
94                  ROXBURGSHSHIRE.

  Of late years there has not been much killing of fish.  The
gentlemen certainly do not coutenance it; neither do they punish
it, unless when the trespassers are brought before them in a Justice
of Peace court.  Indeed, their too scrupulously protecting the fish
in our highland streams would only be conferring a bounty on the
good citizens of Berwick, at the expense of depriving their own
peasantry of a very savoury morsel to their often scanty potato sup-
per on winter evenings.

                            IV.---INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.---The number of acres, im-
perial measure, in the parish, either cultivated or occasionally in
tillage, is about 2000; but a much greater quantity than that has
been formerly cultivated.  The number of acres uncultivated, and
which form the sheep-walks, is very great,---perhaps about 28,000.
All the land that can with a profitable application of capital be cul-
tivated has been so already.  Indeed, it may be questioned whether
a quantity of that at present in tillage might not be more profit-
ably untilled.  The number of acres under plantation is about 550;
and great care is taken in the management of the plantations.
  Rent of Land.---The average rent of arable land is about 15s.
per acre; and the average rate of grazing, at the rate of L.4, or
L.4, 10s. per ox or cow, and 7s. per ewe.
  Rate of Wages.---The daily rate of labour in summer is about
2s. and 2s. 6d., and in winter 1s. 8d. or 1s. 10d.  Women in sum-
mer receive 10d., except in harvest, when their wages are nearly
equal to those of men.  The wages of a ploughman, who receives
his victuals in his master's house, are from L.8 to L.10, 10s., and
those of a servant girl from L.6 to L.7, 10s.
  Stock.---The common breed of cattle is the short-horned; and
the number of cattle, including Highland kyloes, not bred in the
parish, is about 700; of horses, old and young, 130.
  There are about 19,000 sheep in the parish, which produce
about 2800 stones of wool, Troy weight.  The common breeds of
sheep are the Cheviot, more or less crossed with the Leicester ram,
and a few hirsels of the black-faced kind.  Great attention is paid
to their improvement.  It is a very prevalent and profitable custol
to cross the Cheviot ewe with the bred ram.  The mixed offspring
is a very heavy lamb,---much heavier for the English butcher mar-
kets than the pure Cheviot one.  The wool is also much improved
both in weight and quality.  Some farmers have of late years al-
lowed their flocks to go partially unsalved; but the unsalved wool,



