
322                   STIRLINGSHIRE.

was translated to Edinburgh in 1765, and it was not till after
more than seven years' litigation that Mr Thomson from Gargun-
nock was admitted his successor. Mr Finlay of Dollar, who pre-
sided, delivered the celebrated speech for which be bad after-
wards to apologize to the General Assembly. On Mr Thomson's
admission, the great bodv of the people left the church and built
a Relief house, in which there is still a numerous congregation.
   The late Mr Sheriff succeeded Mr Thomson in 1788, and in
October 1823 he resigned his charge, and became pastor to a
Baptist congregation in Glasgow.
   Antiquities.--Tbe Roman road, of which hardly a trace now re-
mains, was unquestionably our most remarkable antiquity. It
entered this parish from the Torwood, and, running in a north-
westerly direction, reached the Forth at Kildean, where was the
wooden bridge and ford already mentioned. From Kildean the
causeway ran westward through the lands of Craigfortb, till near
the present Drip bridge, where there is another ford of the same
depth, two feet, as that at Kildean, and through which the Ro-
man soldiers are supposed frequently to have marched. A branch
struck off from the great road, probably before it reached St Ni-
nians, ran to the west towards Cambusbaron through the farm of
Bearside. The improvements on this farm caused part of it to be
removed within these four or five years, and a few stones, the last
remnants, are still to be seen; but whether this road led to the
ford of Few, or to the Roman station, or the Castle hill above
Touch, is altogether uncertain.
  There are five places in the parish denominated Roman camps,
though it is evident frorn their size they can have been nothing
more than stations. Two of these, with the one at Stirling, would
command a complete view of the Forth, from the place where it be-
comes fordable, till it is covered by the steep and rugged ground be-
hind Gargunnock. These three frontier stations could all commu-
nicate, by signal, with Plean, as Plean could with Torwood-and
Torwood is in view of Camelon and the Roman wall. When
the woods were destroyed, the passage of the Forth by any enemy
could, in a very short time, be communicated to the soldiers guard-
ing the wall. It is more difficult to ascertain the use of the other
camps, one of them being among the rugged rocks, to the west of
Sauchie, and the other not far distant on the low grounds of
Touchgorum.
  The ruins of Sir John de Graham's Castle are near, the westem
                              3


