
			    PARISH OF DURRIS.

		PRESBYTERY OF ABERDEEN, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

      		   THE REV. ROBERT COPLAND, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE ancient name of the parish, according to the ge-
nerally received accounts, was Duires; it is now written Durris,
and sometimes pronounced Dores. The ancient name signifies,
in Gaelic, a mouth or entrance, probably from the parish being a
principal entrance into the Highlands.
	Extent, &c.--The parish extends from east to west about 5 1/4
miles along the south bank of the river Dee, which is its northern
boundary. On the south, it is bounded by the Grampian moun-
tains.
	Topographical Appearances, &c.--Its figure resembles an oblong;
but the length on the south side is at least seven miles; the mean
breadth about three and three-fourth miles. The appearance of
the surface is very irregular. On the river side, there are conside-
rable fields of haugh land, quite level; some of it being very produc-
tive, and some light and sandy. Several acclivities or small hills
then intervene and intercept the prospect, so that the half of the
parish is not visible from any one point in it. The highest hill in
the parish ir Cairnmonearn, one of the Grampians, elevated about
1200 feet above the level of the sea; but several others, as Min-
dernal, Mountgower, and Craigbeg, are near of the same height.
	The temperature of the atmosphere is exceedingly various; the
cold, in some seasons, being much more intense than in others;
and the heat in summer, especially on the river side, very great
arising in some degree from the gravelly nature of the soil.
	Hydrography.--There are several small rivulets in the parish,
but none deserving notice except the Shiach Burn, which often
sends down a great body of water from the Grampians, and after
a course of the greatest rapidity for about twelve miles, falls into
the Dee at the church of Durris. A number of chalybeate springs
are found in different parts of the parish, of various degrees of


