
182                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

fortress was then held by William, eighth Earl of Douglas, who,
in fact, possessed a more unlimited authority over the southern
districts of Scotland than the reigning monarch. The Earl had,
on some pretence, seized and imprisoned a baron, called Maclel-
lan, tutor of Bombie, whom he threatened to bring to trial bx his
power of hereditary jurisdiction. The uncle of this gentleman,
Sir Patrick Grey of Foulis, who commanded the body-guard of
James IL., obtained from that prince a warrant requiring from
Earl Douglas the body of the prisoner. When Grey appeared,
the Earl instantly suspected his errand. "You have not dined,"
said he, without suffering him to open his commission; "it is ill
talking between a full man and a fasting." While Grey was din-
ing, the unfortunate prisoner was, by Douglas's command, led
forth to the court yard and beheaded. When the repast was fi-
nished the King's letter was presented and opened. "Sir Pa-
trick," said Douglas, leading Grey to the court, "right glad had
I been to honour the King's messenger, but you have come too
late; yonder lies your sister's son without the head; you are wel-
come to his dead body," Grey having mounted his horse, turned
to the Earl, and expressed his wrath in a deadly oath, that he
would requite the injury with Douglas's heart's blood. "To
horse!" cried the haughty baron; and the messenger of his prince
was pursued till within a few miles of Edinburgh. Grey, however,
had an opportunity of keeping his vow; for, being upon guard in
the King's antechamber at Stirling when James, incensed at the
insolence of the Earl, struck him with his dagger, Sir Patrick
rushed in, and dispatched him with a poleaxe.
	The Castle of Threave was the last of the fortresses which held
out for the house of Douglas after their grand rebellion in 1453.
James II. writes an account of the exile of this potent family to
Charles VII. of France, dated 8th July 1455, and adds, that all
their castles had been yielded to him except Threave, which, at
the time of his writing, was besieged by the royal troops.*
	Mr Joseph Train of Castle Douglas has in his possession eight
small stone balls, four of them 3 3/4 lbs. each, four about, 1 lb. each,
and a gold ring, which were found in the Castle of Threave in
the summer by 1843 by some labourers whilst clearing away mould
to be used as manure in the adjoining farm of Kelton Mains.

<FOOTNOTE>See Pinkerton's History, Appendix, Vol. i.; note in the Border Minstrelsy to
tHe ballad titled Lord Maxwell's Good Night; and Forsyth's Beauties of Scotland;
from which works the particulars in the text are transcribed.


