
244                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   The parishioners of Inerwick are chiefly enged in agricul-
ture. They, in general, possess a considerable share of the com-
forts and conveniences of life. They are, on the whole, industrious
in their habits, and decent in their outward conduct.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The lower part of the parish, consisting of be-
tween 3000 and 4000 imperial acres, is laid out in corn, pasture,
and wood; and although in the hill-lands, which consist of about
two-thirds of the parish, stock-farming is chiefly practised, even
there several hundred acres are under cultivation. The following
may be taken as a pretty accurate view of the distribution of the
land:-

<TABLE>
           Number of Scots acres in the parish,   -   9300
                                 under tillage,   -   4000
                                 in natural pasture,  5000
                                 under wood,      -    300
There are fifteen farms in the parish, which differ widely in ex-
tent and value.
   Rent of Land.-Towards the end of the eighteenth century,
the rental of this parish was L. 4000. It rose to L. 15,000, but
is now reduced to about L. 9500. The rent of land varies greatly,
according to its quality. Here, as elsewhere, farms have now be-
gun to be let by the fiars.
   Rate of Wages.-The rate of wages for day-labourers is, for
men, 1s. 6d., for women, 10d., a-day. The provision afford-
ed to hinds consists of barley, oats, peas, cow's grass, potatoes,
coals, and lint-money, and amounts in value to about L. 25 per
annum. Eighteen or twenty days' shearing serves as their house
rent.
   Live Stock.-About 5000 sheep are kept on the hill-district of
the parish. These are Cbeviots, black-faced, and a breed be-
tween the two. Those pastured in the lower district are chiefly
of the Leicester breed; and, after being bought in in autumn,
are kept for a year, and then sold off. Some, however, are fed for
a shorter time, at the charge of so much per head. Few black-
cattle are now bred in the parish. Some, however, are bought
in and fattened on turnips, and then sold off.
   Husbandry.-The arable soil of this parish is partly light and
partly a heavy clay. To the latter, a six-shift rotation of crops
is applied; to the former, a five-shift course. The six-shift is the
following:-1. fallow, with manure-in some cases, turnip; 2.


