
                            AYTON.                          131

The parish line of coast is terminated on the south by a rocky bay
accessible from the land by a steep ravine, at the bottom of which
stands the romantic fishing village of Burnmouth, and a remark-
able rock called the Maiden Stone, isolated at high water. It has
probably been separated from the precipice above by the under-
mining influence of the sea. At the northern extremity of the pa-
rish line of coast are two or three small islets, called the Harker
rocks, over which the sea washes, and when impelled by strong
easterly winds, ascends in beautiful sheets of foam to the height of
seventy or a hundred feet.
   Hydrography.-There are two principal streams in this parish,
the Eye and the Ale. The former, the largest of the two, takes
its rise in the Lammermoors, and after flowing in a south-easterly
direction for ten or twelve miles, turns nearly at right angles on
entering the western side of the parish, traversing the parish in the
line of the great central valley in a north-easterly direction, when, for
another mile, it skirts the parish in the same direction, separating it
from that of Eyemouth, and then falls into the sea. On entering the
parish, its velocity is accelerated by the increasing declivity of the
land towards the sea, just to such a degree as to convert it into a
beautifully interesting stream durhng the remainder of its course.
Its windings and sloping banks render the grounds on either side
most desirable for country seats. The scenery of the valley through
which it flows, especially when viewed from Millerton-hill on the
west, presents a magnificent picture, having Ayton House with all
its fine plantations, the picturesque village of Ayton, the manse,
and the church, the beautiful new mansion-house and grounds of
Peelwalls, all in sight, and various mansions and farm-houses in
the distant horizon, with the hill country on the right, and the
mighty ocean, forming the back scene towards the north-east. But
that view is now seldom enjoyed by the traveller, the western ap-
proach to Ayton over Millerton-hill having been changed some
years ago.
   The quantity of water flowing in the Eye may be estimated by
its being able to drive common flour-mills, and even a paper-mill,
except in very dry seasons, when there is a scarcity for these pur-
poses. The other stream, the Ale, has its rise in Coldingbam pa-
rish, takes also a south-easterly course for two or three miles, and
at the northern extremity of the parish, continuing in the same direc-
tion, it forms the north-eastern boundary, which separates Ayton pa-
rish from those of Coldingbarn and Eyemouth to the extent of two
miles, and then it falls into the Eye at a very romantic spot, dis-


