
174                               AYRSHIRE.

                        III.--POPULATION.
	According to Dr Webster's report, the population of the unit-
ed parish, including Newton, amounted in 1755 to 1163; and as
the population of Newton in 1779 amounted to between 800 and
900, the separate population of Monkton and Prestwick, in 1755,
could not be more than 400. The subsequent increase, to the
present amount of 1818, is to be attributed partly to the improve-
ment in the system of agriculture, and the increased expenditure
of labour and capital upon the soil; and partly, and perhaps in a
greater degree, to the increase of the cotton manufactures, and
the influx of Irish weavers employed in them, into the parish.
	The number of inhabitants residing in the country is 346; in
the three villages of Monkton, Prestwick, and Prestwick Toll;
there being 376 in Monkton; 758 in Prestwick; and 327 in
Prestwick Toll.
	There are only two gentlemen of independent fortune resident
in the parish, viz. Mr Reid of Adamton, and Mr Campbell of
Fairfield, both beritors in the parish.
        There are in the parish ten separate properties of the annual
value of L. 50 and upwards.

Number of families in the parish,	       	        382
	chiefly employed in agriculture,	         98
         trade, manufacture, and handicraft,         209

	The number of illegitimate births in the parish during the last
three years, as nearly as can be ascertained, was 14.

			IV.--INDUSTRY

	Agriculture.--The number of acres, Scotch measure, in the pa-

now be specified. As the foundation charter of this hospital does not exist, it cannot
be ascertained what number of persons were originally maintained in it. It appears,
however, to have been governed by a guardian, or prior, and it had a chaplain. In
the reign of James II., Wallace of Newton acquired the lands of Spitul Sheles, which
belonged to this hospital, as the name implies, and the hereditary office of keeper, or
governor of the hospital, and of the lands belonging to it. In January 1515-16, all
these were resigned by Hugh Wallace of Newton, in favour of his brother Adam.
After the whole property of this hospital was thus granted away, the only revenue
that remained to it was the feu-duties, payable from the land, in this manner grant-
ed in fee-farm; and these, amounting to 64 bolls of meal and 8 merks Scots of money,
with sixteen threaves of straw for thatching the hospital, are still paid. For more
than two centuries past, this diminished revenue has been shared among eight objects
of charity, in equal shares of eight bolls of meal, and one merk Scotch to each. The
leprosy having long disappeared, the persons who are now admitted to the benefit of
this charity, are such as labour under diseases which are considered incurable, or such
as are in indigent circumstances. The right of appointing these belonged to the
family of Wallace of Craigie for a long time, and was purchased about 1790 (in 1787)
by the burgh of Ayr, which still holds this patronage. The old hospital, which exist-
ed in the 'better days of this charity, has been long in ruins.' In the description of
Kyle, by Robert Gordon, in th reign of Charles I., he mentions the chapel of this
establisbmenf; and says, that the persons admitted to the charity were then lodged
in huts, or cottege in the vicinity."


