
                             AYTON.                           139

lees. Here there is neither mansion nor farm-house, but a pretty
good set of offices, and a thrashing-mill driven by water. Here,
too, there is reason to suspect that smuggling had been carried on
in former times. There is on this property a place called Catch-a-
penny, well adapted for that purpose by its retired situation on the
edge of the adjoining moor, and immediately above Burnmouth.
It was probably so named or nick-named for its receiving a share
of the booty. *
   Ascending the hill from Greystonlees, we come next to Chester-
bank, a smaller property, with a good, but rather ancient farm-house
and with offices. The view from this spot is very grand, present-
ing another aspect of the valley beneath, which was formerly de-
scribed; and in the distance, the Lammermoor hills, with St Abb's
rearing its venerable head above the ocean.
   Besides the camps already noticed, there appears to have been
another on the high grounds above Chesterbank; and one is stated
in the former Statistical Account to have stood on the north side
of the parish. Spear heads are said to have been dug up at Red-
all and other parts of the parish; and not many years ago there
was turned up during the operation of trench-ploughing, on the
farm of Prender guest, a small millstone, supposed to have belong-
ed to the hand-mills of the Romans.-A curious stone with an in-
scription was also discovered at Gunsgreen, and a drawing thereof
was sent to the Edinburgh Antiquarian Society, but no explanation
has yet been obtained.
   Parochial Registers.-The history of the parochial registers is
very imperfect. Those of births and baptisms, the only ones for-
merly kept, go no farther back than 1743, and even after that pe-
riod they seem not to have been regularly kept until about 1770.
They are by no means voluminous even at this day. No other
register has been regularly kept.
                   <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
   In 1741, the population did not exceed 640. This number was
divided equally between the village of Ayton and the landward part
of the parish. In 1821, it had arisen to 1481; and in 1831, when
the last census was taken, to 1680, viz. 663 in the village, and
1017 in the rest of the parish. It is believed that the yearly ave-
rage of births bears the usual proportion to the above numbers:
but it cannot be easily or precisely ascertained from documents,

<FOOTNOTE>There was a common saying at Eye mouth, when any strange sail was seen in the
offing at night, and disappeared, that "she had gone round to Catch a penny."


