
148                      BERWICKSHIRE.

passes to any of the eastern counties of Scotland, they are moved
forward at the expense of this county. But when, as often hap-
pens, either from carelessness, or the intentional mistake of people
interested in transporting them, they are sent down by the east
instead of the west road, this county refuses to be at any expense
in their further conveyance. So, from pure humanity and dire ne-
cessity, the parish of Ayton must remove the most helpless of them,
else they might: lie and die in our streets. Besides these, there is
now a vast number of travelling poor, a great proportion of whom
are Irish, passing north and south daily and hourly on this road,
who beset the manse and schoolmaster's house sometimes in for-
midable bands, conceiving they have a legal claim for aid by
the way. Many Of these are evidently labouring under disease,
sickness, and want,-requiring both relief and medical assist-
ance. Such persons occasionally die here, and are buried at
the expense of the parish, and sometimes leave to it as a legacy a
destitute orphan, whose proper parish cannot be found. There
ought to be a joint fund among all the parishes of each county, more
especially of this border county, where the evil is greatest, to defray
such expenses, and not to suffer the burden to lie upon those pa-
rishes whose particular locality exposes them to such a hardship.
This multitude of travelling poor indicates the depressed state of
the country at large, and it need scarcely be asked, "whether there
is any disposition among the poor to refrain from seeking parochial
relief, and whether they consider it degrading." In this neigh-
bourhood, as well as in most other parts of the low country at least,
the pride of independence has become almost extinct.
   Loch-up-house, &c.-Some years ago a lock-up-house was built
in the village, which is occasionally occupied for a night by unruly
vagrants and others. They are generally dismissed in the morn-
ing. But there would be fewer calls for this accommodation if
there were fewer accommodations of a different description for the
thoughtless and intemperate. In this parish there are no less
than nine public houses, whereas at most, one or two respectable
inns would be quite sufficient for all the purposes of travelling or
business. The combined effects of so many facilities for drinking
are anything but favourable to the morals of the people.
   Fuel.-Coals are supplied to this parish in abundance both by
sea and land. Forth and Newcastle coals come in at Eyemouth,
and are sold out of the ship at 10s. and 12s. per ton, and may be
carted to Ayton for a couple of shillings more. They may also be
brought by land from the other side of the Tweed at nearly the


