
            COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                   315

those Dissenting ministers who now advocate so boldly and confi-
dently, the voluntary scheme, would be somewhat mortified, as
well as surprised, if they were to take the sense of their congrega-
tions on this important question. Divine service, we are happy to
state, is generally very well attended, both at church and meeting.
   Education.-There are three schools in the parish, the paro-
chial school, a school, supported by subscription in the village of
Cockburnspath, and an endowed school in the district of Old Cam-
bus. In the parochial school, which is ably conducted, the bran-
ches generally taught are, English reading, English grammar, writ-
ing, arithmetic, book-keeping, Latin, and practical mathematics;
sometimes also Greek, French, geography, and the theory of ma-
thematics. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L, 30, and
the yearly average amount of school fees for the last, ten years is
L. 45. This sum, however, is never completely realized on ac-
count of bad payments. The yearly season for teaching continues
for three quarters and a-half, each thirteen weeks, and the expense
of attendance during that time is, for English reading, 10s. 6d.;
writing, 14s.; arithmetic, 17s. 6d.; Latin, L. 1, 6s. 3d. The ave-
rage annual number of scholars is 90. The schoolhouse is good,
but the dwelling-house is very uncomfortable. Repairs, however,
have been ordered, and are to be proceeded with immediately.
The branches taught in the other two schools are nearly similar to
those in the parochial.-The average number attending the sub-
scription school is 30, attending the Old Cambus school, 4,5.
This last school, which is also well taught, has a salary attached
to it of 8 bolls of oats, and L. 13 of money, with a free house.
The number of children under five years of age who are now learn-
ing to read is, of males, 7; of females, 5: total, 12. Of children
between five and fifteen, now learning to read, the number is of
males, 116; of females, 60; total, 176. Of children between five
and fifteen years of age, now learning to write, the number is, of
males, 75; of females, 30; total, 105. One or two old people can
neither read nor write: but, as will be seen from the foregoing
statement, the inhabitants of this district seem on the whole to be
very much alive to the benefits of education, while scarcely any
part of the parish can be said to be so distant as to prevent attend-
ance at school.
   Literature.-A subscription library has been in existence in the
parish about twelve years, and is at present in a thriving condi-


