
                          MORVERN.                           177

riod.  There are yet standing, in all the maturity of age, trees,
with which the Episcopal clergyman, before the introduction of
the Presbyterian form of worship, adorned his residence; and
there is at Ach-a-charn an avenue of trees, of size and height
sufficient to quiet any desponding fears which the proprietors of
modern times may entertain as to the fate of the several planta-
tions by which their respective properties have of late been taste-
fully ornamented.  The avenue referred to, consisting chiefly of
lime and plane trees, was planted about 150 years ago by Mr Ca-
meron of Glen Dessary, the then proprietor of this picturesque
property.  He resided at Ach-a-charn, and occupied a house of
very peculiar construction ; formed of oak beams placed at regular
distances; the intervening spaces being closely interwoven with
wicker-work.  The outside was wholly covered with heath, and
the interior was divided into several apartments, and finished in a
style of taste and elegance corresponding with the enlightened
refinement of the occupants.
   The trees seemingly best adapted to the soil and climate ap-
pear to be the plane, larch, ash, and oak.  Strange to say, the
Scotch fir, an indigenous tree, a specimen of which grows on one
of the loftiest pinnacles overhanging the Linnhe Loch, and which,
for many years, has afforded protection to an eagle nestling with
great good taste among its branches, is not found to thrive.
Firs, no doubt, have been sometimes injudiciously planted, being
mixed with quick growing larches ; or, from a mistaken idea of
their hardihood, placed in situations too exposed for plants so top-
heavy;' but, to the dry and parching winds of March, the failure
of this tree is to be mainly attributed.
   On the estate of Drimnin, there is a very peculiar specimen
of the weeping ash, a description and drawidg of which have been
sent to Mr Loudon, and which have appeared, or are about to
appear, in one of the interesting publications of that enthusiastic
arborist.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Morvern undoubtedly formed part of the dominions of Somer-
led, well known in Highland tradition as Somhairle-Machd. Gille-
Bbride, and in history as Thane of Argyle, and was, it is believed,
the first portion of the confessedly extensive, but somewhat unde-
fined possessions of his ancestors, which he regained from the ra-
pacious Norsemen.
   The circumtances connected with this event are, by tradition,
   ARGYLE.                                     M


