
128                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

rious grievance when the former Statistical Account was written,
is now falling gradually into disuse.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish on an average of the last seven years, so far as it can'be
ascertained, is as follows:-

<TABLE>
     Oats, 3968 bolls, at L.1, 0s. 6d. per boll,     .      .  L. 4067  4 0
     Bear, with fodder, 654 bolls, at L.1, 4s.    .      .     .   784 16 0
     Turnips, 269 acres, at L.4, 10s. per acre,    .    .     .   1210 10 0
     Potatoes, 44 acres, at L.9 per acre,     .        .       .   396  0 0
     Hay, 24,000 stones, at 6d. per stone,       .     .      .    600  0 0
     Pasture, 786 acres, 18s. per acre,         .     .      .     707  8 0
                                                               -------------
                                                               L. 7765 15 0
     The value of the quarries cannot be ascertained.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-Aberdeen, distant from six to eight miles, is the
ndarest market-town.
   Means of Communication.-The turnpike from Aberdeen to In-
verness, or great north road, forms the boundary of the parish on
the west for a distance of two miles.  The turnpike from Aber-
deen to Banff crosses it near the other extremity, where it is scarce-
ly a mile in breadth. *  The canal from Aberdeen to Inverury also
passes through this parish.  This canal is believed to be a very in-
different speculation in respect to profit, but is found exceedingly
convenient by those living near it, for the conveyance of coals
and lime at a reasonable rate.  Passage boats also ply from Aber-
deen to Inverury twice a-day during the summer.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated at the northern ex-
tremity of the parish, on a rocky promontory formed by a winding
of the river Don, and commanding a view of the rich valley of
that river for upwards of twenty miles, until its course be lost
among the range of hills that rise in the Highland district of Al-
ford.  It is an ancient building, and from its iron cross still left on
the east end, and its carved stone work on the gables, we may sup-
pose it to have been built a considerable time prior to the Refor-
mation.  It has frequently been altered and repaired, but is still
in a very insufficient state, and hardly adequate for the accommo-
dation of the incre`sdd population of the parish.
   The manse and offices were rebuilt about ten years ago, and the

<FOOTNOTE>The Bridge of Dyce, on the road from Aberdeen to Banff, was erected by Mr
Burn of Haddmgton.  It is a wooden arch, of above 100 feet span, resting upon two
abutments or land-breasts of good masonry.  The framing, as seen in the intrados of
the arch, display sound judgment, united to great mechanical skill.  The architect
(it may be remarked) preferred for the workmanship of this bridge, the natural wood
of Braemar, in this county, to Baltic timber. Its light and elegant outline adds
greatly to the effect of the fine river scenery.


