
			CARSTAIRS.			       551

tion of the soil, and to the practised eye becomes no bad index of
what is underneath the surface. The sand of which the knolls are
composed is very loose. Some years ago, two workmen, employ-
ed in sinking a well at the farm-steading of Hills, were overwhelm-
ed by the bursting of the sides, when they had reached the depth
of twenty-two feet. It was the Saturday previous to the winter com-
munion. The bell of the village church being tolled as soon as the
alarm was given, a large body of active fellows turned out, and, by
dint of exertion, dug out the poor men, who were both alive, though
twelve or thirteen hours had elapsed before they were reached.
One of them recovered perfectly, and the other would have done
so too, had he not received injuries from the fall of a portion of the
wooden fraume-work which had been employed to prop the bank.
He died in the course of the Sabbath.
	Zoology and Botany.--No animal of a peculiar character haunts
the parish. Herons are found on the Clyde and the Mouse. The
lapwing, a clamorous bird, frequents the moors and marshy spots,
annoying the passenger in every direction. Rooks formerly fre-
quented the woods around Carstairs House, but, getting too nume-
rous the inhabitants rose " en masse," killed and extirpated them
some years since. Many attempts have been made to build nests
by crows, probably young ones, who were ignorant of the bad usage
of former times, but every such attempt has been rendered abor-
tive, by the attacks of older birds, who seem determined to oppose
the restoration of the rookery. Both the Clyde and the Mouse af-
ford excellent sport for the angler, and in the former, trouts of
several pounds weight are often taken. Pike are to be found in
the deep pools, and in the old channel of the Clyde at West-
bank. But Stonebyres Fall, several miles below, is the " ne plus
ultra" of salmon.
	Some of the rarer species of plants have been found, and such
as are peculiar to mossy tracts are abundant. Neither bramble
nor sloe is to be found in the parish. Plants varying with the soil,
it is presumed that, from the variety, of soils to be found within
the compass of the parish, its vegetable productions are no less di-
versified.
	Woods and Plantations.--The proprietor of Carstairs estate has
done much to beautify and improve it, by laying out new planta-
tions in favourable spots. Still a greater extent of wood would be
favourable to the climate, and desirable to the eye. The north-
eastern district of the parish, through which the Mouse flows, is


