
708                       PERTHSHIRE.

     3. Sir Alexander de Meyners, Knight, was one of the patriots
who stood firm to the interests of their country against the oppres-
sions of Edward I. of England, for which he was imprisoned by
that Monarch. He is specially stated to have got the lands of
Weem and Aberfeldy, in vice de Perth; and as he signed as wit-
ness to a charter by Robert I. before the Marischal of Scotland,
it may be inferred from this Preference that he then held a pub-
lic place of considerable rank.
     4. Sir Robert de Meyners, in his father's lifetime, got several
lands in the Abathnage or Lordship of Dull, from Robert de
Bruce, besides Cranach, as already described, with Edramuckie
and Morinch in Deserver, also explained.
     5. John succeeded his father, Sir Robert.
     6. Robert de Meyners must have had great influence With the
sovereign, as he got charters of several lands in Dumfries, Edin-
burgh, Lanark, and Fifeshires, from Robert II.
     7. Sir David de Meyners succeeded his father.  He was one of
the hostages for King James I.'s ransom, was employed in seve-
ral embassies to the Court of Denmark, and made Governor of
the Orkneys, then belonging to the King of Denmark. He after-
wards became " a monk of the Sestertian order in the monastery
of Melross," and made many extensive and valuable donations of
land to religious houses.
      8. John de Meyners succeeded his father, Sir David.
      9. Sir Robert succeeded his father.in 1487. " It was in his
time that the mansion-house of the family was burnt, which in-
duced the sovereign to give him a new grant of his whole lands
and estate, and to erect all of them into a free barony, to be cal-
led the barony of Menzies." Roro, in Glenlyon, also belonged
to him.
     10. Sir Robert succeeded his father in 1520.
     11. Sir Alexander succeeded his father, Sir Robert, in 1557.
     12, James succeeded Alexander, his father.
     13. Sir Alexander succeeded-his father James in 1588,
     14. Duncan succeeded his father in 1624.
     15. Sir Alexander succeeded his father Duncan, and was created
a Knight-Baronet, 2d September 1665.  His eldest son, Robert,
who predeceased him, married the eldest grand-daughter of Vis-
count Canadat, and the issue of that marriage are said to be the
heirs of the territorial possessions of the first Earl of Stirling, and
of the hereditary lieutenantship of Nova Scotia. His second son,


