
        58              INVERNESS-SHIRE.

come. more generally known within the last three-and-thirty years.
Within the last few years a striking improvement has taken place
in the dress of the peasantry. About fifteen years ago, some va-
grant preachers began to make their appearance in the parish.
Elated with their supposed attainments in heavenly knowledge and
grace, they undervalued the ministrations of the established pastor,
and endeavoured to mislead the people. *
                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-There is no undivided common in the parish; but,
as there are few enclosures, there are frequent trespasses by cattle
and sheep, throughout the winter and spring.
  The trees indigdnous to the parish are, the oak, fir, ash, birch,
mountain-ash, poplar. There is hazel, but it is never allowed to
come to any beneficial size.
  Rent of Land.-The annual rent of sheep grass is from 2s. 6d.
to 3s. per acre, which is by far too high, considering the price of the
product for some years past. Killin is the most valuable grazing;
and if the limits of this account permitted, the writer would be
tempted to essay a description of this charming dell.
   Rate of Wages.-The demand for labour beyond what the year-
ly hired servants perform, is of rare occurrence. Where there is oc-
casion for additional hands for ordinary work, the rate is from 9d.
to Is. per day, with victuals; reapers get Is. ; mowers Is. 6d.; ma-
sons, 2s. with provisions.
   Husbandry.-From the nature of the land, husbandry is prac-
tised in a very limited degree; but, as far as circumstances permit,
it is conducted as in the low country. The mountain torrents fre-
quently encroach on the arable ground, and commit great injury;
for unfortunately no embankments have been made to ward off the
damage.
  A few respectable tenants have commodious and well-construct-

<FOOTNOTE>A tradition, illustrate of the superstitions of the county, has been handed down
from one generation to another,-that one of those persons favoured with the superna-
tural gift of convevinying the milk of their neighbours' cattle to their own, a native of
Strathherric, had gone to the adjoining country of Badenoch, with the view of practising
his art in favour of his own country generally, and succeeded so far as to be able to confine
the Badenoch milk in a withe, which he carried across the hill of Monadhiiath to
the height of Killin, where it burst (in virtue, perhaps, of a counter spell by the bereaved
country,) and overflowed that delightful plain,-which has been the cause of the
richness of its pasture, and of the superior quality and quantity of milk it produces.
The good effects of this untoward accident were not circumscribed to the dell of Kil-
lin, for some of its streamlets kindly glided down to Strathherric, which accounts
for the reputation, and deserved reputation, of the excellence of the milk, cream, and
butter in that district.

StAS.2.14.59.P.Inverness.Boleskine_and_Avertarff>

                    BOLESKINE AND ABERTARFF.                          59

ed farm buildings, and their arable ground partially enclosed; but
in general there are riot many enclosures in the parish.
No improvements deserving notice have recently been made;
nor does the mountainous nature of the country admit of extended
melioration, otherwise than by planting, which would interfere with
the pasture of the sheep, and consequently reduce the current rents,
-though at the distance of eighty years hence these would be
considerably augmented.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.- There are upwards of 30,000 sheep in the
parish, almost all of the Cheviot breed. Though the carcase does
not grow to a very extraordinary size, the wool is esteemed of
superior quality, and has always fetched the highest price at mar-
ket. Most of it is sold to woolstaplers in the north of England, and
the wedders and sheep are generally purchased by south country
storemasters, who frequent the great annual sheep and wool fair at
Inverness; but sometimes they are sent by the breeders to the Fal-
kirk September or October tryst, in expectation of getting a bet-
ter price than what they had previously been offered in the country.
If disappointed, they must dispose of them at a reduced price, or win-
ter them in the south, which increases the expense, and eventually
diminishes the gain, or drive them to England, which places them
still more at the mercy of the buyer.
  The parish being better calculated for sheep than for any other
stock, there is comparatively little attention paid to the rearing of
otherstock. A few gentlemen,however, are careful in procuring the
breed of genuine Highland cattle, and there is of late years an evi-
dent disposition to improve the race of horses, by crossing the na-
tive breed with the south country draught horse.
  Goats would prosper here, but would not remunerate; and sheep-
farmers are universally hostile to a mixed stock.
  Fisheries.-There is only one small salmon fishery in the parish,
which rents at L. 30 a-year.
  Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised:

    Produce of grain of all kinds,	                   L.2262	0	0
               potatoes,   	                             1334	0	0
               hay,	                                      567	0	0
               turnips,	                                      150	0	0
                                                            _______________________
                                                           L. 4313	0	0

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

Inverness, distant twenty-one miles from the manse, is the nearest
town to the parish.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office at Fort-Au-


