

                           KILMARONOCK.                   213

ly all covered with soil, and the bare rock appears only in a
very few places. It is now the property of the Duke of Mon-
trose, and is covered. with young oak, larches, &c. having been
planted a few years ago by the late Duke. The body of the
hill seems to be chiefly composed of a kind of trap rock, which is
rendered softish by exposure to the action of the atmosphere;
while, in the rest of the parish, with the exception of some trap
dikes (running from south-west to north-east,) and limestone,
the rock is composed of a red or grey sandstone of a very
solid and compacted grain. From the top of this hill, there
is also a ve fine view to be had of almost the whole parish,
and all the objects seen from Mount Misery, with a very few
exceptions. The third elevation that remains to be noticed, is
that toward Dumbarton moor. This rises to a height considera-
bly greater than any of the other two. Some good limestone has
been found in this moor ; and there is also a cascade of conside-
rable size and beauty in the glen which runs northward through
the farm of Gallengad. This moor has been rendered notorious
for some time by means of a dispute which arose between the ma-
gistrates of the burgh of Dumbarton, and some proprietors in Kil-
maronock, respecting the marches between their properties. The
matter was litigated for about seventy years, and various decisions
were given with regard to it in courts of law; but it was lately
brought to a final decision by Mr Alison, Sheriff of Lanarkshire,
to whom the matter was referred, and to whose judgment all par-
ties agreed to submit. In the hollow part which lies between this
moor and Duncryne Hill, there are a few farms containing Pretty
good land; but the greater part is of inferior quality. There is
also in it a large extent of peat-moss stretching from south-west
to north-east, and containing nearly 100 acres. This is so soft
and deep, that a great part of it has been hitherto considered unfit
for cultivation.
   Hydrography.--From Drymen Bridge to where the river En-
drick runs into Lochlomond, the distance is scarcely four miles in
a straight line; but by following its numerous windings, the dis-
tance is nearly doubled. It thus flows sluggishly along its mazy
course, there being only about ten feet of rise from the level of
Lochlomond, when the lake is at its ordinary height, to about 100
yards below Drymen Bridge. It is navigable at times for scows or
other flat-bottomed craft, for all this distance: and coals are thus
conveyed up, and wood or other commodities dows the river, and


