
60                              BUTESHIRE.

of the latter might be profitably brought under cultivation, has, not
been exactly ascertained, but it is evident that it can only be a
very small fractional part. Nearly the whole of this tract was, till
within the last twentv-five years, in a state of undivided common,
to which all persons, be they cottar or farmer, might send as many
sheep and yeld cattle as they chose. Hence it sometimes hap-
pened, that the cottar had more stock on the hill than the farmer
who paid ten times his rent, and always, that both had upon it
nearly as many times more than it could feed in summer, or they
could fodder in winter. In these circumstances, no attention could
be paid to rearing, and the conrequence necessarily was, that both
sheep and cattle were diminutive and ill-shaped. Of late, the hill,
as, well as the arable ground, has been divided and appropriated,
and the effect upon the stock has been most beneficial.
	Within the period above-mentioned, there has been the most
marked improvement upon the dwellings, offices, mode and im-
plements of husbandry, together with skill in the art, and beauty
in the workmanship.
	Formerly the dwellings and offices formed an irregular cluster,
or hamlet, built generally of dry stones, pointed with mortar. The
dwelling-house consisted of two apartments, the uppermost being
the best, and lower the kitechen. Both formed one end of range,
of which the byre formed the other, and a door in the middle was
common to the inmates of both. Between them, however, there
was a partition of wicker-work, plastered with mortar, and white-
washed. The thatch was either of heather. or of fern, or of both, in
alternate Iayers, very coarsely put on, and secured by heather
ropes, laid across and athwart, kept tight by stones sus-
pended to their ends, at the eaves.  There were no vents.  The
fire was upon a stone in the centre of the apartment, and the
smoke was allowed to make the best of its way by the door, the
window, and an aparture for the purpose in the ridge of the roof.
The offices, which were either attached, or contiguous to this prin-
cipal range, were of the same materials and construction; and it
is obvious that neither could be very durable or comfortable.
	All the lands were undivided, and unenclosed. Each farm was
leased by a number of undivided, and unenclosed.  Each farm was
leased by a number of individuals, sometimes by as many as ten
and fifteen, who were jointly and severally liable for the rent.  Each
farm was thus a societor arandi, or township, containing as many
families, having each an equal interest its cultivation, each field
being subdivided into as many stripes, separated by a narrow ridge,

                                  8

