
	               STRAITON.                           341

the time of year, and the demand, but those employed constantly
have been paid for the last twelve years 9s. weekly in summer, and
8s. weekly in winter. The shepherds are paid chiefly by certain
privileges, which vary in value, and which are usually believed to
secure them more comfort than a labourer can enjoy. The wages
of the colliers are on an average 18s., and are at present above a
guinea a week when they are fully employed. Many children are
occupied in summer among the turnip fields, who are paid 4s.
weekly, and whose health is rather improved by a few months of
rural labour. Since this system began, the parish school has been
fuller in winter, parents being better enabled to have their children
educated.
	Live-Stock, &c.--The Galloway cows, which formerly were kept
by almost all the farmers, have given place in a great measure to
the Ayrshire breed; although the bulls are still often Galloways,
that the stock may answer the English market. The sheep are
nearly all of the black-faced kind, but the Cheviot have been lately
introduced, and if the high prices of wool continue, will probably
extend over the district.
	The spirit of improvement in husbandry has been in great ac-
tivity for twenty years. It began on the lands around Blairquhan,
was afterwards extended to the farms in the valley, particularly
Dalmorton, and has of late reached the lands near Berbeth, and
the farm of Grimmet on the Doon. The cultivation of turnips is
rapidly extending along the banks of the Girvan, the dry gravelly
soil being favourable to this crop. Wheat is sown to some extent,
and one field has been at great expense prepared for irrigation.
Bone manure has been used for ten years, and is found particular-
ly suitable in those fields in which there is a great declivity. Sur-
face draining has been carried on extensively on the pasture lands;
and common stone-draining on the arable lands. Of late tyle-
draining has been introduced, and would be prosecuted on a larger
scale, could a clay bed for the manufacture be found.
	The leases are usually for nineteen years. Most of the farmers
have comfortable houses two storeys high, and suitable buildings
for their cattle, all slated and finished in a neat and substantial
manner. The greater part of the farm-houses, indeed, have been
rebuilt within the last fifteen ears, and the appearance of the val-
ley of the Girvan, from neat houses, and good cultivation, and na-
tural beauty, is rarely equalled.


