
                                   REDGORTON.                             185

        are disposed of to make way for a new stock.  This system re-
        quires the land to be retained for three years in grass, which makes
        what is called the six courre shift, and is followed with great ad-
        vantao,e by the best farmers. - There are some, however, that still
        pursue the older practice of keeping their land only one year in
        grass, and thus taking a white crop every alternate year; which
        brings the rotation of crops so quickly round, and thereby so tires
        the land, that speaking in general, there is not more grain rais-
        ed on a farm by the four than by the six course shift.
          Potatoe Crop. -The principal dependence of the farmer in this
        parish, as in the rest of this county, is on their crop of potatoes.
        The Perthshire reds have for a number of years held a high cha-
        racter in the London market.  The price, however, has been
        very fluctuating, having varied from 7s. to 15s. per boll of eighteen
        stones.  An average crop on tolerably good ground may vary from
        30 to 40 bolls per acre.   So that a crop of potatoes is more valu-
        able than any crop the farmers can raise; and it is only from this
        circumstance that they have been enabled for a number of years
        past to pay their rent.  But unfortunately a great failure has
        taken place, very generally, in this crop, for several years, from a
        defect of vegetation in the sets planted.  In some cases tijir'fail-
        ure has extended to half the crop; and in some, it has been so
        complete, that the whole has been ploughed up.  Wherever agri-
        culture is treated of, a short statement of the causes and remedies
        of a failure, which is of such vast importance to the community at
        large, and of such transcendent interest in the rural economy of
        this great county, cannot be misplaced.  Having paid some at-
        tention to this subject, I may state verx shortly some considera-
        tions, which could be easily established by referring to what has
        occurred in the practice of various agriculturists.
           There are two classes of causes which must be taken into view,
        to account for this failure, and for all the phenomena which have
        occurred with respect to it.  The first of these may be nomi-
        nated the remote cause; the second the proximate causes.
           The remote or primary cause appears to be a failure in the ve-
        getative power of the potatoes arising frnm its acre; or the length
        of time that it has been planted since it was raised from seed.
           The potatoe cultivated in Perthshire has been in existence for
        perhaps sixty years.  It is not certainly so long since it came into
        general use.  But its age is to be determined by the number of
        years that it has been planted, and not in any measure by the, ex-


