
216                           BANFFSHIRE.

   There is no doubt that Grange was anciently covered with wood.
In the extensive peat mosses, are found imbedded roots and trunks
of fir and oak, chiefly of fir, vast quantities of which are cast out
in the preparation of fuel. There are now large tracts of young
wood on Lord Fife's estates; and perhaps from fifty to sixty acres
on the estate of Sir James Innes, Bart. of Ediogight.
   This parish is now generally under cultivation-even the mossy
and heathy hill of Aulmore is rapidly creeping under the plough.
This hill is studded far and wide with the cottages of the poor; but
much of the lower lands has been cultivated with industry and skill.
There is a great extent of excellent soil in the parish; much,
however, which no tillage will ever make good. The clayey and
hard till subsoils prevail much, and are much complained of. The
climate, in general, and particularly on the Davoch of Granoe, is
healthy and bracing.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Grange was feued out into small lairdships, upon the appear-
ance of the Reformation, by the then abbot of Kinloss, and was
thus put into the hands of a great number of small proprietors. In
the course of years, the number diminished, as the wealth of some,
and the wants of others, increased. It is said of Alexander Duff
of Braco, Lord Fife's ancestor, one of the more cautious and eco-
nomical of the feuars, that, as he was standing on the hillside at
his residence of Braco, and seeing many of the laird's chimneys
smoking around him, be remarked to a bystander, that he would
make the smoke of these houses all go through one vent by and
bye; and he nearly accomplished his purpose, as four fifths of the
whole are now in the hands of his descendants. Edingight, how-
ever, still remains in the hands of the family of the original feuar,
and the remainder is in the possession of the Earl of Seafield.
   It is recorded that there were some battles fought in the parish
between the Scots and the Danes, when the Danes landed at Cul-
len, in the reign of Donald III.

                <TABLE=III-POPULATION>
   Amount of population in 1811,           1510
                           1821,           1482
                           1831,           1492
                           1841,           1661

   There is one resident family in the parish, that of Sir James
Innes, Bart. of Balveny and Edingight. The people are, in ge-
neral, moral and exemplary, and attentive to their religious duties.
                                 3


