
446                         PORPARSHIRE.

part of an old building, called the castle of Clova, still remains.
Inside the wall which is standing, there are some steps of a stair.
The wall is upwards of 25 feet in height, and more than 4 feet
thick, and the cement of lime with which it has been built is as
bard as the stones which it keeps together. No proper account
of its history is known. The traditionary report is, that it was de-
stroyed in the time of Oliver Cromwell. From the site of the ruins
there is an extensive view of the valley, and of the sides of the
surrounding mountains. Abott 200 yards to the north of the
church of Clova there was a mansion-house, where the proprietor
of Clova occasionally resided. It has been completely removed.
The boundary of the garden, which was connected with it, is mark-
ed out by a row of fine old trees by which the grounds is surround.
ed.
        Manasion-house.-The only mansion-house in the united parish
is the Castle of Cortachy, which has been long a favourite place
of residence for the Noble family of Airlie. It is placed in a low
and beautiful situation on the south side of the river Esk, and to-
wards the southern extremity of Cartachy. It is not ascertained
when, by whom, or for what purpose the castle was originally built.
A portion of it bears the marks of great antiquity. Additions have
been made to it at different times; the latest, and one of the largest
of these, was made in 1820-21, which has tended greatly to its
convenience and ornament. It is a magnificent building, and af-
fords ample accommodation for a large establishment. The pub-
lic rooms of the castle contain many excellent paintings; also many
fine portraits. Among these, several portraits of former and pre-
sent members of the noble family.
        Modern Buildings.-These are the church of Cortachy, some
farm-houses, somefarm-steadings, two corn-mills, and several very
neat cottages. The houses are built of stone and lime, and co-
vered with blue slates.
	In addition, to the above buildings, there is a finely-built ceme-
tery, belonging to the Noble family of Airlie, adjoining the church
of Cortachy, which was erected at the same time that the present
church was built, the family burying-ground being inside the for-
mer church. In this cemetery, the bodies of several of the departed
members of the family have been interred. Amongst others, Da-
vid, fifth Earl of Airlie; Walter, sixth Earl of Airlie; also Jane,
his, countess, who died on the 11th of June 1818, aged 56; and
also Clementina, late Countess of Airlie, whose memory will be


