
162                        ARGYLESHIRE.

The greater part of these bequests has been now expended. Ap-
plications for parochial relief are seldom, if ever, made, except on
good ground.
   Fairs.-Of these there are two ; one holds at Strontian in May
and in October as a market for cattle and sheep, and is attended
by the people of Morven and Kilmalie, as well as those of the
parish.  Another holds at Arasaig at such times as those correspond
with, and not to interfere with that of Strontian, and is also a
sheep and cattle market.  Formerly there were several small fairs,
called Fanks in the parish, which the principal cattle-dealers
never attended, as they frequent those of Strontian and Arasaig.
The abolition of the small markets has been beneficial.
   Inns.-There are three good inns situated at Strontian, Ara-
saig, and Glenfinnan, and four of an inferior description at other
places.  Of most of the latter, the best that can be said is that
they arenecessary evils.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Were the writer of the last Statistical Account to revisit his pa.
rish, what, perhaps, would most forcibly arrest his attention in the
external surface of the country, would be the plantations of forest
trees, and improved fields of moss below the range of the sheep
walks, contrasted with extensive tracts of outfield arable relapsing
into their original barrenness, in consequence of being included in
these pastures.  He would be not less struck with changes in its
social aspect, the absence of congenial society for himself, of the
beneficial influence of superior knowledge and station in the elder-
ship; and the shopping of the link which connected the great
landed proprietors with the mass of the people, arising from the
almost total disappearance of the gentlemen tacksmen. He would
be gratified by observing certain improvements in industry and
agriculture, but would be astonished to find far less command of
money, and far less of the comforts of life throughout the parish
at large.  He would view with unmingled satisfaction the govern-
ment churches, the four Assembly schools, the three catechist,
and the synod schoolmaster, the total transfer from himself of the
responsibility as well as labour of extensive districts, to ableand
efficient brethren, the ordinances of the gospel administered in
churches, instead of, as in his day, and long afterwards in the mis-
sionary districts now parishes, under the shelter of a rocks, in a
barn or a hovel; the successful diffusion of intellectual and scrip-
tural eduation in so many formerly destitute localities.  He would
find religious knowledge more general and correct, the assumption


