
144                         FIFESHIRE.

which the labouring classes receive, and which render it almost im-
possible for them to educate their children without assistance.
  It was already said, that the burgh school is conveniently situated
for those children only who reside in the town. But it ought to be
mentioned, that although the present teacher is a distinguished scho-
lar, the youth, even within the town, are so numerous, that they
could not be educated at all were it not for the private schools which
have been opened. And in the landward or country part of the
parish, which is 4, 5, and 5 1/2 miles distant from Dysart, the youth
would not be educated at all, were it not that a school-house has
been built by subscription in a corner of the parish of Markinch,
supported partly by school fees, and partly by a salary paid to the
teacher by the Earl of Rosslyn and Mr Balfour of Balgonie. At
the last examination of this school there were 70 children present,
amongst whom were four Latin scholars.
  The expense of education in this parish is in some cases 2d. per
week, but more generally 3d. weekly, or 3s. per quarter for the
ordinary branches. It is almost needless to add, that in each of the
villages in the parish, especially in Gallaton, Boreland, and the
landward part of the parish, an established master is required.
  Libraries, &c.-There are two subscription libraries in the parish,
consisting of books of history, voyages, travels, &c. There is one
called the Mechanics' Library, and there is another consisting of
religious books only. The subscription to the three former is Is.
quarterly, and to the latter Is. Yearly, or a penny per month.
  There are two public reading rooms in the parish, where most
of the usual newspapers of the day may be seen.
  The only friendly societies now in the parish are those among
the sailors, the maltmen, and the bakers. These have been long
in existence, at least two hundred years. The funds belonging to
each of them are extensive, and are entirely devoted to the support
of indigent or decayed members.
  Saving' Bank. -There is also a savings' bank in Dysart, the
accumulated fund of Which is about L. 1200. The deposits in it
are chiefly from the labouring classes.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
who  receive aid from the parish funds is 120, and the average al-
lowance to each is 2s. 6d. per month. In some cases, however, 3a.
or 4s. are given. The fiind is made up by collections at the church
door, amounting on an average to L. 90 per annum;  by seat rents
belonging to the kirk-senion, amounting to about L. 30 in the year;
and by an annual contribution among the heritors, which varies from


