
     of Douglas

elegant burying vault in the new kirk, for the family of
Douglas, in which are deposited the remains of the Duke and
Duchess of Douglas, and Lady Lucy Douglas
     L2

<FOOTNOTE>

NUS GALLOWIDIAE, WIGTONIAE & ANNANDIAE, LOCUM TENENS REGIS SCOTIAE,
OBIIT 26. DIE MENSIS JUNIL 1438.  This nobleman was the son of Archibald
Douglas, surnamed Tineman, the first Duke of Dourain, and Maud Lindsay,
daughter of David Earl of Crawford.  On the south side of the church, in a
niche commonly called St. Thomas's aisle, are the following inscriptions: His
jocel Magnus et Potens Princeps, Dominus Facobus de Douglas, Dux Toureniae et Co-
mes de Duoglas, Dominus Annandiae, Gallovidiae, iddaliae, Fedburg: forrestrae et Do-
minus de Balvenia, Magnus Wardanus regni Scotiae versus Angham, etc. qui obut 24.
die Mensis Martii, Anno Domini 1443.  This James was brother to the former
Archibald, and succeeded to his estate and honours after the murder of his
two sons in Edinburgh Castle.  The following is the inscription for his lady-
His jacet Domina Beatrix de Sinclair, (silia Domini Hinrai Comitis Orcadum, Domi-
ni de Sinclair, etc) Comitissa de Douglas et Aventa, Domina Gallovidiae. In basso
relievo, are to be seen the above nobleman's arms impaled, with his lady's; the
cutting is distinct, and part of the gilding still entire. On the east side of these,
above the church-door, is a stone, with the following inscription, which is supposed
to have been moved from its original station, when making some repairs on the
Church. Hae sunt proles inter predictos Dominum et Dominam generatae. Imo, Dominus
Wilbelmus primogenilus it baeres dicti Dimini Jacobi, qui successit ad totam baes editatem
predictam. Jacobus 2do genitus magister de Douglas. Archibaldus 3tio genitus comes
Moravia. Hugo 4to genitus comes Ormundiae. Joannes 5to genetus Dominus de
Balvenia. Henricus 6to, genitus. Margareta uxor Domini de Dalkeith. Beatrix
uxor Domini * Joannis, constabularu Scotiae. Janeta uxor Domini de Biggar et de
Cumbernould Elizabetha Douglas 4ta silia erat. In a niche on the north side of
the church, west from the Duke of Tourain's mounument, erected to the me-
mory of the good Sir James, the eighth Lord of the family upon which were 12
lion's heads of curious net work, which had been cut, mutilated and abused during
the time of Oliver Cromwell's usurpation, by his garrison (placed in the castle
of Douglas), in resentment of Sir James having been an enemy to the English
nation. This monument is not impaled. The following are the inscriptions
on the lead coffins in the vault:-Gul. Augus. Dominus ex Jacobe Marshione

<FOOTNOTE>

*Home, in his history of the Douglases, calls him Lord of Aubigny.


