
     Statistical Account

David I.*  Patrick Graham, Archbishop of St Andrew's
and granson of King Robert III, was buried in this priory.
He was inferior to none of his time (says Spottiswood) in
learning and virtue; but falling under the displeasure of
the court and clergy he was sent prisoner to the castle of
Lochleven where he died in 1478, after enjoying the emp-
ty title of Archbishop for 13 years.  He was buried within
the chapel, but no vestiges of his monument are now to be
seen +.-The hospital of Scotland-well was situated at the
bottom of the Bishop's- hill.  It was founded by William
Malvoisine, Bishop of St Andrew's.  David de Benham
gave it to the Red Friars, and confirmed the gift by a char-
ter, dated 1250.  The Red Friars, who were established by
St John of Matha, and Felix de Valois, were bound to set
apart a third of their revenue, for redeeming Christian
slaves from the insidels +.  The parish church of Moonzie,
near Cupar, and that of Carnock near Dunfermline, be-
longed to this place.  The ruins of the church and house
are still to be seen near the village of Scotland-well 

<FOOTNOTE>

*Keith. + Spottiswood.

   Tertia vero reservetur ad redemptionen captivarum, qui sunt
incarcerati pro side Christi a Paganis.

   Among the antiquities of this place might be mentioned a bank or
mound of stones and turs, raised by the English army across the Leven
where it issues from the lake.  This was in 1335, during the seeble reign
of David II. when Edward III. of England had seized the greater part
of the country.  It was made with a view to raise the water of the lake
over the island on which the castle stands, into which many of the Scots
had retired.  Fart of the garrison under Sir Allan Wypont, in absence of
John Striveling the English general, made a breach in this mound, through
which the water rushed with such violence, as to carry along with it a
number of the enemy, with their horses, tents, etc. into the sea.  Those
who were out of the reach of the torrent, sled and left the besieged to re-
turn with the spoils of their camp, and the provisions which they had col-
       

