
                          TRANENT.                         295

   Character and Habits of the People. Among a population of
colliers, it cannot be expected that the habits of the people should
be cleanly; and the injurious practice of women working in the
pits as bearers, (now happily on the decline with the married fe-
males,) tends to render the houses of colliers most uncomfortable
on their return from their labours, and to foster many evils which
a neat cleanly home would go far to lessen. Colliers, from their
high wages, generally partake of the best butcher-meat, and may
be said to live well, but unfortunately they indulge very freely in
ardent spirits,-that bane of our working population.
   From the above remarks, it is evident that the mass of the peo-
ple cannot be said to be intellectual, moral, or religious. There
are, however, several marked exceptions; and it is to be hoped,
that the present exertions making for the diffusion of religious know-
ledge in the parish may, by the blessing of God, have a favourable,
effect on the character of the inhabitants.
                IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The whole parish is cultivated or occasionally in
village, with the exception of about 50 acres of links along the
sea-shore,-which could not be added profitably to the cultivated
land; and with the exception also of about 100 imperial acres un-
der wood, chiefly about the mansion-houses of Seton and St Ger-
mains. A large common in the neighbourhood of Tranent was fi-
nally divided and improved in 1804, and has since been under cul-
tivation.
   Rent.-The average rent of land to the north of the village of
Tranent may be said to be from L. 3, 10s., to L. 4 per Scots acre,
and to the south of Tranent, where it is poorer, about L. 1, 10s.,
to L. 2 per Scots acre, or one-fifth less than each of these sums per
imperial acre. The grazing of an ox may be reckoned at L. 6 per
half-year.
   The valued rent of the parish in the county books is L. 10,781,
9s. 1d. Scots, and the present real rent may be nearly L. 12,000,
exclusive of minerals, which may yield about L. 4000.
   Wages.-The rate of wages is from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d. per day for
farm-servants, and from 2s. 6d. to 2s. 8d. for artisans.
   Husbandry.-The general character ofthe husbandry, particularly
in the lower parts of the parish, and in the better parts of the higher
districts, has been of the most approved and modern kind. All kinds
of grain have been grown; but perhaps the culture of wheat has
been carried to too great an extent generally through the county.


