
512                          AYRSHIRE.

&c. from the out-crop of the limestone rock, the base of which may
in general averagre from 1O to 18 feet deep. The limestone rock
is then easily quarried, being in beds of from 1 to 4 feet in thick-
ness, and intersected by upright joints. The expense of quarrying
may average L. 1, 10s. per 100 bolls of two imperial bushels.
	All the shells and organic remains usually found in the carbo-
niferous limestone, occur in the lime rocks of this parish; speci-
mens of the Cornua ammonis have been found in Mansfield limestone
quarry. A bed of shell-marl or limestone about 2 1/2 feet appears in
connexion with the limestnne rock at Mansfield House. This bed
is again seen at Polquhortor and at Knockburnie, four or five
miles above New Cumnock, near Lanehead limestone quarry, wbich
proves the individuality and continuation of the strata, which seem
to be in connection with the basalt. Limestone is also wrought
at a considerable elevation at Corsancone, where it crops out on
the side of the breecia hills. This rock is about 25 feet in depth,
it is compact, and has the appearance of primitive limestone, and
follows the same course as the breecia through the upper part of
the parish of Auchinleck. This limestone may be said to be in a
solid mass; it contains no fossil nor organic remains. This may
have been originally the carboniferous limestone, but by coming
into contact with the volcanic breecia, and reduced to a state of
fusion, may have entirely obliterated the organic remains and stra-
tification. The mode of working this rock has been, for many
years, by mining. The whole rock, from its compactness, requires
to be blasted with powder. This limestone is burnt in draw-kilns,
and the lime carried into the parishes of Kirkconnel and Sanquhar,
and used by the farmers as a manure. About 25,000 bolls of two
imperial bushels are sold annually. All the lime quarried in this
parish, is burnt at the quarries in draw-kilns, and sold to the far-
mers in the neighbouring parisbes for a manure.
	The quantity burnt annuall is

<TABLE>
                                                     Bolls.        Bushels.
                    Benstone about                  60,000    =    120,000
 5 bolls per cart.     Polquhortor 8 or 9,
  Do.      do.            Do. Nether, 3 or 4,
  Do.      do.         Mansfield Haw,                 9000    =     22,000
  6 do.    do.           Do.    Glen,               25,000    =     50,000
  5 do.    do.         Lanehead 8,
                                                   ________        ________
                                     Total,
	The carboniferous limestone makes an excellent cement for build-
ing, that at Benstone, Mansfield, &c. having the quality of bind-
ing or, setting under water.


