
130                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

amid much weakness and imperfection, he extends his attentions
to all who are willing to receive them,-his one aim being to bring
all to the Great Shepherd of the Sheep, the Lord Jesus Christ.
He has the satisfaction of adding that during the thirty-two years
in which he has been allowed to be put in trust with the Gospel,
he has met with uniform kindness from his parishioners, by what-
ever name they have been distinguished.
   The number of individuals connected with the Dissenters in
this parish is 658, the number left entirely under the charge of
the church is 1324. Of these, some attend at Currie church, a
few go into town, and a number, it is to be feared, go nowhere.
The church was long exceedingly ill attended in winter, its cold-
ness being pleaded as an excuse. In summer it is well filled, but
it must with sorrow be acknowledged, that the burtful and un-
christian practice of attending public worship in the forenoon only,
too generally pervades all classes of society.
   There is a Bible Society in the parish, which has long existed;
it is auxilliary to the Edinburgh Bible Society, but its exertions
are very limited. Its contributions amount at present only to about
L.12 a-year. Connected with the chapel at Slateford is a Con-
gregational Society for Religious Purposes.
   The average amount of collections for religious and charitable
purposes is L.7, 15s. 5d., for the five years preceding 1836.
   Education.-There are one parochial school, and six private
schools in the parish. The parochial school stood originally "at
the minister's yett," and bore above its entry these words," aut
doce, aut disce, aut abi." It was rebuilt at a great expense in
1815, in a fine healthy situation above the village. The mas-
ter, besides teaching English, writing, geometry, arithmetic, and
geography, qualified to teach Latin, Greek, and French. He
has the legal accommodations, the maximum salary of L.34, and
generally from 90 to 100 scholars, yielding about L.40 of fees.
in the liberal spirit of Christian benevolence, the present master,
Robert Hunter, A.M. bears a very considerable proportion of that
burden of instructing the poor, which would otherwise fall to be
borne by the kirk-session. He also holds the offices of session-
clerk, of clerk to the heritors, and of postmaster at Colinton, while
he is employed to collect the parochial assessments.
   Three of the private schools receive aid more or less, so
that the teachers do not altogether depend upon the school
fees. The remaining three are supported merely by the fees. In



