
            		GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

         	    ON THE COUNTY OF STIRTLING.

THE name of this county first appears in the Rotuli Scotice about
1296, under the form of Stryvelyn, or Stryveline, or Stryveling.
Boethius (Lib. x. p. 204) pretends that Sterling money derives its
name from Stirling, because Osbert, a Saxon prince, after the
overthrow of the Scots, established a mint here. This, however,
is a mistake, as it is well-known that Sterling money derives its
name from the merchants of the Easterlings, who first taught the
people of the west to transact money matters in a business-like
manner.
   It is worthy of remark that this county, situated, upon the con-
fines of no less than four kingdoms, having the Northumbrian and
Cumbrian dominions on the south, and those of the Scots and the
Picts on the north, was for ages a field of much contention and
bloodshed; the castle of Stirling alternately coming into the pos-
session of the strongest and the bravest for the time. Buchanan
terms it Sterlinum. Probably Grose, in his Antiquities, is right
when he derives the ancient name Stryvelyn from the Scots word
to strive. The old burgh seal of Stirling has on one side of it a
cross and a bridge with this motto, " Hie armis Bruti, Scoti stant
hoc cruce tuti;" on the reverse, a fortalice surrounded with trees,
with the following motto, " Continent hoc nemus et castrum Stre-
velense." Another seal has a wolf upon a rock, with " oppidum
Sterlini." This important county is, in its greatest legth, 45
miles, and in its extreme breadth 18 miles. It is bounded on the
north by Perthshire, and part of Clackmannanshire; on the west
by Argyleshire; on the south by Dumbartonshire and Lamarkshire;
and on the east by the county of Linlithgow.
   Its area comprehends about 489 square miles, or 312,960 acres,
of which; about 200,000 are cultivated, 50,000uncultivated, and
62,960 unproductive. This is exclusive of the parish, of  Alva,
which, since the beginning of the seventeenth, century, has been
attached to Stirlingshire, although upwards of four miles distant.


