
     of Birse.

grated to Philadelphia, not for want of employment, or for
any want whatever, but rather out of fondness of change,
and having a friend before them.  An unmarried woman
remained; she regrets that she did not go with the rest, for,
says she, "Troubles are only beginning here, but they are
over there."  We trust she is not inspired with the gift of
prophecy.  The largest plantations, and greatest number of
trees of all sorts are certainly on the estate of Finzean, yet,
among many others, two remarkable trees grow, the one
at Midstrath, and the other at Ballogie, which have deser-
vedly been resorted to and admired by the curious.  The
one at Midstrath is ash, and measures upwards of 20 feet in
circumference at the ground, from 17 to 19 feet little above
the ground.  Its branches are as large as ordinary trees.  It is
vulgarly called the Maiden of Midstrath.  The tree at Bal-
logie is birch of the weeping sort; some think it 100 feet
high, others only from 70 to 80.  It has a straight stem of
50 feet and upwards, and 5 feet in circumference through
the whole.  Many young trees of the above kind on the
burn of Chattie, are in a fair way of equalling soon this
beautiful one*.

     VOL. IX. R

<FOOTNOTE>

*To the north east of Finzean, is a still called the Gallow Hill.  Ano-
ther is near to Ballogie.  There the Barons of old, who held their estates
with power of pit and gallows, put to death any of then tenants or de-
pendents, who were so unfortunate as to fall under their displeasure.  What
blessed days do we now enjoy, in comparison of these?  How thankful to
God, and loyal to the King, ought we therefore to be?  Our cafe has
been mehorated, and, by a wife Legislature, will, by degrees, be so still.
Were some of the duty taken off the leather and the malt, this would
greatly lease the subject in this cornet.  Were the landlords to grant long-
er leases, and be pleased to take a moderate convension for the multure
paid to the mill, this would encourage the tenants to improve, and would
wean them from the old unproductive mode of farming.  Were allow-
ance given them for the stone-foot of their houses, as well as for the tim-
ber, which, by the by, is done in the land of Ballogie, this would induce


