
808                          LANARKSHIRE.

being within twelve miles of the town of Leadhills, the highest in
habited spot in the kingdom, with the single exception of its neigh-
bour Wanlockbead,-and surrounded on all sides, except the
north. by immense ranges of "hills on hills in close succession," *
our climate may be expected to be rather damp.  We have ac-
cordingly towards the end of autumn, as also frequently in. the
months of February and March, successive weeks of rain, so that
the month of April is sometimes pretty far advanced before the
ground is in a fit state to receive the seed, and hence a late harvest
is almost the invariable consequence. Notwithstanding of these re-
marks, I am not sure that we have more rain in this quarter, than
falls in the eastern part of Galloway, and certainly we have not so much
as falls on the west coast of that province, and in many parts of Ayr-
shire. I suspect however, we have more, and severer frost, as also
moresnow than our neighbours to the south and west. In the winter
and spring of 1837-8, the ground was covered pretty deeply with
snow for ten weeks ! The thermometer in the open air at a north-
west window of the manse, was as low one morning about day-light
at 8 o'clock, as 4 degrees above zero, and it no doubt bad been lower
during the night.   Our summers, however, are sometimes both
dry and very warm, so that the pasture is quite burnt up by the
middle of June.  The thermometer is often about 76; and in that
season, remarkable for beat and drought, 1826, when we had scarce-
ly a shower from February to September, it was for months gene-
rally about 80&deg;, and sometimes 84&deg;, and 86&deg; in the shade; and
one day in removing it into the full sun, it rose rapidly to 120 de-
grees.  Indeed, from being so encircled by hills, our harvest in
the vale of the Clyde is much earlier than in some districts
greatly lower, but not go well sheltered.  We are also less sub-
jected to the evils of lingering frosts in the beginning of sum-
mer, or early hoar frost in autumn, than many of our neighbours,
particularly about Robertoun, and Biggar and Skirling.  There is
a fair at Skirling in the middle of June, and another in September
or October, about which seasons it has long been remarked that
potatoes, and even oats, are frequently injured by frost.
   The following register, kept by myself of the farming operations
upon my globe, will furnish a pretty correct idea of the climate of
Wandell and Lammingtoune:

<FOOTNOTE>The situation of the parish church is only 120 feet lower than the summit of
seat.


