
                                   CRIEFF.                            487

     nion, seems calculated to promoted the progress of industry, and,
     so far as regards the peculirities of this district, the comfort and
     happiness of the labouring classes.  It is this : Let the popula-
     tion be proportioned to what is required for the due management
     of the land, and for the demand for labour, whether in-door or out
     door, existing or likel to exist among us; and with matters in
     this healthy state, our valuable institutions,religious, educational,
     and agricultural, improved and improving as they daily are, will
     accomplish all else desirable,
       And now I close these Statistical lucubrations by saying, in be-
     half of my own section of the country, as our Scottish classic said
     in behalf of the country at large,
                     "Semper pax tua menia
                     Colat; semper in aedibus
                     Tuis copla dextera
                     Larga mundra fundat.-BUCHANAN.
     June 1838.


                  PARISH OF CRIEFF,

     PRESBYTRERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

            THE REV.  WILLIAM 1,AINGs MINLBTER.
            JAMIES FERGUSSON, ASSISTANT.*


                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY
       Name, Seenery, &c,-It is a very eommon opision that the
     name of the town and parish of Crieff is derived from the Gaelie
     word Gracebk, a tree; though some have thought it probable that
     it comes from Crybha Croic, the "haunch or side of the hill"
     which the town is built.
       The town of Crieff is situate near the foot of the Grampiones,
     about 17 miles west from Perth, and 22 north from Stirling.  It
     is the second in importance in Perthshire.  It takes the rank of
     capital of upper Stratheara; and it stands out the hope of a bill,
     enjoying a fiue southern expesure, and commanding a prospect
     at once sublime as I beautiful.  Many another adepts of stirlinguick.
     ed families are in the immediate neighbnurhood, of white
     few are spacius and elegant; and these circumstances. another

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up the Ambitant Minister.


