
424                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

many of his letters, is still in possession of William Leslie, Esq.
the present proprietor of the family estate.
   Land-owners.-In 1674, there were fifteen land-owners in this
parish; but in less than a century after, they had decreased in
number to seven, afterwards to five, and now there are six, viz.
Sir Robert Dalrymple Horn Elphinstone, of Old Rain and Logiei-
Elphinstone, Baronet; Sir Alexander Leith, of Freefield and
Cushiestown, K. C. B.; William Leslie of Warthill and Tocher,
Esq.; Alexander Gordon, of Meiklewarthill and Loanhead, Esq.;
Alexander Forbes, of Rothmaise and Blackford, Esq.; John Gor-
don, of Kirktown and Lentush, Esq.
   Parochial Registers.-The Session records commence in 1672,
and amount to ten volumes, comprising accounts of the poor's funds,
church, discipline, and register of births and marriages, but none
of deaths.  The baptismal record has been regularly kept during
the last twenty years; and that it was not so previously, was ow-
ing, to the negligence of the parents.
   Antiquities.-In the south-east part of the parish is a conical
hill, called a law, on which, according to tradition, trials were held
of old, and doom pronounced, and at times, perhaps, summarily
executed.  This little hill, of which the top is now covered with
fir trees and furze, has given the name of Lawesk (now Louesk)
to the adjoining farms, extending to several hundred acres.
About a mile westward from it was a well, called St Lawrence
Well; and, at the distance of another mile west, is the village of
Old Rain, where is held an annual market, named Lawrence Fair.
On a small rising-ground in the middle of this villge, and which
was surrounded by a moat, there was once a house of residence
for the Bishop of Aberdeen who, upon the union of the Episcopal
sees of Mortlach and Aberdeen in 1137, received from King
David, in grant to himself and his successors, the lands of Old
Aberdeen, Sclattie, Clatt, Kildrummie, Daviot, and Raine, by
which the see was greatly enriched.  It is recorded, "that Alex-
ander Kinninmonth, who was made bishop in 1329, passed the
winter for Mortlach, the spring in Aberdeen and the summer and
harvest at Fettenear and Raine, that he might the more com-
modiously dikeharge his office in everry part of his diocese."
And he it probably was, that built the residence referred to, the
foundation which was discernible in the last century, but has
since been effaced, and the ground brought under tillage.  Here
also is a market-cross, consisting of an upright pillar of hewn gra-


