
                         BALMACLELLAN.                           101

have roosted ever since, in considerable numbers, on some tall trees
near the foot of Cairnsmoor.   Of the smaller birds that enliven
the grove, a great variety abounds.  At the approach of winter
large flocks of "lintwhites sing in chorus" on some tall poplars
near the manse.   They all pause together, and then after a
short interval resume their warbling.   A few years ago, the mis-
sel-thrush and starling were exceedingly rare.  They are now
abundant.  The cross-bill forms another recent addition to the
feathered race of the district.   Plantations have increased in the
neighbourhood, and there this interesting stranger may be seen,
frnm time to time, extracting seeds, with his singular bill, from the
cones of the Scotch fir.
  There are no quadrupeds worthy of notice.  The little, spirit-
ed, and serviceable species of horse once so famous in Gallo-
way, is scarcely ever met with.  Of the wilder animals the species
are few.  Foxes have no particular haunt or yird in the parish,
and badgers are unknown.  Otters abound, but remain the unmo-
lested tenants of the stream.  They are never harrassed by the
sportsman with spear or hound, and, only one individual, With a
trap of his own construction, has disturbed their peaceful posses-
sion of the deep.  This invention, if skilfully applied, and with a
due regard to the habits of these animals might be successfully
employed for their destruction.
  The streams and lochs are well stored with fish, and afford
ample opportunity to the angler to display his skill.  In Loch
Houie and Loch Urr pike are very plentiful; and the largest ever
caught in Britain was taken from the waters of the Ken.  Here
also perch abound, though introduced scarce a century ago.  In
the time of harvest, a very large species of troutascends the Shirmers
and Garple to deposit its spawn.   In spite, however, of prohibi-
tory statutes, poachers and others manage with impunity to sweep
the streams with nets, or, in the dark night, spear the fish upon
the fords, by means of torch light.  The trout of Loch Brack rival
those of Lochinvar in quality, and are far superior in point of size.
Two were caught this year, weighing five and seven pounds re-
spectively.  Barscobe, Loch Skae, and the Lows deserve also to
be mentioned.  On the whole, there is no parish in the south
where the angler may more successfully Pursue his solitary but
Pleasant pastime.  The following is a well-known  "saw" among
the brothers of the rod and line in this district:-




