
848                     LANARKSHIRE.

way to the Medwin by Many rivulets or burns; viz. the March
burn, already mentioned as forming the north-eastern boundary of
the parish; to the westward of which, at the distance of about a
mile and a quarter, is Winter-burn ; then the Ha'-burn, the Glebe-
burn, and Black-law burn, all within the space of less than a mile;
and lastly, the Gill-burn,which separates the parish from Libberton
on the north-western quarter.  All these are conveyed by the
Medwin, still continuing its placid course to the westward for
about four miles after leaving the parish, to the Clyde, and by it
to the Atlantic Ocean.  Whereas the burns on the south side of
the ridge,-two of which flowing from the extremities ofthe southern
boundary, which they form throughout its whole extent, viz. Paul-
yard-burn from the eastward, and Cocklaw-burn from the west-
ward, and receiving toward the middle of the line, where they
meet in the vale of Elsrickle, a burn from that village, and two
others from the eastward, both of which rise on the farm of How-
burn, unite in the Two-mile, * or Candy-burn, which falls into
Biggar Water, a tributary of the Tweed, and thus transmit the
waters of the Elsrickle, or south side of the parish, into the Ger-
man Ocean.
   Climate.-The climate of this parish is affected not only by the
latitude, 55&deg; 41, but also to a certain extent by its elevation above
the level of the sea, and above the adjacent country to the west-
ward.  In more genial seasons, the harvests are not more than a
few days later than in the vicinity of Edinburgh; while in cold
and rainy seasons, they are later by as many weeks.  From the
cold piercing easterly winds in spring, the parish is greatly shel-
tered by the Black Mount, and Dolphinton Hill, its coutinuation
eastward.  These, with their shoulders and flanks protruding to
the north and south, break the force of the, eastern blasts, and
change their direction; and vainly do the chilling haars, which
flow like the advancing tide over the lower lands that stretch away
to the mouth of the Frith of Forth, attempt to surmount their
summits.  Obstructed as by a mighty promontory, they float along
the adjacent valleys, and present every considerable eminence
with its trees or houses under the appearance of islands in a whitish
lake.  But picturesque as the affects of the haars at times may
be, it is a favourable circumstance for the climate of this parish
that they rarely reach it, and never entirely cover it; and to this
in some degree it may be owing, that the lands in this parish, even

<FOOTNOTE>"The Two-mile-burn coming fra Elsrickle bog down by Skirling, falls into
Biggar Water, and then into the Tweed."-Sibbald MS.  Account by Sir W. Baillie
of Lamington, and William Baillie of Carphin.


