
     Of Kilmuir Wester and Suddy.

   The disadvantages, on the other hand, are many.  The great-
est, and that which is most sensibly felt by the inhabitants,
arises from the want of fuel; the whole mosses in the parish
being quite exhausted, and the people's having recourse to no-
thing else to make up this want, but the purchasing of a few
young planted firs which have little last, and as little warmth
or heat in them.  The 2d, arises from the want of limestone
to help to manure the lands, or any marl, except on the
estates of Kilcoy and Bellmaduthy, which, from its scarcity,
ha been wholly confined to their own mains, and when and
where applied, has been found to answer well.  A 3d disad-
vantage arises from the want of manufactures.  There are se-
veral eligible stations for establishing manufactures in this pa-
rish, especially an woollen or linen manufacture which might
be carried on here to any extent.  Indeed there are 2 stations
in this parish so naturally calculated for such a business, that
it is rather surprising that they should, till now, be quite ne-
glected; the one of these is at the village of Munlochy, where
there is plenty of fresh water to work any machinery, a plain
of a considerable extent, at least 100 acres, through every
part of which water may be carried with the greatest ease,
and it is surrounded with a fine green bank facing the S. for
drying clothes, within less than a quarter of a mile of the
sea, and in the midst of a populous country where the inha-
bitants are desirous of employment; and Mr. M'Kenzie of
Kilcoy, the proprietor, I am well persuaded, would encou-
rage a company on liberal terms to set up a manufacture
there.  The other station is on the shore of Kessock, opposite
to the town of Inverness, the property of Mr. Grant of Red-
castle.  Ships of any burden can come quite close to that shore;
and Mr. Grant has told me, that he would feu out the ground
on his property along the shore, on easy terms, to such trades-
men as would wish to settle there, and give a manufacturer


