
584                           EDINBURGHSHIRE.

state of things by the adoption of sound principles, may have come
too late to promote the interests and support the credit of such
excellent institutions in this quarter, since what are called yearly
Societies are now becoming very generally substituted for them.
These are dissolved at the end of every year, and the surplus
funds, after paying certain rates during sickness, and so much at
death to meet funeral expenses, are divided among the members,
and the society is constituted anew, when the former members
have an opportunity of enrolling them again.  Should any, how-
ever, happen to be in sickness at the time, or have fallen into a
declining state of health, he is rejected, and left to bear the evils
of his condition without any alleviation from such resources; nor
on this plan can any provision be made for old acre as in perma-
nent societies, by the superannuated allowance which their mem-
bers enjoy in such circumstances. The labouring population, at
least in the collieries, receive, however, much benefit still from
such institutions.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid for the last five years is 35, or rather that
is the average of cases, for as there were widows with families
among these, the number of persons would be greater. The ave-
rage allowance to each is 1s. 2d. weekly to those on the perma-
nent roll, consisting, almost exclusively of individuals to whom the
lowest allowance is 1s, and the highest 2s. weekly. Those on the
casual roll average 2s. weekly, the highest being, 2s.6d. and the
lowest 1s. It is proper to state, however, that the poor connected
with the collieries, (the great bulk of the population being there
employed), have no house rents to pay, and also obtain their fuel
free of expense, which are two very material advantages; and far-
ther that, where widows are left with young families who require
assistance till able to provide for themselves in whole or in part,
among the collier population this is at a comparatively early pe-
riod, not only on account of the earnings of the mother, (7s. a-
week), but because the services of the children are very early
available, many of them being set to work at eight or nine years of
age.
   The annual contributions for the relief of the poor from all
sources for the year 1837 was as follows:-

<TABLE>
	   Ordinary collections,	.   .	L.80	14	9 1/2
         Mortcloths and iron covers,.	  17	14    6 1/2
         Proclamations and private baptisms, 6	13	6
         Voluntary contributions,	        19	10	0
                                         ___________________
                                         L.124  12   10


