
                      ANSTHRUTHER EASTER.               297

judge of by the single fact, that the tonnage belonging to the
port, at the date of the former Statistical Account, was 1400, and is
now only 964.  Capital seems to be flowing steadily to the larger
towns, and with it of course that part of the population which can-
not find employment here.  Accordingly, the value of property is
considerably lowered, and, while old tenements are suffered to fall
into ruins, the number of new erections is comparatively small.
     In the year 1710 Anstruther Easter was made a port, and a
custom-house established.  In 1827 it was made a sub-port, com-
prehensing St Andrews, Crail, Pittenweem, St Monance, `nd
Elie, with the establishment of a collector, comptroller, and tide-
waiter; having also three coast-waiters, one at each of the follow-
ing place, St Andrews, Crail, and Elie.  This custom-house can
cmorrespond directly with the Board of Customs; but the accounts
are usually transmitted to the custom-house at Kinkaldy.
     Eminent Men.--Anstruther Easter is the birth place of the Rev.
Dr Chalmers, Professor of Divinity in the University of Edin-
burgh, and of that eminent oriental scholar Professor Tennant of
St Andrews.
     Parochial Registers.--The records of the kirk-session are pre-
served from the year 1641, down to the present time.  They have
been carefully kept, and are very legible.  The register of bap-
tisms during the same period is also preserved.  Of marriages the
record is less regular and entire.
     Ecclesiastical History.--Previous to the year 1636, the town of
Anstruther Easter formed part of the parish of Kilrenny.  At that
period, it was erected into a separate parish, and a church built. In
the year 1641, the first minister was settled.  The succession of mi-
misters down to the present time seems to have been regular.  Their
names and the dates of their ordination or induction are as follows:
Colin Adams 1641, Edward Thomson 1677, John Nairne,
his son, 1674, who had been previously assistant and successor for
twenty-one years, and Robert Wilson, the present incumbent, 1796.
     The session records bear that presbyterial visitations had been
occasionally held in the parish in former times, and that collec-
tions were sometimes made in the church for public works in the
neighbourhood,--in one instance towards the erection of a bridge at
St Andrews.  They are chiefly filled, however, with accounts of
the disbursement of money to the poor, to church officers, &c. and



