
                        PARISH OF TONGLAND. *

             PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCUDBRIGT, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

             THE REV. DUGALD STEWART WILLIAMSON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name, Extent, Boundaries, SSc.-The derivation of the name,
which is spelt Tungland, Tongueland, but more commonly Tong-

<FOOTNOTE>The last Statistical Account of Tongland, written in 1793, bears the name of
the Rev. William Robb; but it is generally understood to have been supplied by his
brother Alexander, at that time his assistant and afterwards his successor, who sur-
vived him nine years, and died in the prime of life in 1806, after a short and sud-
den illness. He enjoyed a considerab;e local reputation as a man of science, a man
of letters, and a man of wit. His wit was principally discharged in satirical effi-
sions, sometimes in prose and sometimes in verse, on incidents and personages of
such dignity as the parish or county could afford. Those which I have seen are
coarse and vigorous productions, executed in a style of broad humour, and well fitted
to excite both the merriment and the fear of the humble class of readers for whom
they were intended. I am informed by those who remember him that, in conversa-
tion, he was fluent and original, ranging over a variety of subjects, but always wil-
ling to escape from the grave and instructive to the grotesque and comical, without
much regard either to the disposition of the company or the suitableness of the oc-
casion. His fame for science seems to have arisen chiefly from his knowledge of
scientific men, with some of the most eminent of whom, in the last age, he was in
habits of intercouse. He had a turn for practical mechanics, and I have heard it
stated, but I do not know on what authority, that he was the inventor of some inge-
nious contrivances about the loom. That he was a man of literary ambition is evi-
dent, from his having spent a portion of his best days in composing two works, one
entitled "The History of the Reformation in Italy, "and the other," The Philo-
sophy of Religion." These compositions were shown in manuscript to some of the
principal literary men of the day, but, whether from their wanting literary merit,
or exhibiting too much freedom of opinion, the publication vas discouraged, and the
author abandoned the idea. If I may judge from such slight specimens as I have
seen of his composition, I should pronounce him to have been totally unfit to con-
duct a grave or elaborate work, having been not only destitute of grace and even co-
herence in is writing, but as appears from his frequent blunders in arthorgraphy,
without the advantages of a finished or regular education. Whatever may have been the
execution of these works, however, the selection of topics was felicitous, both having
been since handled by two popular writers, "The Philosophy of Religion, "by Mr Dick
of Perth, and "The History of the Reformation in Italy," by the well-known Dr
M'Crie. But, humble as the rank to which publication would, in all likelihood, have
consigned him, he was undoubtedly a man of liberal curiosity and of active intellec-
tual habits. Having gathered, by extreme and protracted frugality, a considerable
sum of money, be determined, a few years before his death, to indulge his appetite for
information by making a tour upon the contiment, and after obtaining leave of ab-
sence from his presbytery, for that purpose, he spent nearly two years in travelling
through France, and Italy, principally, I believe, on foot. The accounts of him
adventures which he gave on his return to his friends were thought highly amus-
ing, but no part of is diaries war ever published, nor am I aware that they have


