
                               FORRES.                               165

       chiefly by subscriptions from the neighbouring, gentry, who prin.
       cipally attend it.  Anderson's Academical Institution, built about
       twenty years ago, is a handsome building in the Grecian style, adorn-
       ed with a spire and public clock ; it was endowed by the late Jona-
       than Anderson, Esq. of Glasgow, for the education of poor chil-
       dren, from the -parishes of Forres, Rafford, and Kinloss. St Lawl
       rence Mason Lodge, built from a design by Mr Simpson of Aber-
       deen, is another striking ornament of the town, and includes a
       ball-room, supper-roorn, and other apartments for the meetings of
       the brethren.
         Antiquities.-Allusion has already been made to the ancient
       castle or fort which existed here, as being the occasional residence
       of royalty. It stood at the west end of the town, on a green mound
       where the ridge on which the town stands abruptly -terminates, and
       is washed at its base by the burn of Fores. Scarcely any traces
       of the ancient buildings now remain to indicate its extent or form,
       but, judging from the area of ground on the summit'of the bill, it
       could not have been very considerable. There can be no doubt
       that it was originally occupied as a royal fort, to which state pri4
       soners were brought from all parts of the north' of Scotland for
       trial and punishment. It afterwards belonged to the Earls of Mo-
       ray, probably as the delegates of royal power in the district, and
       from them it devolved by inheritance on the Dunbars of Westfieldi
       who held, until a late period, the office of hereditary sheriff of Mo-
       ray. This last family resided here,and the building which now exists
       was intended by them as part of a new structure contemplated for
       their accommodation, in substitution of the former castle. It is now
       the property of the Right Honourable the Earl of Seafield. The
       remarkable obelisk so generally known as the 11 Forres Pillar," of
       Sweno's Stone, although in the close vicinity of the town, is not
       within the limits of the parish. It may therefore suffice here to
       state, that it is still in tolerable preservation, although the effects
       of time are gradually effacing the emblematic sculpture on its
       surface. A correct engraving of one side of this splendid obe
       fisk is to be found in the edition of 11 Shaw's History of Mo.
       ray," published in 1827. In corroboration of its traditional his-
       tory, that it was intended to commemorate a victory obtained by
       the Danes at this place, it may be mentioned, that, about thirty
       years ago, a number of human skeletons were dug up within a few
       yards of it.
        Eminent Men.-Under this head, the name of Mr James Dick


