
                                        WESTRAY.                    117                                 lit

         into tremendous breakers, render it a fearful gulf. The tideway
         in this frith is reckoned the same with that of the Pentland, which,
         in spring-tides, runs at the rate of eight knots an hour. The depth
         of water is from 20 to 50 fathoms. On the west, this island is
         bounded by the Atlantic; on the cast, by a small portion of sea
         called a sound, which separates it from the Islands of Ferey and
         Eday; and on the north and north-east, by anotber sound, sepa-
         rating  it from that portion of the parish called Papa-Westray.
         The breadth of the proper ferry between the two islands may be
         reckoned from three to four miles.
            Papay-Westray.- This island forms another constituent part of
         the parochial charge. Whence it derives its name can only be
         matter of conjecture. It is of an oval form, and is exactly one
         mile broad, and about three and a half long, making its superficial
         contents three and a half square miles. In the middle, it rises in
         the form of a ridge, and gently declines on both sides, until it
         reaches the sea shore. In this shape, it runs nearly the whole
         length of the island. But, on the north extremity, it terminates
         in a headland, bold and lofty, called the Mull of Papay. At this
         headland, is a cave, deemed one of the greatest natural curiosities
         of the kind to be met with, perhaps, in all the country. Its inte-
         rior presents the appearance of an immense amphitheatre. The
         roof, upwards of 70 feet in height, is somewhat like a regular built
         arch,-tbe beds of rock on every side rising the one above the
         other in the form of steps in a stair. The entrance is about 50
         feet in width, the breadth of the middle part about 60, and the
         most interior, 48. The floor has a little inclination outwards, but
         its surface is smooth and even to the foot of the traveller. It is
         well worth being seen by strangers visiting the island. It is called
         the How of Habrahelia.  The southern extremity of this island is
         also somewhat elevated, but not nearly so much as that of its op-
         posite.  In this quarter, there is a beautiful fresh-water lake, which
         extends nearly across the whole island, from the one side of it to
         the other; and in one part of this lake, there is a kind of islet, and
         on that serum of a chapel, said'to'have been dedicated to a female
         saint of the name of Tredwall; and such was the veneration enter-
         tained by the inhabitants for, this ancient Saint, that it was with
         difficulty that the first Presbyterian minister of the parish could
         restrain them, of a Sunday morning, from paying their devotions
         at this ruin, previous to their attendance on public worship in the


