
650                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

Abergeldie.  There are five proprietors' seats in the parish, viz.
Mar Lodge, Invercauld, and Corymulzie Cottage in Braemar, and
Abergeldie and Balmoral in Crathie.  The latter has been near-
ly all built by the Honourable Sir Robert Gordon, who rents the
estate of Balmoral from the Trustees of the late James Earl of
Fife, on a lease of thirty-eight years.
   Parochial Registers.-These are neither voluminous, nor have
they been regularly kept.  The first of them commenced with the
ordination of Mr Adam Ferguson, on the 25th of September
1700, and appears to have been regularly carried on till 17th
September, 1710, after which date, there is a complete blank down
to 19th May 1716.  Whether a change of pastor took place during
that period, the writer cannot discover; but, from a minute of ses-
sion dated February 1721, it appears that Mr John M'lnnes was
then minister of the united parish, who was succeeded in office
successively by Mr Murdoch M'Lenan, Mr Wilson, Mr Charles
M'Hardy, and the present incumbent.
   Antiquities.-There are at Castletown of Braemar the ruins of
an old castle, which is said to have been built by Malcum Ceann
Mor, for a huntidg-seat.  From the vestiges still remaining, it is
evident that the edifice must have been of considerable extent.  On
a small eminence below Castletown, stands the castle of Braemar,
in an opening between two hills.  It belongs to Invercauld.  In
1748, it was let to Government on a lease of ninety-nine years,
and has since been occasionally occupied by a party of soldiers as
barracks, for which purpose, it is well adapted, both from its situa-
tion, and also from its being surrounded by a strong rampart.
   At Castletown, the spot is still pointed out where the Earl of
Mar erected the standard of rebellion in 1715, and proclaimed
King James.  About a mile and a balf down the valley, on the
south of the Dee, there is a steep shelvy rock all interspersed with
trees; it is known by the name of Charters Chests, from this
circumstance, that, in the face of it, there is a cave of very difficult
access, wherein the charters of the Invercauld property were de-
posited during the Rebellion above-mentioned.
   About seven miles down, on the north side of the river Dee,
there is a narrow pass between the water and the base of a high
hill, and through this pass runs the line of road leading to Aber-
deen, and also to Fort-George, and close by is a large cairn of
small stones which is called Carn nacuimline, that is, the cairn of


