

38                      SELKIRKSHIRE.

feldspar, and quartz, may be observed in glens connected with the
head of the Yarrow.  There is a formation of new sandstone up Dry-
hope Burn, and also a bed of transition glossv alum-slatee, the latter
being found again in a soft and friable state, from exposure to the
air, by the side of the river near Yarrow-ford. Iron pyrites occurs
plentifully on Bowerhope, and calcareous apar on Kirkstead.  In
the rocky bank close by the house of Langhope, isa deep bed of
rich micaceous earth, having a beautiful metallic lustre.  A seam
of clay between the strata of state o slate crosses the Blackeleugh in
Blackhouse, and contains glittering particles of a similar nature,
which are probably mica also.  Pieces of insulated galena have
been sometimes picked up.  No limestone has as yet been disco-
vered in the parish; but the number of calcareous springs indicate
its existence at no great depth.
    The skulls of the Urus * described by Caesar, and an extinct spe-
cies of deer with large palmated antlers, have been found imbed-
ded in the mark mosses.  An old spur, with a rowel nine inches
in circumsference, was found by Sir W. Scott in Huntly Meadow.
The existence tracts ofpeat arefull of decayed trees, a grear pro-
portion on the hills being the birch, and in the low grounds the oak.
As instances of the preservative quality of this vegetable ofrmation,
two facts maybe noticed.  There was a tradition of a suicide having
been buried in a moss near Berrybush more than a century before;
and, in digging the place a few years ago, the body was found en-
tire with the bonnet, coat, plaid, hose, &c. quite fresh.  In cast-
ing another close to the dwelling-house of Whitehope, a layer of
lint was met with covered with stones.  It had evidently been laid
out to steep on he subsoil and not removed, and was six feet below
the surface.
   A great part of our soil is a light, hazel-coloured loam,formed
from the decomposition of the rocks, and much mixed with stones.
It is common on the sides of the hills, and the gentle acelities
along their base.  In some places there are Trifolium repens, Bel-
lis perennis, Plantago lanceolata, &c. which make an excellent pas-
ture.  Where itis deep, Polypodium vulgare is dfound in abun-
dance; but, whrer thin and exposed, it is apt tobe overrun with
musci.  On the sunny slopes, as Wardlaw Craig, Catslacknow-
hill Deucharhope, &c.  Cistus heliantheman, or the rock-rose,

<FOOTNOTE>A head of the Urus or Bison, in the hall at Abbotsford which was found in a
neighbouring mass, indicates an animal nearby three times the size of the Chilling-
ham wild cattle, and corroborates Ceasar's description.
                                         3


