
                       KINEPAUNS.                             1207

built, about thirty years ago, by the l
ate Lord Gray, for an obser-
vatory, from the top of which may be obtained almost a b¡rd's-eye
view of Kinfauns Castle and gardens, and the pleasure grounds
around, with an extensive prospect of the surrounding country. To
the east of this last-mentioned hill, the land is arable, sloping gra-
dually downwards, till it ends in a deep ravine, on the opposite side
of which there is another hill, remarkable only as consisting of the
largest continuous mass of conglomerate rock to be found in this
part of the country. Fartber east still, is another hill, which bears
a strong resemblance to that of Kinnoull, only the rock immedi-
ately below the brow is not so nearly perpendicular. The top of
this hill commands a view of the whole of the Carse of Gowrie, of
the tower of Dundee, and of Broughty Castle, and also of the
whole of the river Tay, from a mile below Perth to the German
Ocean, a portion. of which likewise is seen. To the south may
be obtained a view of the whole east end of Strathearn, and to
the south-west, a considerable portion of the middle of the same
strath may be seen, the view being bounded in this direction by
Auchterarder moor.
   These hills already described, with another still farther to the
east, which are almost all wooded on the top, and also tp the
southern acclivity, as far as the soil will permit, form what may
be called the screen of the lowlands. But from these run north-
ward other hilly ranges, forming various ramifications, rising, sink-
ing, and rising again, by gentle undulations, till they pass beyond
the bounds of this parish, and sink down at last, into the valley of
Strathmore, of which, to a certain extent they form the southern
boundary.
   As we do not intend to enter on the geological department, it
may be mentioned here, that all these hills consist, of trap, with
here and there patches of conglomerate; that in the sloping
grounds, near their bases, on the south side, are found onyxes,
jaspers, agates, and cornelians, of various sizes and colours; and
that, also, in various places are found large boulders of whinstone,
which is of a lighter colour than that of which the hills are compos-
ed,-with others which seem to consist of a sort of coarse gra-
nite.
   The only cave in the parish, as far as is known, to the writer, is
one in the face of Kinnoull hill, rather difficult of access, called
the Dragon-hole, and noticeable only on account of its being re-
ported, by tradition, to have been the occasional hiding place of


