
                                         SHETLAND.

            infield, when laboured for a crop of bear, is always well manured,
            from a compost of cow's dung, earth, and sea-weed, when it can
            be got, prepared during the previous summer and harvest, and
            laid on the top, and turned under. Dung is very seldom laid on
            that part of the infield which is laboured for potatoes, from an opi-
            nion that the potatoes are softer and more watery when the land
            has been dunged, than otherwise.  By this management, it is evi-
            dent that the land must be greatly exhausted, and must require a
            very great addition to the usual quantity of manure, to yield any-
            thing like a tolerable crop, the following year.  In some places, the
            infield has been sown with bear, year after year, and has never been
            known to produce any other crop, or once permitted to lie ley.
               The outfield is uniformly laboured to oats, with the exception
            of as much of it as will grow the remaining quantity of potatoes
            required for the family.  Sometimes, though rarely, a little out-
            field bear is tried on the land that was laboured to potatoes, the
            previous year.  All the outfield is manured, whether intended for
            a crop of oats or potatoes; but with this difference, the oats are
            sowed first, and then the manure is carried and spread, and both
            are harrowed in together; whereas the manure for the potatoes is
            spread on the stubble, and delved under.  Sometimes, the pota-
            toes are planted in the furrow, and covered with the next feal ;
            and sometimes, the ground is delived first, and the potatoes dibbled
            in afterwards.  The manure for the outfield is composed of cow's
            dung, earth carried from the hill during the summer or latter part
            of harvest, and sea-weed, when it can be got.  These are laid, in
            alternate layers, in small heaps over the lands intended to be
            brought under crop in the spring.  When the voar or seed-time
            arrives, these are delved down and well mixed, as required; and
            when a piece of ground is delved and sowed, some carry this ma-
            nure in straw baskets, called "cashies;" others spread it with their
            hands, and one yokes himself or herself into the barrow.  The
            ground delved in the course of the day is generally sowed, manur-
            ed, and harrowed in the evening.
               Potatoes.--In some places, especially in those situated near
            fresh-water lochs, the potatoes are liable to be injured, and some-
            times destroyed, by mildew; but in general, they are la good crop,
            and much dependence is placed upon them.  About a fourth part
            of the arable lands is cropped with potatoes.  There is a great
            variety of potatoes in the parish; but the best, both as regards.
            quality and quantity, is of a light red colour, streaked with white


