
118 			  KINCARDINESHIRE.

Chief of the Forces in Scotland, Governor of Edinburgh Castle,
and one of the Lords of the Privy-Council. In 1661. he was
appointed Lord High Commissioner to the Scotch Parliament;
but, having abused his power, and rendered some powerful noble-
men his enemies, he lost the royal favour, and was deprived of
the various places of trust and honour which he held. On the
suggestion, it is believed, of the Earl of Lauderdale, who feared
lest the King's affections might return to him, and who, therefore,
wished him removed to a distance, he was afterwards appointed
governor of the new English Fort of Tangier, on the coast of
Africa, where he remained till the time of his death, which was
occasioned by a fall from a stair in 1673.
   Earl John Middleton was succeeded in his estates and titles by
his son Charles, who actdd as one of the principal secretaries of
State for England, from 1684 to 1688, when he followed the for-
tunes of his exiled master, and remained in France till he was at-
tainted, by act of Parliament, in 1695. He and his two sons
having embarked in the expedition fitted out in France, in 1708,
for the restoration of the Stuarts, were taken prisoners at sea by
Admiral Bing, but soon afterwards were liberated by the Queen's
orders, and no more appeared in public life.
   The lands continued in the possession of the Middletons till
1777, when they were purchased from the heirs of Lady Diana
Middleton, by Sir John Stuart, BarL, the maternal grandfather
of the present proprietor, and, at the time of his death, one of the
Barons of Exchequer of Scotland. Like the lands of Balbegno,
they are now worth more than five times the original sum that
was paid for them.
   The only other antiquity, to be noticed, is the Gannacby
Bridge. It is built across the North Esk, on two steep rocks,
and forms the communication between Fettercairn and Edzell.
The arch is about 30 feet high, and 52 wide; and yet the quan-
tity of water in the river, in: August 1829, almost completely filled
it The original bridge was. built by James Black, tenant in
Wood, parish of Edzell, in 1732, at an expense of 300 merks
Scotch. Being too narrow from parapet to p`r`pet, it was
widened by adding another arch to the side of it, so as to make it
about 20 feet wide. This was done in 1796 by Lord Adam Gor-
don, and the Honourable William Maule, now lord Panmure,
at their own expense, said to have amounted to L.300.
   Mension-Houses.--about three-quarters of a mile north by West
from the Gannachy Bridge, on a rising ground, a few hundred yards


