
356                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

one found near the same place.  It supposed that it had been
discharged from a wall-piece, and that the wall-piece had been
fired from the Castle of Inverugie, on the opposite side of the ri-
ver.  These antiquities are noticed here in consequence of hav-
ing been investigated by Mr Arbuthnot, and a record of them
preserved in his musuem.
   Upon the top of Meethill, about a mile and a quarter from Pe-
terhead, there was a tumulus which had been allowed to remain
for ages untouched; and tradition assigned to it the place where
justice had been administered, and where the ashes of some chief
reposed.
  The inhabitants of Peterhead received the promise of a perpe-
tual right to this tumulus, and about a quarter of an acre of ground
around it, in order to build a tower upon it, in honour of Earl
Grey and his political principles.  In digging for a foundation a
stone crypt was found, containing an urn, or what had been used;
as such very different in shape, however, from common urns, be-
ing long and broad, and much in the shape of a bowl or disb.
Around the mouth, it was ornamented by a band of circular im-
pressions, in depth nearly one-eighth of an inch, ai3d in field ra-
ther larger than a shilling.  The human remains found were very
few, being only a fragment or two of the leg or thigh bones, and
part of the lower jaw, with the teeth still adhering.  These re-
mains were placed in a glass case, and exhibited to the public, at
one shilling a head, and the proceeds applied towards the expense
of the tower; which, however, still remains in an unfinished
state.
   On the north side of the Den of Boddam, in a deep morass,
there are various pits, generally known by the name of the Picts
Camps; but they are with greater probability supposed to have
been an encampment of the Danes, when, they made landings on
the east coast of Scotland.
   Public Buildings.-The Town-House, situated in Broad Street,
was built in 1788.  It consists of two floors and a ground area.
The ground floor is used for shops, the first, floor is occupied for
school-rooms, and the second is used for public business.  It is
surmounted by a handsome spire of granite, 125 feet in height.
   The parish church is situated at the entrance of the town; it
was built, in 1803, and is calculated to contain upwards of 1800
sitters,  It also has a spire built of granite, 118 feet in height.
The building of this church gave rise to an important question,


