
66			PERTHSHIRE.

of the predicatory friars of Perth." The friars, some time after
they got possession of it, suffered it to fall into decay.
   5th. The Chapel of St Ann, mother of the Virgin Mary. It
was situated at the south side of St John's Church. The time of
its foundation is uncertain.  Sir Walter Eviot, of the family of the
Eviots of Balhousie, was chaplain many years before 1528. It
had an hosphtal adjoining for the entertainment of poor people.
   6th.  St James's Chapel.  It was situated at the south side of St
John's Church.  It was dedicated not only to the Apostle James,
but also to St Thomas Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury.  About
the year 1400, the chapel fell into decay, and a new one was built
by the alderman and community of the burgh, chiefly by the as-
sistance which they received froin William Whitson, a burgess.
   7th.  Allareit or Chapel of Loretto.  It was situated near the head,
and on the north side of the South Street.
   8th.  St Paul's Chapel.  It was-situated at the north-west corner
of the street called New Row.  It was founded December 25,
1434, by John Spens of Glendlewglie, or Glen Douglas.  It had
an hospital adjoining for the entertainment of strangers, and of
poor and infirm people.
   9th.  The Rood Chapel or Chapel of the Holy Cross.  Mr Cant,
in his History of Perth, says "it stood at the South Street port,
on the north side."
   l0th.  The Cbapel of St Katherine.  According to the descrip-
tion in the foundation charter, it was situated at the west end of
Perth, "at the Clay-pots." It was founded June 19, 1523, by
Sir John Tyrie, who, for many years, was provost of, the Collegiate
Church of Methven.  At the west side of it there was founded at
the same time, a house "for the entert`inment of poor travellers
coining thither."
   All these chapels, as we'l as the monastery churches and parish
church, had altars in them, founded and consecrated to the honour
of particular saints, at which masses were celebrated, and prayers
offered, for the souls of the founders or of their relatives.  Each
altar had its particular chaplain, or more than one when it happen-
ed to be dedicated to two or more saints, which, for want of suffi-
cient room, was frequently the case.  Each chaplain had a yearly,
stipend of L. 10 Scots, besides occasional emoluments.  The priests
and chaplains, who were very numerous, besides performing ser-
vice at the altars, generally followed the business of the law as pub
lic notaries.


