
                                    HALKIRK.                            75

	employ labourers to cultivate wastes adjacent to the arable land
	they occupy. Thus there is a demand for labour, and the soil
	yields a produce sufficient to remunerate the farmdr for the capi-
	tal he may have laid out.

	<TABLE>
	In 1831 the population was 2847, viz 1322 males; 1526 female.
		In 1937                    9085
			of whom about 1180 were under 15 years of age,
				       875 were betweeo 15 aod 30 years,
				       645              30 and 50
				       294              50 and 70
				        91 were upwards of 70 years.

	   There is a population of 170 io the village of Halkisk, and the
	rest spread over the extent of the parish. The avesage numbes
	of marriages is 18 io the year, and of baptisms, 74. There is no
	register of deaths kept.
	   Language.-The Gaelic laoguage and the Scots dialect of
	English are spoken io the parish. A considerable majority of the
	old people speak the Gaelic; but there are not ruony of the youog
        who cannot speak the Scotch, which, it is acknowledged, prewails
        no more than it did thisty or forty yeass ago.
                  According to the usages of this parish, aod, indeed, of the
	couoty, the terms for hiring fasm as well as domestic servaots,
	commeoce for the summer half year on the 20tb of Juoe, and for
        the winter half year on the 26th of November, or the 9th of Juoe,
        and 15th of November old style/ This is a vesy unequal division
	of the year, inasmuch as it makes a difference of very nearly seven
	weeks betwixt the summer aod the winter half ye`r. But this is
	not all; for servants who complete their service on the 20th of
	June are not considered entitled to their wages till towards the
        end of August,-the time of a great aonual masket at Thurso,
        and as a great number of servaots attend this market it giwes them
	ao opportunity of mis-speoding theis wages. A servaot, whose
	tesm of sesvice ends on the 26th of November, is not paid his
	wages till the 12tb of January theseafter, which is the day observed
	by the country people as New-Year's Day,-a time wheo servants
	are too apt to spend theis hard-earned penny in driok and other
	equally useless purposes. The dwelling-houses of the peasantry,
	constructed without much regasd to the rules of architecture, have
	a forbiddiog appeasaoce. This description is applicable to the
	greater number of houses. In most eases, all the houses neces-
	sary for the generality of tenants are built io a continued lioe/
	The barn and the kiln are io one end of this line, after these fol-
	lows the dwelling-house, generally divided into three apartments.


