
128                        SHETLAND.

     The rams are generally let to the ewes about the beginning of
December.
     The principal diseases to which the sheep are liable, are the
Vinster, the Rot or green-sickness, the Sturdy, the Liver com-
plaint, the Water or Quarquabus, the Blindness, and the Scab. *
     Swine.- Every family keeps one, and many families keep two
swine, which they feed and kill about Candlemas, for their own
use. Several also keep herds of swine, which are sent to the hill
or common pasture during the summer, and are again admitted
into the farms, as soon as the potatoes are reaped, to dig up and
to turn down, in short, to commit every species of destruction at
pleasure. When driven to the hill for the summer, they have no
other food than such as they can procure for themselves, and con-
sequently the best parts of the pasture are rooted up and destroy-
ed. Roots of plants and earth-worms constitute the principal food:
but occasionally birds' nests afford a savoury morsel; but still
more, a young lamb or a weak sheep. The native breed of
swine is very small, with a long nose very cartilaginous, and
small ears standing upright; and when be puts on his winter
covering, a more ugly animal can hardly be conceived to exist.
He has a profusion of long stiff bristles, and underneath a close
coat of coarse wool. Of his bristles and wool a very strong
and elastic rope is made, which is used for tethering horses and
cows. Notwithstanding his revolting appearance, when well fed,
he would disgrace no board. He is very delicate pork.
     A great improvement in the breed, both in appearance and size,
has lately been introduced by means of swine brought to the
islands by some of the Greenland ships. A young swine, fifteen
days old, and of the native breed, costs from 1s. to Is. 3d.; and
one of the same age, but of the improved breed, from 1s. 3d. to 1s
8d. A full grown swine, that is, one of from one to two years old,
and of the native breed, when fed, costs 8s. or 10s.; but some of
the improved breed have sold as high as from L.1 to L.1, 10s.
The usual selling price of pork, when fresh, is 2d. per pound.
     A young swine is here known by the name of a runny or grice;
one fed about the fireside, a patty; one with young, a silik; and
a boar is called a gaat.
     Theya are liable to a complaint called the gricifer, which de-
prives them of the use of their hinder legs. They very seldom
if ever recover of it.

<FOOTNOTE>A particular description of these diseases will be found in the manuscript.


