
                         HAMILTON.                             263

years ago, near the margin of a spouty ditch in the high parks of
Hamilton.
	There are abundance of fish in the Clyde and its tributaries.
of these, the Leuciscus rutilus, roach or braize, is the most un-
common. The other species are the salmon, trout, Pike, perch,
loach, minnow, lampreys, silver eels, and small flounders. The
lampreys may be congregated in vast quantities by throwing a piece
of carrion into the water. *
	That disputed species, the par or samlet of Pennant, abounds
at particular seasons. Dr Fleming, in his History of British
Animals, observes, that this species is now "generally consi-
dered as the young of Salmo trutta, or sea-trout, or of the sal-
mon." That it is not the young of the sea-trout is certain; for, al-
though we have myriads of pars, no such species as sea-trout was
ever found here. It may be said, they are spawned below, and come
up the water; but it does not appear how so small a fish as a par
could get over Blantyre dam, three miles below Hamilton. The
lowering of the dam at Millheugh, on the Avon, now going on,
will allow the passage of the salmon, but not of smaller fish; and
if after this the par is found above the dam, we may conclude it
is the spawn of the salmon. Nous verrons.
	The eggs of insects seem to be distributed as universally, and
with as much care, as the seeds of plants. The number of these
"little wonders" inhabiting this part of Scotland is truly astonish-
ing; and, although some pretty good collections of them have been
made, they have not hitherto been half investigated. The follow-
ing are a few of the most interesting: Coleoptera, or beetles. 1.
Silpha quadripunctata. An insect of the above species was found
here in 1826. This is an exceedingly rare insect. 2. Rhagium
bifaciatum. 3. Leptura quadrifaciata. To these we may add the
three following species, namely, the Scarabaus melolontha, S. brun-
neus, and S. horticola. Dr Rennie mentions the Melolontha or
cockehaffer as occurring (in this end of the island) only at Sorn
in Ayrshire. It is certainly fortunate for Scotland that an insect
so very destructive in its habits is of so very rare occurrence; but
still several places in this country are occasionally subjected to its
ravages. In the summer of 1833, a great deal of grass was de-
stroyed by this insect, and many thousands of them were caught
at Chatelherault.

<FOOTNOTE>The horse muscle, Mytillus anatinus and M. Cygneus, are plentiful in the Clyde.
They sometimes contain small pearls; but these are in general coarse and ill-coloured.


