
                           GALASHIELS.                         23

hand.   In the former statement the looms were 43, now they amount
to 132 ; but considering the number that are not employed in
blanketing, or other cloth of greater breadth than that woven at
the former period, the looms now in use are equal to 187 of the
old.
 The following is an average list of the operatives now employed ;
their hours of working ; and the renumeration of their labours.

<TABLE>
16 men (slubbers) and 80 children engaged by the year, and working
   11 hours per day, receive per annum,                                L. 1387  4  0
   The children received 6d. a-day. They are from 8 to 14 years of age.
20 to 36 spinners paid by the piece;--time in their own hands,            1092  8  0
100 weavers paid as above, and time their own,                            2600  0  0
60 dyers and dressers, 10 hours a-day,                                    1560  0  0
46 women sorting wool and yarn,                                            520  0  0

 It is probable that with the improvements of machinery, this
branch of manufacture, which owes so much to that cause already,
will be farther extended.   The Honourable Board of Trustees,
by offering annual premiums for the best cloths at a given price,
and by encouraging the judicious outlay of capital on the enlarge-
ment and improvement of machinery, contribute greatly to that
extension.
 It may be remarked, that children earning 3s. a-week, instead of
proving a burden, are a help to their parents; and that in general,
though employed at the early age of from eight to fourteen years,
their education is not neglected.   It is the practice of parents,
whilst some of their children are employed in the machinery houses,
to have others at school; and so to arrange, that periods of labour
alternate with those of learning; and thus, as funds are provided
by the children themselves,  they are much better educated than
those of many other places where the poor have fewer resources.
By the habits of industry, too, which they early acquire, they are
much more qualified for future service, or the duties of active life,
than such as spend their early years in idleness.   It is evident
from their appearance that they enjoy excellent health, and that
they are happy at their light though constant work.   There can
be no training of the volatile minds of youth equal to that which
is maintained at the factories: and it may be observed, that the
profits arising from a water wheel are not to be estimated by the
quantity of human labour, for which the wheel is a substitute,
but by the steadiness of application which it extracts of all the
hands co-operating with its own movements.   No time may be
lost: a moment's inattention is detected; the diligence acquired


