
     Of Forgue.

ney, and to employ labourers, under direction of an attentive
and capable overseer.  We have reason to conclude, that were
there a bridge thrown over the Dovern, at Marnoch, and an-
other over the burn at Auchintender, on the great road to
Aberdeen, through the Garioch, it would contribute much to
the advantage of this country.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The crop in 1782, was re-
markably deficient, and the oat-meal very bad; in so much,
that had it not been for the importation, numbers would have
perished.  Some of the heritors commissioned a cargo of pease,
and fold them out at prime cost to the most necessitous fami-
lies.  Messrs. Phyn and Ellis*, merchants in London, gave
a liberal gratuity of barley and pease, amounting to 800
bushels, to be distributed among the most distressed families in
Forgue and Auchterless.  It was supposed, that the crop did
not yield provision for the parishioners, for the half of the
year 1783.  At the desire of the heritors, the session lifted
40 L., and disposed of it to the same purpose, over and above
their ordinary distribution.  The air is salubrious, the peo-
ple, in general, healthy, sober, industrious, charitable, hospi-
table, and most punctual in attending public worship+.

     VOL. XII. O o

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mr. Phyn is an of Forgue, and Mr. Ellis a native of Auchterless.
+There is no village in the parish, and consequently no manufacture.  The
women are occupied in spinning linen yarn, from flax given out by merchants
in the parish.

</UNREADABLE>

The usual fuel in this parish, is peat and turf, which is brought from Foud-
land; but, on account of the great distance and difficulty of procuring it, may
of the parishioners are obliged to bring coals, at a great expense, from Banff
and Portsoy, our nearest sea-port towns; which are distant from the centre of
the parish, at least, 17 English miles.  Which circumstance, we think, may be
adduced as an argument for taking off the present heavy duty on coal.

