
     of Paisley.

gauze was first attempted at Paisley, in imitation of that of
Spittalfields in London.  The success was beyond the most
sanguine expectations of those who engaged in it.  The in-
ventive spirit, and the patient application of the workmen;
the cheapness of labour at that time, and the skill and taste
of the masters, gave it every advantage for being naturalised
there.  The consequence was, that nice and curious fabrics
were devised, and such a vast variety of elegant and richly
ornamented gauze was issued from that place, as outdid eve-
ry thing of the kind that had formerly appeared.  Spittal-
fields was obliged to relinquish the manufacture.  Companies
came down from London to carry it on at Paisley, where it
prospered and increased, it is believed, beyond any manufac-
ture which any town in Scotland could boast of.  Indeed, it
not only became the great distinguishing manufacture of that
town, but it filled the country round, to the distance of 20
miles; and the gentlemen engaged in it had not only ware-
houses in London and Dublin, but they had correspondents
upon the continent, and shops for vending their commodities
even in Paris itself.  It is true, that the change of fashion,
upon which this trade entirely depends, has of late had an
unfavourable aspect towards it:  But there is reason to hope, 
that it will smile upon it again; and, in the mean time, some
of the principal bouses in that place, while they are pushing
their former branch as far as they can, have entered into the
muslin manufacture with their accustomed ardour; but, I
must add, considering that this is a branch which has as yet
no fixed principles, with a judgment and prudence by which
men of business are ever distinguished from rash and unwary
adventurers.                                         
   It appears, from the best calculation that could be made,
that, in the year 1784, the manufactures of Paisley, in silk
gauze, lawn and linen gauze, and white sewing thread, a-

     VOL. VII. I


