
350                ARGYLESHIRE.

sion-house of the ancient Macquaries) the earlier proprietors of
these estates; the natural beauties, of the grounds interspersed
with thriving plantations; the splendid panoramic view of Ben More,
and the other Mull mountains; and the Sound, with its green
islands,-all tend to create in the scenery around the mansion
house, beauties of a peculiar and very high order. From the
drawing-room windows of the mansion, looking towards Mrs Cle-
phane Maclean's, and Mr Clark's property in Mull, and about.
two miles to.the north, is to be seen, on Loggan Ulva, the sin.
gular cataract of Esse-forse. A stream collected in the mountains
seems to make way with impetuosity down the hill side, and de.
scribing in its tumbling course two minor waterfalls, it descends
in one unbroken sheet from a precipice, 90 feet high, into the
Ulva North Loch.
 The Ulva garden, containido, about two acres, is well stock-
ed with every kind, and variety of fruit, and so early are the
productions, that strawberries are ripe here as sidon as that fruit
appears in the Edinburgh market.
 The Ulva church and manse, two ineat and fine-looking build-
ings, erected in 1827, are distant about five minutes walk to the
north of the mansion. Towards the Sound, and beside the Ferry,
are the Ulva Inn, smith ,y, merchant's shop, f errymaii's and,otber
houses. The inn, during last year, was put by Mr Clark in an ef,
ficient state of repair, and a new innkeeper having taken the esta-
blishMeDt, every accommodation can now be given to parties oil
pleasure-trips coming to visit Staffa, and the scenery around,-boats
and men being at all times in readiness.
 The usage, or fine known by the name of 11 Merchela mulierum)"
it is said, lately existed in Ulva, and Doctor Johnson having re-
peated the tale, it has attracted somewhat more notice than it me-
rits, and has become a favourite source of debate with tourists and-
antiquarians. rjohnson says, 14 Enquiring after the relics of for-
mer manners, I found, that in Ulva, and I think nowhere else, Is
continued the payment of the Merchota. mulierum ` fine in old
times due to, the laird at the marriage of a virgin.  This paymentt
like others was, for want of money, made anciently in the pro
of the land. Macquarie was used to demand a sheep, for which semilar
now takes a crown." The same is told of Sark, where a similar
fine was said to be claimed and paid. Macolm IlL is supposed to
have abolished it. Craig maintains it was imported from France


