
			DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                  961

quoad civilia, and the latter, although never formally annexed,
quoad sacra.
   By the form of the presentation to the minister, he is presented
to the united churches of Dunkeld and Dowally. At neither place
is there a manse and glebe; but he receives a pecuniary equiva-
lent. From the circumstance of presenting to the united churches,
the people, in common speech, though erroneously, have, for the
last century, called Dunkeld the Parish of Dunkeld; and, under
the Reform Act, proprietors in the town of Dunkeld, in claiming
a right to vote in the county, ddscribe their property as lying in
the said city, and within the united parishes of Dunkeld and
Dowally.
   At what period the cathedral church of Dunkeld was united to
the church and parish of Dowally is not known.
   Topographical Appearances.--The situation of Dunkeld is very
remarkable, being surrounded on all sides by hills of great height
and of diversified forms. Travellers, from the general appearance
of the place, have very graphically compared it to a punch-bowl.
From the position and natural advantages of the ground, it must
anciently have been a valuable encampment of our warlike ances-
tors. It is situated at the entrance of the vale of Atholl and
Strath-braan, and at the outlet leading from Dunkeld by Birnam
to the opening or pass of the Grampians, which overlooks the val-
ley where Orrea, one of the five Pictish towns, was situated.  The
immediate hill to the east of Dunkeld, called Newtyle, * commands
the whole of the Stormont, and a magnificent view of the valley of
Strathmore. The other surrounding hills furnished posts for
learning the advance of an enemy, and affording time to the camp
below to arrange the proper place where to meet and give them
battle. In the year 138, the Romans encamped east of the Gram-
pians, within six miles of Dunkeld, but never ventured within the
fastnesses of Atholl.
   Dunkeld `ppears to have been, at one time, covered with water
to a great height. The surface of the ground to the eastward is
quite a level, but to the westward it is irregular, and, in many
places, presents very singular forms, which can only be attributed
to the violent action of the waters.
   With the exception of the site of the present town of Dunkeld,
the whole vicinity is converted into pleasure-grounds.

<FOOTNOTE>From a point on the top of this hill may be distinctly seen, without a teloscopa,
the city of Perth and its bridge, together with Dunkeld and its bridge, and the sur-
rounding alpine scenery.
        PERTH                                           3P


