
			    KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.           1273

	by purchase, some years ago, 280 acres of moss below Thornhill.
	There is no stream here, the level of the Goodie being too low, nor a
	water-wheel to carry away the moss from the spades of the work-
	men; but reservoirs are made in the higher moss, called Moss
	Flanders, for receiving rain water, and from these, by sluices, the
	operation of floating is carried on.  Although the moss here is
	very deep, and the labour and expense great, yet, of the 280 acres,
	170 have been cleared; and the remainder diminishes daily.
	   On a part of this moss, and higher up the Goodie, about 75
	acres have been cleared by the same system, by Messrs Sim,
	Doig, Paterson, and their predecessors, who are still very in-
	dustrious and successful in thus adding to the extent of their farms.
	   The trees found below this moss are of the same character as
	those found in Kincardine, consisting chiefly of large oak, and ly-
	ing on the clay with their tops towards the east.  It is the gene-
	ral opinion, that no moss nor forest existed between this moss and
	that of Kincardine ; and, on the supposition that the trees were
	cut down by human labour, this is the position in which they
	would naturally be laid, because the space to the east of the ori-
	ginal forest being open, the first cut trees would be made to fall
	in that direction.
	   In addition to these improvements, in this parish, it is gratifying
	to refer to a most important one by Colonel Graham of Meikle-
	wood, for an account of which see the Quarterly Journal of Agri-
	culture, and the Prize Essays of the Highland Society of Scotland
	for March 1832, from which the substance of the two following
	paragraphs is taken.
	   Colonel, then Major, Graham had 130 acres of good clay land
	in this parish covered by moss to the depth of ten feet.  He had
	no water power of sufficient elevation near this moss ; but, as it
	was near the Forth, and running parallel to it, he adopted the plan
	not hitherto employed of raising water from the Forth by a steam-
	engine, for carrying the moss into that river by means of spade
	labour.  He erected an engine of ten horse power, which, by
	means of pipes, forced as much water into a cistern at the engine-
	house, and from that into a large reservoir in the moss, as kept
	25 men constantly employed.  This was allowed to flow as usual
	by a sluice from one side of the reservoir, in the direction of the
	portion of land which was to be cleared, and the 25 men, with
	their spades, were skilfully and actively employed in loading the


