
222                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

about 30 feet in depth, and when seen at a distance constitutes a
beautiful object.
   Geology.-The rocks that predominate in the parish are of the
sandstone and trap formation: the former occupies the lower, and
the latter the higher parts of the district.  Of these rocks there
are several quarries, some of them of excellent quality.  Many
years ago, a small seam of coal was discovered at Caverton edge, in
this parish; but the investigation was not carried far enough to
be followed up with any beneficial result.  Both peat and marl
once existed in the district,--the one mostly incumbent on the
other; and imbedded in these, animal and vegetable remains have
been found.  "In wester moss, nuts, roots, pieces of large oak and
other trees have been dug up, also the scull of a bison, and the
horns of a red-deer very large."  These horns, which at present are
in the possession of Mr Robert Church, farmer, Moss-tower, have
seven branches, and are supposed to be in weight about two stones.
At what distance from the surface these remains were discovered,
it is impossible now to determine.
    Soil.--The soil in the parish is various : that on the lower grounds
towards the Teviot is a light mould, while that on the higher grounds
towards the south partakes more of a clayey character.  On the
same farm, however, there is often a great variety of soil ; but the
crops which it yields are for the most part rich and abundant.
   Zoology.--This parish presents to the zoologist no rare species
of animals.  In the rivers, salmon and trout are in great abundance,
and of excellent quality.  The trout of the Kale is peculiarly deli-
cious in its flavour. Hares, rabbits, partridges, and pheasants
abound in the district, and on Ceesford moor the heathcock is oc-
casionally seen. The starling, that most tractable of birds, visits
the parish yearly, and often nestles among the rocky cliffs that
overhang the Kale.  Within these few years, a cuckow was disco-
vered in this place, in the nest of a small bird.  With great care it
was fed for some weeks on small pieces of flesh, and on these it
seemed to thrive well.  It was extremely voracious, and, so far
from being discontented with its situation, always appeared quite
at home.
   Botany.--The parish presents, upon the whole, a wooded appear-
ance.  Almost all kinds of forest trees flourish here, and appear to
be quite congenial to the soil.  The most common species, however,
is the fir tribe, of which there is a forest consisting of 360 acres
                               3


