
				RERRICK.                     355

the name of the parish, although it may be difficult to give any
more plausible conjecture on the subject. The parish first ob-
tained its present name towards the close of the seventeenth cen-
tury, when a new church was erected upon the lands of Rerwick,
forming part of the estate of Orroland, now the property of the
infant son and heir of the late Robert Cutlar Fergusson, M. P.
for the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright.
	The parish of Rerrick is ten miles in length, and the average
breadth is about six miles. It is bounded on the north by the pa-
rish of Kelton ; on the east by the parish of Buittle and a Bay
of Solway at the mouth of the water of Urr; on the south by the
Solway ; and on the west by the parish of Kirkcudbright.
	The surface of Rerrick is generally broken and varied. To-
wards the north, it assumes a highland appearance, with a frontier
of pretty considerable mountains, the most remarkable of which,
both in height and picturesque character, is Bengairn. This
mountain, covered with heath, and surmounted by a Cairn of al-
most Druidical antiquity, rises to a beight of about 1200 feet
above the level of the sea, and overlooks the Solway in all its
length, commanding a view, which in variety, magnificence, and
extent, is scarcely to be surpassed on the most romantic shores of
Scotland. From the base of the hills on the north the parish
trends towards the south and west, exhibiting as it approaches the
sea a series of bold and lofty headlands, and terminating in an iron-
bound coast, of which it is enough to say, that it furnished to
the author of Waverley the materials for much of the scenery of
Ellangowan. In the romance of Guy Maunering, the reader
will find the shores of Rerrick delineated by the hand of a,
master.
	The traveller who desires to visit this parish to advantage,
should approach it from the village of Dalbeattie on the east.
The road, after crossing the Water of Urr, and skirting the gra-
nite rocks of Kirkennan, approaches Orchardton, the seat of Co-
lonel Maxwell, through the Holms of Glenyarrick. Few places
in the south of Scotland are richer in natural beauty than this.
It is situated upon a deeply indented bay of Solway, and sur-
rounded on the east and west by the wooded promontories of Torr
and Almorness. Towards the north, again, it is encompassed by
an amphitheatre of hills, the most striking of which are Skreel
and Bengairn. If the traveller has time, it will well repay his.


