
766                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Character of the People.-The great proportion of the people
are industrious in their habits; and although the labouring popula-
tion enjoy but very limited means of subsistence, yet they are dis-
tinguished by a spirit of independence, and are generally desirous
of supporting themselves and their families by their own industry;
and even the poorest are anxious to secure for their children the
advantages of education.

                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Within the last thirty or forty years, a vast addi-
tion has been made to the extent of cultivation, although a consi-
demble pgrtion of the land still remains in a waste and uncultivat-
ed state.  On some properties, by judicious draining, liming, &c.
the number of acres under cultivation might be greatly added to,
both with improvement to the climate, and profit to the proprietor.
The average rent of arable land per acre is from 10s. to L.1;
but some in the neighbourhood of the villages is let as high
as L.2, 2s. per acre.  In good pasture, the average rate for the
grazing of an ox or cow is from L.1, 10s. to L.2 for the summer
season.
   Live-stock.-The breeds of sheep most prevalent are Leicester,
south-down, and black-faced, but little attention, however, is now
paid to breeding and rearing of sheep in this parish, except by Mr
Lumsden of Auchry, who is one of the most spirited and intelli-
gent agricultural improvers in this part of the country.
   Attempts have been made to introduce various foreign breeds of
cattle, sucli as the Teeswater and Galloway; but it has general-
ly been found that, from the climate, the want of shelter, and the
inferiority of pasture, they have degenerated; and many of the in-
telligent farmers prefer the native Buchan breed to all others.
   The style of husbandry pursued is fully equal to that in any part
of Scotland.  Not only the larger farmers, but even the smallest
crofters, adhere to a regular rotation of cropping, and bestow great
pains in tilling and cleaning their ground.  Nothing has afforded
such facilities for, and given such an impulse to, the reclaiming of
waste land, as the introduction of bone manure, which is very exten-
sively, used by every farmer.  But another stimulus has been given,
to agricultural improvement by the system lately introduced, of
transporting fat cattle by sea to London; from which the farmer has
the profit both of breeding and of feeding, besides the advantage of
securing a much greater quantity of manure for his farm.  The
                              4


