
                        FORGAN..                                       513

  Newport the principal place of resort for those travelling to the
  north-east.
              In the year 1807, the attention of the counties of Fife and
	Forfar was directed to the risk and inconvenience connected with
	the Ferry across the Tay. At that period, there were 25 boats
	on the passage, manned by upwards of 100 men and boys. But
	these boats and crews were found to be alike unsuitable for the
	safety and accommodation of the public ; and as upon investigation
	it was found that the ferry produced a revenue adequate, not only
	for the maintenance of a better system, but for providing funds for
	the erection of suitable piers and landing-places adapted to all
	states of the tide, an Act of Parliament was obtained in 1819,
	constituting the Justices of the Peace and Commissioners of Sup-
	ply in tbe two counties of Fife and Forfar, with some official per-
	sons, trustees for erection of piers, and otherwise improving and
	regulating the ferry. Soon after this act had been obtained, the
	trustees were induced to direct their attention to the advantage of
	substituting a steamboat in place of the numerous sail-boats by
	which the ferry had been previously maintained, and, after care-
	ful inquiries, tbey decided upon making the experiment with a
	double or twin steam-boat, such as had been in use on the
	American rivers, and also at Hamburgh, and on the Mersey, near
	Liverpool. A vessel of this description was accordingly built un-
	der their direction, at an expense of betwixt L. 4000 and L. 5000,
	and placed on the ferry about the end of the year 1821. This
	vessel was made to ply alternately from Dundee to Woodhaven
	and Newport, but, as this place was found to be very inconvenient
	for passengers, it was resolved, in July 1822, that the boat should
	call at Newport only. In consequence of this arrangement, a great
	advantage immediately arose to the public, and the intercourse
	rapidly increased; but as the trustees were bound to maintain a
	separate ferry at Woodhaven, a new Act of Parliament was ap-
	plied for and obtained in 1822, by which the trustees were autbo-
	rized to substitute one landing-place, and to erect piers at New-
	port and Dundee, for the purposes of the ferry. Very complete
	ferry harbours were accordingly erected at these places, and an
         additio  nal double or twin steam-boat was procured. So that from
	having been, as it was at the date of the last Statistical Account
	of the parish, one of the worst and most dangerous, it now ranks
	among thesafe, most expeditious, and convenient ferries in the
	kingdom. Besides the steam-boat, which during the day affords

            FIFE.                                    K K


