
                            CULLEN.                          331

   family among them may enjoy in abundance the comforts of life.
   The almost invariable habit which prevails, of intermarrying
   with those of their own craft, and the no less general practice
   which obtains, of every fisherman's son following his father's oc-
   cupation, prove very serious drawbacks to the progress of this or-
   der of the community in the march of improvement; having the
   effect of rendering them a distinct class of society, with senti-
   ments, sympathies, and habits peculiar to themselves.  Until some
   amalgamation shall take place between them and their brethren
   of terra firma, their advancement in the improvements of civilized
   life must necessarily be slow and partial.
     Habits and Amusements.-There is no marked peculiarity in
   the habits of the people, as regards language, dress, or mode
   of living. The names more peculiar to the parish, and of old-
   est standing are, Anderson, Coul, Davidson, Finlay, Forsyth,
   Gardiner, Hay, Ogilvie, Runcie, Simpson, Straban, and Wright.
   In consequence of the frequent identity of Christian and surnames
   among the fishing population, caused by intermarriages, certain
   extra names are used to distinguish individuals.  Thus, there are
   several heads of families of the respective names of Alexander Ad-
   dison, James Addison, and William Addison, who are thus dis-
   tinguished, viz.  Alexander Addison, Saunders; Alexander Addi-
   son, Kitty's Saunie; Alexander Addison, Drodlie; James Addi-
   son, Kitty's Jamesy ; James Addison, Tatie fiddler ; James Addi-
   son, Bubblie; William Addison, Sheepie; William Addison, Boatie-
   row ; William Addison, Calkinapin ; William Addison, May's
   Wilsie.  Snuffing and smoking are almost universal among the la-
   bouring classes. Smuggling, which at one time-prevailed so exten-
   sively in the district, owing to the facilities which its proximity
   to the sea afforded for the traffic in foreign contraband goods, is
   now altogether unknown; and from the vigilance exercised for
   the preservation ofgame, poaching may be considered as in a great
   measure impracticable.
    In former times, at Halloween, Christmas, and other holidays,
   when our manufactories were in their most flourishing state, the
   younger part of the community resorted to the sands and links of
   the bay of Cullen, for the purpose of playing foot-ball, running
   foot races, throwing the hammer, playing bowls, &c.  They left
   the town in procession, preceded by a piper and other music, and
   were attended by numbers from the adjacent districts.  The games


