
                                   AYR.                               61

     in those days having been in the practice of doing their business
     in open booths, on the sides of the streets. The Company appears
     to have had, for many years, no definite object in view, and was
     constituted about the time of the building of the Old Church, (then
     styled the New Church,)--the contributing of the merchants to the
     fitting up of the gallery, which still bears their name, having led
     to its formation. It is not shewn from their record book, which
     dates as far back as this period, what was the amount of their con-
     tributions to this object, as in the case of the Sailors' Society, nor
     yet does it appear that at first they were at the expense of finishing
     the whole of the loft. The front seat, and the three or four rows
     of benches immediately behind it, are only mentioned as the pro-
     perty which they claimed in it.  It is probable, however, that, in
     proportion as their funds increased, the whole gallery was in time
     fitted up by them, as it has long since become their exclusive pos-
     session.   Their funds originally arose wholly out of the sums re-
     ceived as the entry money of members, and the sole privilege which
     the members enjoyed was a right to sittings in the front of the
     loft, the other seats being let indiscriminately at a certain rate for
     each sitting. The seat rent amounted originally to L. 6 Scots
     for a front seat, and L. 3 for back seats, to sons and sons-in-
     law of members, while strangers were charged 20 merks for
     the former, and 10 merks for the latter. The admission money
     of members rose by degrees at different periods to L. 1, 11s. L. 2,
     L.2, 10s. L. 3, L. 3, 10s. L. 4, 4s. and finally, in 1818, to L. 6, 6s.
     Up to the above date, 1818, although the funds had been pro-
     gressively increasing, the Company seem to have had no spe-
     cific object in view in their application, further than giving oc-
     casional aid to decayed member, and indigent widows of mem-
     bers deceased; which, however, was entirely gratuitous on the
     part of the Association, none having any claim to it as a matter of
     right. In 1819, however, a committee was appointed to form a
     scheme for the benefit of decayed members' widows and orphans,
     on a systematic plan, which scheme was adopted on their report
     in 1820, and put in operation.  At this period, the capital of the
     company was L. 670, and in 1828, their funds had increased to
     L. 1140. At present they amount to L. 2000. Besides the re-
     venue arising from the admission-money of entrants, and the year-
     ly contributions of the members, there was the annual produce of
     the seat rents in their loft in the church, which was considerably
     increased, after it was repaired two or three years ago. It is need-
     less to mention here the regulations of the company. It is now


