
614                      ARGYLESHIRE,

nature of circumstances causing their erection and increase, it may
be said, suburbs of Glasgow and the other neighbouring towns,
causes affecting the prosperity of those places will naturally affect
the villages on the coast.
  The number of families in the united parish is 520, perma.
nently residing. It hasbeen found that the average number in a
family is 51/2 members.
   The number of insane, fatuous, blind, deaf and dumb, amounts
at present to 6.
   The people enjoy, on the whole, in a reasonable degree, the
ordinary comforts of life; and their standard of comfort, as to
dwellings and diet, is much above that to which many other por-
Cions of the population of the Highlands have, by hard necessity,
fallen. The peasantry are here spoken of. land, so far as en-
couraged or permitted to live in the habits proper to a well-condi-
tioned rural peasantry, or encouraged to improve that condition,
contentment with their situation and circumstances is a virtue pe-
culiarly exbibited in their character.
   The demoralizing business of smuggling has entirely ceased in
the parish, and, it is believed, entirely throughout the district of
Cowal. There are instances of poaching in game, though, not
numerous. There is no public pawnbroking.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-By estimate carefully made, though without ac-
tual survey, the number of imperial acres in the united parish,
either cultivated or occasionally in tillage, amounts to,2743. Of
these, 1,356 are in the parish of Dunoon proper, and 1387 in the
parish of Kilmun. The number of acres which have never been
cultivated is what remains of the estimated superficial contents of
the united parish, supposed to be about 180 Square mines, deduct.-
ing the number of imperial acres, stated above, and, perhaps, one-
third part of what has been devoted to planting within recent year.
In judging of the extent to which tillage might be still carried in
such soil climate, and circumstances as the surface of this parish
presents, much skill and practical judgment are demanded in form-
ing any opinion to which weight might be justly attached. But
grounding our opinion on the testimony of experienced persons
acquainted with the localities, it is thought, that, with a profitable
aplication of capital, nearly as many acres more as are now in ti-
lage might be added. to that number, which might at least yield
more profitable returns than now, by occasional. tillage, and by


