
     Of Coldingham.

ton, and runs into the sea at Eyemouth.  In this water there
are plenty of trouts of excellent quality, generally small:
there are indeed some pretty large, from 16 to 24 inches in
length, but none of the true salmon kind.  There is also a
beautiful lake of water, about a mile west of St. Abb's Head,
called Coldingham Loch.  It is of a triangular figure, about
a mile in circumference, and said to be several fathoms deep
in some parts: the water is clear, and must be produced from
springs, as there are no burns that run into it, and although
it has no visible outlet, the depth always appears to be the
same.  The only fish in it, are the perch from 5 to 8 inches
long, compact and firm in appearance, but dry eating.  This
lake appears to be well suited for a pleasure-boat, but there
is none on it at present.  It is situated many fathoms above
the level of the sea.  The extent of the sea-coast, in this pa-
rish, is about 6 miles from Eyemouth parish to that of Cock-
burnspath, and upon this part of the coast, the promontory
of St. Abb's Head is situated, about which, and on the west-
ward of it, the shore is dangerous and inaccessible, except at
Lumsden shore, at which there are several fishing boats,
and, on the eastward of St. Abb's Head, a considerable part
of the shore is smooth and of easy access, particularly at Cold-
ingham sands, and the farm of Northfield, where there are
also several fishing boats: but there is no harbour for ships in
this parish; the only harbour in Berwickshire being at Eye-
mouth, the best and most accessible of any between Holy
Island and Leith.  There is a fine bay between St. Abb's
Head and the fort of Eyemouth, in which ships bound for
Eyemouth cast anchor and wait the time of tide for going
into the harbour.  Great plenty of fish are caught in the sea,
on this part of the coast, such as haddocks, whitings, cod,
and ling; lobsters, crabs, and other shell fish; turbot, skate,
and herrings, all of excellent qualities, which, after supply-


