
     ofLongforgan.

   Carts.-The carts formerly used in this parish, and which
are still generally in used, measure, in length, over the top of
the coop, (box), 6 feet; in breadth, 3 feet 8 inches; in
depth, 1 foot 3 inches; and narrowing a little towards the
bottom, so as to contain about 26 cubic feet.  But the coops
now introduced measure, in length, 5 feet 3 inches, and
narrowing at the bottom to 4 feet 8 inches; and in breadth,
over the top, 4 feet 8 inches, narrowing to 3 feet 7 inches
at bottom, and 1 foot 3 inches in depth.  They contain
nearly the same cubic measure of 26 feet; but from their
shape, and being placed more forward upon the axle, they
are much lighter upon the horse, and an easier draught.
They answer very well with one horse for most purposes;
but with two they fatigue the horses much less, even with
a much greater load.

   Thrashing-mill.-In the year 1788, Mr Paterson set up
the first thrashing-mill in this part of the country; and now,
(1796), these are built, and building, fifteen in this parish
alone.  This powerful machine is, perhaps, one of the great-
est improvements in farming which the age has produced;
but it is now so well known, a description is scarce neces-
sary, and not easy to be understood without a drawing*.

     VOL. XIX. 3 T

<FOOTNOTE>

*The thrashing-mill at Castle-Huntly was built at first by one James Mor-
ris, an inhabitant of Longforgan, taken from one which had been set up for
some time before, at Mr Mains of Pous in Stirlingshire, and built by William
Jaffray, a mill-wright in Alloa, who finished the machine at Castle-Huntly
himself.  It consisted then simply of a horizontal wheel over the horses
heads, placed in a shade, and adjoining to the barn, with two levers of about
14 feet long, with a horse to each, which turned a lying shaft by a pinnon,
upon the other end of which was placed a vertical wheel, which turned a
cylinder, or drum, of about 4 feet diameter, and 5 feet long; upon which
was fixed fix thrashers, and to which the corn was conducted, after being laid
upon a breast of wood, by two fluted rollers, which were made to press


