
                        GAIRLOCTI.                        93

back. Instead of the deep falls of snow, and the long-continued
frosts that were wotit to starve the black-cattle, smother the sheep,
ind fertilize the soil in former years, we have now mild ' eather,
and very much rain. Notwithstanding the extreme wetness of the
climate, and the people's frequent exposure in the open air, their
principal employment being fishidg,-they are in general healthy,
and of robust constitutions.
   Geoloqy and Mineralogy.-This, and the neigbbouring parish
of Lochbroorn, afford numerous displays of interesting geological
phenomena. Old red sandstone and quartz rock abound, but
gneiss and its various subordinate formations may be considered
the prevailin- formation. Upwards of one hundred and fifty years
ago, when the science of mineralogy was comparatively in its in-
fancy in Scotland, and when the spirit of speculation and adventure
did not move with such bold strides as in later times, a Si'James
Kay sent several people tQ work at veins'of iron ore, on the estate
of Letterewe, along the north side of Lochmarce, in this parish.
I understood they continued to work successfully for several years;
but as wood was their sole fuel for conducting the operations, they
were obliged to desist when the wood in the neighbourhood was ex-
hausted. The ruins of one of the furnaces for working the ore are
within a few hundred yards of the manse of Poolewe; and those
of another are ten miles farther up, along the,north side of Loch-
inaree. A spot is pointed out to the passer by, near the east end
of Lochmaree, where they buried their dead. It is, to this day,
called 11 Cladh nani Sasganach," the burying-ground of the Eng-
lishmen. Highlanders look upon all who do not speak the Gaelic
language as Sasganaich, or Englishn-ten. At a later period, some
other individual, or perhaps the same, thought he had discovered
a vein of silver ore, in another place along the north 'Side of Loch-
inaree; but after digging to a considerable depth, the undertaking
was abandoned, without yielding a remunerating return to the
spirhted adventurer.
   Botany.-The rarer plants that are found in the parish are the
        Ajuga pyramidalis,
        Arbutus alpina,
        Cornus Sueeica,
        Hieracium alpinum
        Itubus charammorus,
        Salix herbacea,
        Saxifraffa tellaria,
        Saxifraia hypnoides,
        Serratula alpina,
        Thalictrum alpinum,
        Epipactus-longifolia.

    All the culinary plants usually cultivated in Scotland, grow
freely inthis parish, as well as all the common fruits. With're-
gard to plants us6d for medicinal purpqses, I know onl ,y six, viz.


