
         		    IRVINE.                            619

ches taught are more varied. It is only in the religious and moral
habits of the people that I fear there has been no corresponding
advancement.
	November 1839.

			PARISH OF IRVINE.
     		PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.
     		   THE REV. JOHN WILSON, A. M. MINISTER.*

		    I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Extent, &c.--THE parish is upwards of four miles in length, and
where its width is greatest, it is nearly two miles broad. On the
east and south-east, it is divided from the parish of Dreghorn by
the river Annick. It is divided from Kilwinning, on the west, by
the Garnock; and on the north-west, by a small stream called the
Redburn. On the south, the river Irvine separates it from the
parish of Dundonald; and on the north, it is bounded by the pa-
rish of Stewarton.
	The parish abounds in seams of coal. Good building stone is
found in various districts; more  especially, there is an extensive
quarry near the town, which has long been famed for the supply
which it affords of very superior oven soles.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Town.--Irvine, formerly written Irwyn and Irwine, is beautifully
situated on tbe north bank of the river Irvine, and not far from the
confluence of the Irvine and the Garnock. By the river from
which it takes its name, it is separated, as already stated, from the
parish of Dundonald. But although the ancient burgh, is so se-
parated, the extended or parliamentary burgh embraces a portion
of the parish of Dundonald. In this portion, are the mouth and
the harbour of the river Irvine. Before the harbour of Port-Glas-
gow was erected, Irvine was the place to which were brought the
goods imported by the merchants of Glasgow. In a work publish-
ed in 1620, and entitled "Timothy Pont's Cunningham Topogra-

<FOOTNOTE>Compiled by the incumbent, the Rev. John Wilson, from communication made
by J. W. Mackenzie, Esq; Robert Montgameris, Esq.; James Johnstone, Esq.;
J. Dobie, Esq,; and David Gray, Esq.


