
                     LISMORE AND APPIN.                    225

doubtful signification.  Some take it to be a contraction of Ap-
ennine, from the mountainous appearance of the country; but the
true signification seems to be Abbot's land, from Abba, Ab-
bot, and fonn, land, written Abb-fhon, and pronounced Abb-
onn, the fh being silent; and as the vowels o and i are, in the
Irish language, interchangeable, the word might be written Abb-
fhin, pronounced Abb-inn, and from this compound the Auglified
term Appin would be very easily obtained.
   Extent and Topographical Appearances.-The island of Lismore
is 10 miles long, and averages about 1 1/2 mile in breadth; and Kin-
gerloch, a district of the parish of Lismore, and separated from
Lismore and Appin by Linne-sheilich, is about 16 miles long and
4 miles broad.  From Shian ferry, which is the south-west point
of Appin, to the King's House at the head of Glencoe, there are
38 measured miles, and, from thence to the confines of the parish
and of the county of Argyle at Cruach or Rannoch moor, are 10
miles more, making the length of Appin, from south-west to north-
east, not less than 48 miles; and the average breadth, according
to the old Statistical Account, is 10 miles.  The upper part of
this district, however, is an uninhabited wild, consisting of hill,
and moss, and moor, serving as pasture, during the summer months,
to the cattle of the inhabitants of the lower districts.  Hence the
dimensions of the parish are as follows: Lismore, 9600 square
acres; Kingerloch, 40,960 do.; Appin, 307,200 do.; total,
357,760 square acres.
   Boundaries.-The parish is bounded on the east, by the parish
of Ardchattan, which is separated from it by Lochcreran; on the
north-east, by the parish of Fortingal in Perthshire, which it meets
at Cruach; on the north, by Lochleven, which separates it from
the parish of Kilmaly in Inverness-shire; on the west, by the pa-
rishes of Morven-and Ardnamurchan; on the south-west, by the
Sound of Mull and the Atlantic; and on the south, by the parish
of Kilmore, separated by the Lynn of Lorn, an arm of the sea
about three leagues over. Lismore lies in a south-west and north-
aest direction, nearly of an oval form, except at the north-east
end, where a small headland, jutting into the Linne-sheilich, de-
stroys the regularity of the figure.  It is exclusively agricultural,
and its soil and climate are well adapted to all the purposes of the
farmer.  Appin is of a wedge-like form, with the sharp edge thrust
in between Lochcreran and Linne-sheilich, and consists of the
districts of Airds, Strath of Appin, Duror, Glencreran, and Glen-


