
   198                         ELGINSHIRE.

      Antiquities.-A castle, of which the ruins remain, and which is
   named the Castle of Dallas, or Torcastle, was built by Sir Thomas
   Cumming of Altyre, anno 1400. It was formerly the stronghold of
   the Cummings, the ancestors of the present proprietor. It is situat-
   ed on a plain at the foot of the hill of the Wangie, on the side of
   the Dorral burn, about a mile from the church, on the north bank
   of the Lossie. The vestiges of out-works and a moat are still to
   be seen. In the centre of the churchyard, there still remains en-
   tire a cross, where the people were once accustomed to hold their,

   markets on Sunday. It is twelve feet high, consisting of one stone
   set on a stone pedestal, about three feet and a half square, and its
   capital a fleur-de-lis. The stone weather-beaten, effigy of St
   Michael, mentioned in the last Statistical Account, now lies in a
   mutilated state -at the foot of the cross. There is also a large
   oblong stone at the cast end of the parish, which stands on the
   site of an old Roinan Catholic chapel and burying-ground.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>

                          III.-POPULATION.

             In the year 1770, the population amounted to 700
                         1778,                            917
                         1788,                            888
                         1811,                            871
                         1831,                           1153
                         1841,	                         1179

      The greater part of the population are employed as farmers,
   crofters, labourers, and farm-servants. There are also masons,
   weavers, blacksmiths, carpenters, grain-millers, carding-millers,
   tailors, shoemakers, cartwrigbts, sawyers, fleshers, merchants,
   &c. Not many years ago., the Gaelic language was spoken by the
   whole people of the parish, and most of tbe ;places still retain,
   Gaelic names. There are not, however, now above twelve per.
   sons in the parirh who understand that language. A very great
   change has taken place in the dress of the common people: all
   the females with very few exceptions, wear bonnets now whereas
   twenty Years ago, only about three were to be seen in church.
   The males were accustomed to appear in church with tlothes
   made of homespun grey; but now, the most of them are provided
   with a suit of broadcloth, for kirk and markel
      The parishioners of Dallas are exceeding kind and hospita-
   ble.They are also,most industrious and persevering. The waste
   given them gratis for a limited number. of years, are in a
   short.time turned from barren moor into fertile fields.
      Smuggling, which so greatly prevailed throughout the whole


