
     Statistical Account

Govan, exclusive of the people employed from other pa-
rishes, during a great part of the season, at the print and 
bleachfields above mentioned, 2518.

<TABLE>

of these there are Males,   1266
Female,                     1252
Under 8 years of age,        532
Between 8 and 80,           1963
Between 80 and 90,            21
Between 90 and 100,            2

</TABLE>

Instead, therefore, of placing 5000 under the head of
increase from Gorbals since 1755, as in the table prefix-
ed to the 5th volume of this work, the amount from
both parishes ought not to exceed 3929 fouls*.

   Church, Manse, &c.-The + church is very commo-
dious.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Of burials, no register has been kept; nor can the register of baptisma
and marriages give a difficult idea of the number either of the one of the
either, in any given time; because the Dissenters, who reside monthly in the
villages, and of whom there are 75 families, have long been generally accus-
tomed to neglect the registration of their children names; and clandesline mar-
riages, of which there are no register, heve been, among the lower people, most
absurdly common.
+The following notes were obligily communicated bu a gentleman who
had some time ago occasion to look over, with a different view, some old pa-
pers in the prossession of the College and Town of Glasgow.  The information
they contain ,ay be relied upon, though the authorities could not, without a
good deal of trouble, be produced, as they happened not to make a part of
the notes.
"The church of Govan appear to have been originally mortified by King
"David I.  to have church of St. Mungo of Glasgow.  The deed of mortifica-
"tion is entered in the chartulary of Glasgow, the original of which is keopt in
"the Scotts College at Parish, and the only full copy in Scotland is in the li-
"brary of the university of Glasgow.  The church of Govan appears to have 
"been served, before the Reformation, by a person, who was ex office, one
   

