
488                                   DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

with; though there is no parish in the district which abounds so
much in woods. In the various plantations, oaks in particular are
of large size, and seem well adapted for the soil. Planes, beeches
elms, firs of all kinds, ash and poplars grow rapidly, being pro-
perly fenced and pruned. Around Hollows Tower, there are some
large,oaks and plane trees. A limited quantity of oak is annually
cut down, which furnishes bark to the tanner, and wood for the va-
rious'purposes of the tenant.
	 A variety of orchards were planted about forty-eight years ago,
at the expense of the Duke of Bruccleuch, upon such farms as were
thought  most favourably situated for the purpose. They have all
turned out well, yielding a fair proportion of fruit of good quality,
--particularly. those at Woodhouselees, Forge, Rowanburn, Prior-
liden, and the one at the manse.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The Duke of Buccleuch is the sole proprietor
of this parish; and its valuation in merks Scotch, with half of Mor-
ton annexed in 1703, is L. 7462, 6s. 8d.
	Eminent Men.--Among the men of former times, noted for
their border exploits, we may mention, as a native of this parish,
the celebrated Johnnie Armstrong of Gilnockie, a brother of the
laird of Mangerton, chief of the name, whose place of residence
was at the Hollows. Johnnie and all his retinue were con-
demned and hanged upon growing trees at a place called Carlen-
rig Chapel, about ten miles above Hawick, on the high road to
Langholm, by James V.; also William Armstrong, called Will of
Kinmont, a descedant of Gilnockie; and Hector Armstrong, Hare-
law,--whose exploits on the borders are well known.
	In more modern times, we cannot overlook, as natives of this pa-
rish, the sons of the Rev. Mr Petrie, who died minister of Canon-
bie,--four of whom, by their talents and industry, acquired splen-
did fortunes. The eldest, Dr Robert Petrie, was an eminent phy-
sician Lincoln and a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians
at Edinburgh; the youngest, William Petrie, Esq. died second
in Council at Madras, a man highly distinguished for his benevo-
lence, and agreeable manners in private life, and for the great abili-
ties with which he discharged the important duties of the public
station which he filled. Dr Russell, author of the History of Mo-
dern Europe, and the celebrated Benjamin Bell, Esq. surgeon, were
also natives of this parish.
	Antiquities.--In this parish, watch, from its locality, was more


