
     of Canisbay.

counties.  The better sort, and especially the fair sex, speak
as well, and with as little peculiarity of accent, as their equals
in any part of Scotland.  There is scarcely a place in the
whole parish, whose name is not of Norwegian derivation.
The Gache is totally unknown in Canisbay; nor is there a
place thronghout the parish, whose name indicates the least
affinity to that language.

   Mansion Houses.-The house of Freswick is a modern
building, sufficiently commodious and elegant.  About 15
years ago, in the month of February, the thunder broke on
one of its wings, threw down a chimney top, and rent the
wall from top to bottom, besides damaging the greatest part of the

     X 2

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

place, where wick obtains.  Perhaps it is from fresb that the English word fresh is
derived, which sometimes hears a meaning little diFFerent from green.
Dungisbay Head is called, by Ptolemy, Bepscispu, a word evidently formed from
the name it bore, in the days of this geographer The Greeks had no word, in
their own language, having m for the terminating letter; but in writing of per-
sons or places, among barbarians, they frequently end the vocable with m; per-
haps that it might appear as a barbarism, compared with the musical founds of
their own harmonious tongue.  The word Bery would seem to have been a
common appellation to such places as Dungisbay Head in those times.  At this
day, a similar promontory, in the island of Walls in Orkney, is termed the Bery.
The word is clearly of Norwegian derivation.  It signifies a place of observation;
or a principal station, for discovering the approach of an enemy by sea, when at a
great distance.  The evident remains of a watch tower, on Dangisbay Head, are
a proof of what is here asserted.  Beretter, in the Danish tongue, to this day sig-
nifies to communicate intelligence, to warn or give notice.  The name of Warth
or Varth Hill is of similar derivation.  Barter, in the above language is to attend,
to want on, or to watch for.  Hence the speculum on the Head, being the prin-
cipal station, was to discover and communicate to that on the Varth Hill; where-
as the office of the latter was, to stand in warting for such information, from the
former, to receive and transmit the discoveries communicated from the Bery.
Mey would appear to have its name, from the early and luxuriant verdure on
what is called the Bank Head, in the spring mouths.  Brasley is the estate
or possession of Biab.

</UNREADABLE>


