
                     KIRKWALL AND ST OLA.                             3

gradations of size, here distinguished by the names of silloch, cuith,
cuthine, and saithe, is by far the most useful., constituting a prin-
cipal part of the food of the poorer classes.
  Sea trout are taken in considerable numbers in the, bays and
small brooks or burns, which they ascend in October and Novem-
ber for the purpose of spawning, returning in the spring months.
Salmon are very rarely met with, though now and then a stray fish
is caught.
                 I.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Kirkwall was erected.into a royal burgh by a charter from Ja mies
III. of Scotland, dated 31st March A. D. 1486, and is governed by
a provost, four bailies, dean of guild, treasurer, and council-
lors.  It is also the seat of the Sheriff-Court, Justice of Peace
Court, presbytery, and synod.
  Eminent Men.-Of eminent characters connected withthe pa-
risli, those most worthy of notice are, Sir Robert Strange, the exai-
nent engraver; Malcolm,Laino, Esq. the well-known historian of
Scotland, over whose remains, in the Cathedral, is erected a hand-
some marble tablet, bearing a very elegant inscription in Latin;
and Dr Traill, the present accomplished Professor of Medical Ju-
risprudence in the University of Edinburgh; all of whom were
born in Kirkwall.
  Land-owners.-The principal land-owners are the Earl of Zet of Zet-
land; Mr Baikie of Tankerness; Mr Balfour of Trenaby ; Mr
Pollexfen of Cairston ; Mr Laing Of Papdale  and Mr Graeme of
Groeme's Hall.
Public Buildings.-The chief public buildings are, the Cathe.
dral of St Magnus, the Earl's and Bishop's palaces, and King's
castle, the town house, and grammar school.
Of these edifices, the most deserving of notice is the  Cathedral,
founded A. M. 11389 by Rogrivald or Ronald, Count of Ork
and dedicated to the memory of his uncle Magnus, also Earl of
Orkney' and canonized for his piety real or reputed. This state-
lY building, still remains in a condition of wonderful entireness and
preservation, considering its great antiquity.  Its choir'ba"
been immemorially used in lieu of a- arish:chureb, the cathedral
was, for a long period, upheld aW repaired      solely by- it 'small fund
Arising from seat-rents which, towever, being' very;Anadequate for
thO purpose, the building would speedily have fallen into decay
had not a weahby native of the county, Mr Meason of Moredum
about thirty years ago, mortified a sum, amounting, after deduction


