
              MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.           1173

   Third Year.-Second Mathematics, 6 meetings a-week; Na-
tural Philosophy, 12 do.
   Fourth Year.-Moral Philosophy and Logic, twelve meetings a-
week.  Evidences of Christianity, one meeting a week.
   The meetings are of one hour each.  The above numbers are
exclusive of extra meetings, which occur occasionally.
A third and a fourth Greek class, and a third Latin class, are
attended voluntarily by several students of the third and fourth
years; the chemical class is also attended by many during these
years; and a third Mathematical class, which meets daily, is at-
tended by the mathematical bursars, and by some students of the
fourth year.
   The students of all these years also attend a weekly lecture on
Practical Religion, given on Fridays by the Professor of Divinity,
who receives a salary for it under the will of the late John Gordon,
Esq. of Murtle.  The morning meetings of the classes are open-
ed with a prayer; and on the Lord's day a part of the students
attend divine worship in a gallery in the College church; but the
greater number have long been in the habit of accompanying their
relations or friends to other churches in the city, and students of
other religious denominations have never been required tn `ttend
in the Established Church.
   The session extends from the last Monday of October to the
first, Friday of April.  There are no vacations, Christmas and
new-year's days excepted; and regular meetings are held on Sa-
turdays.
   Premiums, generally of books, are awarded in the classes by
comparative trial among those students who come voluntarily for.
ward ; and there have also been instituted a biennial prize of
L.20 for an English essay on a subject prescribed by the Principal
and certain of the Professors, who are trustees of Mrs Blackwell's
foundation; and a gold medal of two ounces in weight, which has
been occasionally awarded, under the deed of John Gray, Esq. to
such of his bursars as are certified by the professor of Mathema-
-tics, to "possess an uncommon genius in that science, and to have
made discoveries and improvements therein."
   During the last fortnight of the session, a public examination of
each class of the curriculum of Arts is held in presence of the
Principal and Professors, and of all the students and public who
choose to attend.  These have always existed; and since 1826,
entrance examinations during the first week of the session have
been, carried on.  In the latter, all under graduate students wearing


