
                     AUCHINDOIR AND KEARN.              407

on the east.  Auchindoir is the much larger parish in point of
superficial extent.  Their general aspect is varied and uneven.
This characteristic is particularly applicable to the eastern por-
tion, comprehending the whole of the parish of Kearn, and the
northern extremity of Auchindoir.  The surface here is either rais-
ed into long undulating ridges of extremely dissimilar elevation,
or depressed into deep valleys of every variety of breadth; seve-
ral of which are marked with features of a very striking and pic-
turesque appearance.  Towards the southern extremity, the parish
is of a more level description, with a gradual ascent to the sur-
rounding mountains, particularly Correen, round whose base it
sweeps for a distance of five miles.  The altitude of Correen is about
1350 feet.  On the west of the parish stands the Buck, or "Buck of
the Cabrach," as it is usually termed, the elevation of which, ac-
cording to Ainslie, is 2377 feet.  It lies partly in Auchindoir and
partly in Cabrach parish.  It is of a very elegant form when view-
ed from the north and east, presenting a pyramidical shape, taper-
ing beautifully towards the top, and crowned with a cluster of
rocks placed as if in studied artificial regularity, by the gigantic
efforts of man.
   Climate.-The climate of Auclhindoir and Kearn is, on the
whole, salubrious.  The heights, indeed, are cold and exposed;
but the lower grounds in both parishes are mild, sheltered, and
dry.  The distance from the sea, (not less in any part than thirty
miles), and the interception of the easterly winds, by fre-
quent ranges of hills, exclude those vapours, which bestow, too
truly, the character of dampness, on the climate of the west
coast of Scotland.  On the other hand, the westerly winds are
often boisterous and stormy, and the frosts somewhat early, and
frequently severe.  Snow falls in, abundance, and sometimes lies
long; still the climate of these parishes may be denominated heal-
thy, at least if longevity be the best criterion,-of which there are
many unquestionable instances.
   Hygrography.-The quality of the water in this district is ex-
cellent, and its quantity sufficient for all the necessary purposes of
human life and industry.  There are no medicinal springs, properly
so termed, although there are various rills tainted with iron; but nei-
ther their strength nor virtues are such as to merit particular notice.
The burns of Craig and Corchinan, which unite and form the
Bogie near, to the Manse, take their rise in, and for a considerable
space run through, moss ground, from which they derive a strong


