
     Statistical Account

them, purchase annually a considerable quantity from the
neighbouring district.  The value of the cloth purchased by
manufacturers or merchants in the course of last year, ex-
ceeded L. 30,000.  Of the whole cloth, made or purchased,
about three fourths are sold in England; from which a
small proportion is exported to the West Indies and Ameri-
ca.  Of the remaining fourth, about one half of it is sold in
Glasgow for exportation; the other half is consumed in the
country*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The above was the state of the manufactures of Kirkaldy, before the dis-
tresses which commerce and manufactures in general have suffered of late be-
gan to extend to them.  Through the operation of particular circumstances,
those distresses were prevented for a while from having any considerable ef-
fect on this difstrict.-An engagement with a navy contractor, which ena-
bled one of the principal manufacturers of the place, to purchase considerable
more than the usual quantity of checks, contributed to keep the trade alive
there for some months, after it had suffered in other places.  The manufac-
turers too, calculating on the prosperity of the former year, had prepared a
large stock of materials for the probable consumption of the succeeding year:
And these materials, many of them were under the necessity of working up
and selling, although with 1oss, to retire their bills as they fell due.  This
brought the usual quantity of cloth, and perhaps a greater quantity than usu-
al to the market, during the first part of the year 1793.  But the causes
which produced this effect were temporary, and have now ceased to operate.
The engagement with the contractor has been for some months at an end.  The
materials provided in the former year have been generally wrought up.  And
while the profits on the sale of the manufacture have not been sufficient to re-
place them, the want of ready money cannot now be supplied, at least with
the same facility as formerly, by negotiating bills.  Hence there is already an
increasing stagnation.  The number of looms employed without the place is
fast diminishing.  The prices of spinning and weaving have been twice redu-
ced within the compals of a few months.  On some fabrics, the price of
weaving has fallen 1/11, on others 1/6 and 1/4, and on a great proportion of the
coarser goods, 3/7 of the former prices.  An industrious weaver can still earn
from 8 s. to 12 s. in the week.  But the actual earning of all the weavers em-


