
     of Salton.

tempt at a re-establishment is now thought of, and the houses,
which were extremely commodious, and built at a consider-
able expence, are now made use of for a very different pur-
pose.  The children of this place, however, are still well sup-
plied with the means of education.  There are two schools for
their accommodation, with well qualified teachers, whose re-
spective salaries, including every emolument, may amount to
25 L. per annum.  There is also a school mistress, with a salary
of 10 L. per annum, who teaches sewing, &c.  Each of these
teachers is furnished with a house, school-houses, and garden,
and the number of scholars, at the three schools, may be about
100.  The parish has been enabled to make this very liberal
provision, for the education of its youth, by means of the
munificent donation of Bishop Burnet.  In the year 1711, he
bequeathed 20,000 merks Scotch, to the parish of Salton; the
annual rents to be applied to the following purposes, viz. the
education and cloathing of 30 children; the payment of their
apprentice fees; the relief of the indigent; and the annual in-
crease of a library in the manse, intended for the sole use of
the minister of the parish.  Of this fund, the Lords of Coun-
cil and Session were nominated inspectors, and, by their ap-
pointment, the proprietors of the estates of Salton and Her-
miston, together with the minister of the parish, act as trus-
tees.  Under the judicious management of these trustees, the
funds have increased to a capital of upwards of 2000 L. Ster-
ling, by which means, the various purposes of the donor's will
are completely complied with.  The children are well cloth-
ed, properly educated, and instructed in some respectable trade.
The poor are comfortably provided; and the minister's library
is supplied with most of the ancient and modern classics.

   Manufacturers.-The only manufacturers of any consequence
in the parish, are a starch-work which employs 8 persons, a

     VOL. X K k


