 
                     DUNFERMLINE.                      829

part of the parish;-the Town Loch, Lochend, Lochfitty, Loch
Gloe, and Black Loch.
   Rivulets.-The chief brook deserving notice is the Lyne, or as
it is often called the Spital (Hospital) burn, from passing in its
course near the site of the ancient hospital of St Leonards, at the
lower end of the town.  There are also the Tower or Tour-burn,
which winds round the Tower-hill in Pittencrieff Glen, whence it
derives its name, and the Baldridge burn.
   Mineralogy, Geology, Soil.*-The fields of coal in this district
are very extensive, and appear to have been among the most an-
cient in Scotland.  I am aware of only two notices of coal, one
in England, the other in Scotland, prior to that in Dunfermline,
the former being variously dated, 1234, 1239, and 1245; the lat-
ter 1284-5. +
   In 1291, William de Oberwill, proprietor of Pittencrieff estate,
adjoining to the town, granted a charter to the abbot and convent
of Dunfermline, bestowing on them the privilege of working one
coal-pit, wherever they chose, on any part of his property, except
the land which was arable; and when one was exhausted, of open-
ing another at their pleasure, as often as they considered it expe-
dient, but for their own exclusive use, and with an express probi-
bition to sell coals to others.  He also, in the same charter, gave
them a right to quarry and hew as many stones as they pleased,
on the Same conditions, with the liberty of making "free use of
all the roads and footpaths through his lands of Petyncreff and of
Galurigs, which they at any time had employed, or been in the
practice of employing."  To this charter were affixed not only
his own seal, but, at his instance, those of the Lord Bishop of St
Andrews, and of Robert de Malevilla (Melville), and it is dated
at Dunfermline on the Tuesday immediately before the feast of
St Ambrose, bishop and confessor, 1291. +
   But at the early period of 1291, there was little coal wrought
in the parish.  It was then a luxury enjoyed chiefly by the inmates
of the Abbey, and persons of distinction in the country.
   In progress of time coal came to be generally used as fuel in

<FOOTNOTE> Vide the author's Prize Essay on the Dunfermline coal field, which appeared first
in the Quarterly Journal of the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland, for June
1840, and with the necessary alterations brought down to October 1842, and some ad-
ditions, in his Historical and Statistical Account of Dunfermline, pp. 600, illustrated
with 17 engravings, published by Blackwood and Sons, May 1844.
   + Arnot's Hist. of Edinburgh, 4to, Book i. ch. 2, p. 84.  History of Fossil Fuel,
&c. 8vo, (l835), p.310-3ll.  Chalmera's Caledonis, Vol. i. p. 793, note.
   + Carta de Pethyncreff de dono Willielmi de Oberwill, 1291. - chartulary of the
Abbey, Advocates' Lib.  Printed Chart, p. 218.

