
398                       LANARKSHIRE.

	14th April 1697. On the death of his brother Charles Earl of
Selkirk in 1739, that title and the barony of Crawfordjohn in La-
narkshire devolved on him. The Earl of Ruglen was thenceforth
styled Earl of Selkirk and Ruglen, and dying at Edinburgh, on 3d
December 1744, in the eightieth year of his age, was buried at Cra-
mond.--Douglas's Peerage of Scotland, Vol. ii. p. 457.
	Rutherglen Bridge.--A stone bridge of five arches was thrown
over the Clyde between the lands of Shawfield and Barrowfield in
1775. It was built by subscription, and the burgh and inhabi-
tants of Rutherglen contributed about L. l000 that it might be
free of pontage.
	Timber Bridge.--A timber bridge was erected a few years ago
a little farther up the river, and a new line of road opened from the
collieries in Rutherglen to Glasgow, which considerably shortens
the distance. There is a pontage on this bridge for carts, carri-
ages, and foot-passengers.
	Mason's Lodges.--There were formerly two mason lodges in the
parish, but now there is only the Rutherglen Royal Arch.

	June 1386.

			PARISH OF CADDER.

         PRESBYTERY OF GLASGOW, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

              I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--VARIOUS derivations have been assigned to the name
of this parish; but the most probable is that which traces it to the
ancient British word Calder, signifying "a place beautifully em-
bellished with wood, and copiously supplied with water."
	Cadder was probably one of the 365 parishes which St Patrick,
(who was born in the adjoining parish,) erected about 490, and
which Convallus II. (who was born about 558) endowed. The
latter (says Archbishop Spotswood) appointed mansion places to
the clergy, at the churches where they served, with a competent
portion of land there adjoining, and declared the tenth of all corns,
fruits, herbs, and flocks, &c. to belong properly to the church.
Kentigern, called St Mungo, founded a bishoprick at Glasgow
about 560, and the parson of Cadder, from his contiguity, was


