
                     WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.               819

little demesne is truly a lovely spot even in its present naked and
neglected state.  Were it crowned with a tasteful cottage, its knolls
clothed with the fragrant birch, the flowering hawthorn, and the
clustering rowan, with a due proportion of more lasting trees,-were
its watered borders fringed with the alder, the willow, and the po-
plar,-and its remaining low and fertile spots laid out in well dispos-
ed gardens and shrubberies, with here and there a grassy enclosures,
-it might soon be said of Wandell Bower, as was once said of Fas-
cally by the distinguished tourist Pennant,-" this place is more
like the favourite haunt of faeries than the abode of mortals !"
   In Lammingtoune, there are at Whitehill the remains of some
place of strength and consequence; and in the wild but beauti-
fully romantic glen of Keygill, near the head of that stream, and
at the very base of a steep and lofty hill named Windgill bank,
stand the ruins of Windgate house.  This house was built at a
remote period by the laird of Lammingtoune, at a time when a
feud subsisted between him and the laird of Symington. The lat-
ter bad erected a building on the side of Tinto, called Fatlips
Castle, which, being directly opposite, completely overlooked, by
its elevated situation, the castle of Lammingtoune, the residence
of his rival laird.  It is recorded that he sent a taunting mes-
sage to Lammingtoune, in no very delicate terms, to the effect
that his wife could not go out of doors but her motions might be
observed from Fatlips; which so incensed the chief of the Bail-
lies that " he vowed that ere that day twelvemonth-, he would
have a house for himself and his family, where his wife's motions
could neither be watched by Symington nor any one else, and
where, on looking out, he should be able to call everything that he
saw his own !" The result was, the building of a residence in
Keygill glen, about four miles from the village, and in the very
wildest and most remote outskirts of the estate of Lammingtoune.
   The chief residence of the laird, however, as, notwithstanding,
still at the castle or tower of Lammitigtoune.  It is somewhere
about a hundred years since it was regularly occupied by the fa-
mily.  I have been told by some old persons in the parish. about
the time when I came here, that they recollected having seen a
roasting-jack and some other piece of furniture,-I think a large
spinning wheel, in the kitchen of the old castle, and that a woman
was employed to keep fires in it during winter, long afer it had
ceased to be the family residence.  It is of unknown antiquity,
though generally supposed to have been erected before the time of


