
114                     ARGYLESHIRE.

pally of the Argyleshire breed.  There are about 40 of the Ayr-
shire short-horned breed kept for their milk.  There are 71
horses in the parish, principally a cross between the Highland and
Clydesdale.  The sheep are readily sold to the Greenock, Glas-
gow, Rothesay, or Dunoon fleshers at fair prices.  Young cattle
are purchased by drovers for the different low country markets.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no village in the parish.
   Means of Communication.-There are about thirty miles of made
road.  The scenery is bold and romantic: from the mansion-
house of Southhall to the head of Loch Riddan it is truly beauti-
ful.  It is considered to surpass the celebrated entrance to the
Trossachs at the foot of Loch Caterine.  The road from South
Hall to Glendaruel is kept in the best order.  I cannot say much
in commendation of the way in which the other roads in the pa-
rish are attended to.  They are chiefly made and repaired by
statute labour.
   Ecclesiastical State.-There are two places of worship, the pa-
rish church and a chapel built by subscription, and a contribution
from the General Assembly's Church Extension fund.  The lat-
ter was opened for public worship by the parish minister on the
23d of August 1840.  The parish church is situated on a rising
ground immediately behind the manse, surrounded by a beautiful
burying-ground.  It was built in 1812, and might be made very
comfortable if it was strapped and lathed and properly attended
to and is the third church on the same site.  The first was built
by a man who said that he dreamt that he would find a treasure
concealed in a certain spot in the parish, (which is still pointed
out,) and was commanded to build a church with it on "Croch-
dan in airy," but his funds became exhausted, and a part of it
remained unslated for many years.  There was another church
built close to this old one in 1745, which was pulled down when
the late Mr Campbell of Southhall, the principal heritor, insist-
ed on building the present church, to the great annoyance of some
of the other heritors.  The old Roman Catholic place of worsbip
and burying-ground were situated on an eminence about 200 yards
above the present one, on the side of the hill.  The chapel is
most comfortable in every way, and situated on the east Kyles
of Bute.  The manse was built in 1807 by order of the Court
of Session; but the then incumbent accepted of one inferior to


