
294			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

and polecats. Pheasants have been introduced at Cally, the seat
of Mr Murray of Broughton, and seem to thrive well. There is
a deer park, extending to nearly 500 acres. The water eagle, or
osprey, or bald buzzard (the Falco Haliaetus of Linnaeus), fre-
quents Lochs Skero and Greanoch, and builds on the islets which
these lochs contain. The crested heron, a species of piscivo-
rous water-fowl haunts the different lochs in the northern dis-
trict of the parish.
	Botany.--Under this head, there is nothing peculiar to Girthon,
the botany of the hilly district to which this parish belongs being
similar throughout. The quantity of wood in the parish extends
to ne`rly 1000 acres; and of this, about a third (namely, that on
the south side of Barhill, on Disdow hill, and at Kindown,) has
been planted since the beginning of the present century. There
is also a considerable quantity of natural wood in Boreland, Syl-
lodoch, Carstammon, and a few other places.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Notices.--In 1300, Edward I. resided for several days
at the town of Fleet, probably on or near the site of the present
Gatehouse. At this place the inhabitants endeavoured to stop
his progress; but, being repulsed by a superior force, and by
greater military skill, they fled to the woods and mountains. (Wal-
singham, Hist. Reg. Angliae, p. 78) From Henry, the miller,
who rented the mill of Gerthon (Girthon), the king exacted
13s. 4d. for some "malversations" that had been detected in his
mill. He exacted also, from the town of Flete (Fleet), 40s. for
their bad measures and other transgressions. This mill of Gir-
thon is thought to be the same with the ancient "mill of the lake,"
within the farm of Rainton, about three miles south of Gatehouse.
But, as if in compensation for these severities, Edward offered, on
the 9th August, an oblation of 7s. at the altar of Girthon, and
repeated the offering next day. (Murray's Literary History of
Galloway, 1st ed. 1822, p. 348.)
	The inhabitants of Girthon seemed to have been exposed to
severe dxactions and persecution during the reigns of Charles II.
and his successor, James VII. On the Restoration, not only were
the people deprived by the Government of their minister, Mr
William Erskine, (of whom we shall soon speak more at length);
but they were exposed to severe pecuniary exactions and other
sufferings on account of their attachment to Presbytery. In 1666,
for example) "nine poor families" were fined in L. 525, 10s. 4d.


