
     Of Saddel and Skipness.

gretted, that no mention is made in the histories of the times
of such a magnificent building*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is built with a cement, apparently made up of a composition of lime
sea-shell, and earth of a dunnuth colour, for exceedingly firm, that it were easier
to quarry a whin-rock.  Some parts of the walls seem to be of later date than
others, being thinner and in a different style of architecture.  The outer wall is
7 feet thick, 33 feet in height, and 450 feet in length, in all, but non of the 
sides are exactly of the same length.  It has two projections of 13 feet square
over walls, one at the S. E. corner, and the other at the N. W. corner, still
called Tur-an-t'gairt, or the Priest's Tower, close by which, there was a small
chapel or oratory.  At the N. E. corner, and within the outer wall, there is a
large tower or citadel, considerably higher than the outer wall, which is kept
in good repair by the present proprietor, who roofed and floored it, so as to make
exceeding good lodgings.  Below, there are excellent vaulted cellars;  the stairs
to the several apartments above, run through the wall, and are far from being
bad, though rather narrow, according to the taste of the times.  The entry to
it was secured by a wall stretching across the area to the N. W. side of the outer
wall, with a large gate in the middle:  This gate, now partly taken down, as
well as the two outer of principal gates, were in the Gothic style.  The area
within this cross wall, was probably used as barracks, now converted into a
handsome court of offices with great propriety.  These, with other improve-
ments, both within and without the castle, have a very pleasing effect, exhibit-
ing to the eye at one view, modern elegance and ancient grandeur happily com-
bined together.
   Upon almost every point of projection along the coast, there are to be seen
small Danish forts; the most considerable is, the castle of Aird at Carradell, it
is situated on a high rock close by the sea, on which side it is inaccessible, and se-
cured on the land side by a deep broad ditch.  Nothing remains but a part of
the outer wall, built with mud, and above 6 feet thick, and 12 feet high, where
entire.  It is 240 feet long, and 72 broad.  Near this, at the extremity of the
point of land, which forms the fine bay of Carradell, there is a small island, in
the centre of which is to be seen, the foundations of a vitrified wall of an ellip-
tical form, surrounding about a rood of ground.  The lava or cement is of a
dark gray colour; but of what materials, and by what process it was made, is
not easily determined.  There is no tradition to throw any light on this puz-
zling monument of antiquity.  Its insular sequestered situation, and particularly
its form, which was peculiar to the ancient Druids, and a large opening on the
E. toward the rising sun, would tempt one to conjecture that it was built by
that venerable order, as a place of retreat and security, when the fell into
 

