
                       ELLON.                            941

the winter season, a considerable number of occasional paupers
who require temporary supplies from the kirk-session.  In the se-
vere winters of 1838 and 1839, when day-labourers were thrown
out of work for many weeks, a serious inroad was made on the per-
manent funds of the session, the expenditure having for each of
these years exceeded the income by about L.50.
   The ordinary collections made in the church throughout the
year average nearly L.90, which, with an extraordinary collection
made annually for the pauper lunatic fund, will make the whole
sum collected for the poor, in the course of twelvemonths, amount
to about L.95.  The permanent funds belonging to the kirk-ses-
sion are upwards of L.300; but the amount cannot be stated with
perfect accuracy, from the circumstance that part of them was long
ago vested in house property in Aberdeen, which is of uncertain
value.  The annual return from the permanent funds, inclusive of
a mortgage of L.20 Scots on a small field adjoining the village,
may be stated at from L.14 to L.15; thus making the amount of
the whole sum annually available for the relief of the poor, and
for the payment of the session clerk's and kirk officer's fees, about
L.110.
   In 1838, on account of the peculiar severity of the season, small
donations were received from most of the heritors in aid of the
funds of the kirk-session, amounting in all to L.25; but in this
part of the country such contributions have seldom been bad re-
course to, except at periods of more than ordinary difficulty.
There can be no question, however, that, even in country parishes,
the difficulty of making a suitable provision for the wants of the poor,
by the ordinary methods of collection, &c. is rapidly increasing;
and that the period is not far distant when the subject of pauperism
must force itself more prominently on public attention.  Indeed, in
the case of large towns, this period appears to have already arrived.
A hope, however, may be entertained, that, with the fatal example
of the large manufacturing towns before them, the heritors of
country parishes will be roused to provide effectual means for
the moral and religious education of every child that may be
trained up upon their estates, and to see also that the means so
provided be diligently and faithfully applied to the object in view.
The writer has no wish that heritors should assess themselves in
large sums for the actual maintenance of the poor, as be conceives
that this maintenance should always be partly dependent on the
voluntary charity of a Christian neighbourhood; but he has long


