
            760                         PERTHSHIRE.

            muse, and characterized by Pennant as an "epitome of every thing
            that can be admired in waterfalls."  The ascent is from the vil-
            lage, where a guide may be obtained, and romantic walks have
            been formed and spats erected, at every little interval, for the use
            and convenience of travellers.  That the prospect may increase
            in interest and leave ` deeper impression, the tourist should ascend
            by the west side, and return by the east side of the falls.  On as-
            cending half-way up the dell, he comes to a scene of a very im-
            posing and picturesque character.  A rugged precipice discovering
            here and there a naked crag, but mostly covered with coppice,
            weeping birches, and mountain ash, rears itself on his left; and
            there is rising majestically towards his right hand a lofty, perpen-
            dicular, and larch-crowned rock, threatening destruction to those
            who approach its summit, having its bold front covered over with
            hoary lichens, and its crevices nestled with daws, wood-pigeons,
            and numerous flocks of other smaller birds ; while directly in the
            foreground, and over the thicket, there is an enchanting peep of
            the principal fall, fearlessly shooting forth from its dark lowering
            chasm in one impetuous torrent of foam, and immediately losing
            itself in the wood-covered abyss below.  While advancing thence
            along the sylvan but giddy precipice, through which he hears the
            water rolling and tumbling far beneath, the rustic bridge thrown
            across the upper fall bursts all at once upon his view, whence the
            fall is seen to great advantage.  If he would escape, however, be-
            ing drenched with showers of the dishing waters, let him hasten
            thence to a seat on the opposite bank, from which it appears to still
            greater advantage, and in a character of beauty and grandeur
            which it is unnecessary here to describe.  Leaving this lovely
            spot, the traveller now wends his way downwards, and descends,
            not without difficulty, by a zig-zag path, railed at its farthest ex-
            tremity for the security and protection of the lover of the wild and
            romantic, into the bottom of the dell below, which he no sooner
            enters, tinder an overhanging cliff, than the principal fall bewilders
            and astonishes him with all its loveliness and grandeur.  Far up
            the rocky den the water gushes out furiously from its gloomy con-
            tracted channel, and reels, and foams, and roars from precipice to
            precipice, now concealed by a projecting rock, and now flashing
            upon the sight, until at last its strength is quite exhausted, when,
            after enjoying a moment's breathing and again recruiting its fury,
            on a sudden it bolts with the thunder's distant roar into a black,
            narrow, and rock-bound chasm where it swiftly glides out of sight.
					3


