
     Statistical account
bird; and dear bird, or my bird, is still used familiarly
to a young friend or youth, which Kentigern was when he
received that epithet from St. Servanus the Pictish Abbot
of Culross.  In cap. xi. we learn that Glasgow, formerly
Cuthures, was in the Saint's time, from the monastery
therein situated, called "Deschu, quod interpretatur
"cara familia."  Neither is this Welsh:-But the Gae-
lic words Paisde caomb, i.e. dear children or family, have
nearly in that language the sound of, and may have been
spelt Deschu, in that early age, in the same way that Des-
chu is now pronounced and spelt Glasgow.  And in cap.
xxii. we learn that the Burn, a Gaelic word used in this
county for rivulet, and at present called Molendinar,
that runs by the High Church of Glasgow and behind
the College garden, was called Mollendonor in the Saint's
time.  Now muilean is a mill in Gaelic, and dombar
signifies water; from which it is evident, that the lan-
guage of Glasgow in Kentigern's time, was not Welsh,
but pure Gaelic; and that at this early period the Mo-
lendinor burn, as it now does, drove a mill.*

<FOOTNOTE>

*We shall, in farther proof, and to illustrate the language of this parish
and county, adduce some words, among many hundreds, that at might be
mentioned, which are pure Gaelic.  Thus Bink, a stone or green sod or
seat before a door, is pure Gaelic.  Cromie a cow with crooked horns, also
a crooked stick, from Cromadh bended.  Body, a clowsn or silly person, Bo-
dach.  Pluck, a carbuncle on the face, Plucain.  Eirack, a chicken, Eira
Stock-in-horn, a pipe with a horn used by the shepherds, from Stoc a pipe.
Kinning, a Rabbit, Coinain.  Brock, a Badger, Broc.  Brat, a cover or scurs
also a piece of cloth, Brat.  To toom, empty, Taomam.  To ding, overcome,
Dingam.  Glar, puddle or filth, Gaor.  Ingle, the fire, Aingeal.  Gairtain,
garter, Gairtain.  Groset, gooseberry, Grosaid.  Guitar, a gullyhole, Guitar.
Haggis, a dish, Taiggis.  Inch, invariably used for an island, Innse or Innis.
Clachan, a village, Clachan.  Loch, a Lake, Loch.  Carameile or Caparcile,
the orobus tuberosus, being the root so much used in diet by the ancient


