
	               RATHVEN.                           249

forms a very productive soil. The nodules of lime produce the
same effect.
  Zoology.-The ordinary indigenous wild animals found in this
parish are, the fox, the polecat, the weasel, the ermine or stoat,
the black-rat, now nearly extirpated in many parts of Scotland by
the brown or Norway rat, common; the water-rat, the short-tailed
field-mouse, the common shrew, and the mole. The roe-deer is
found wild in Lord Seafield's woods, near the manse; and the fallow-
deer, the hare, the rabbit. The hedgehog, though rare in this
county, was found last summer both on the farm of Rannes and
in the woods at Letterfourie. The otter breeds every season
among the rocks at Findochtie, and in the bogs of Rannes. Along
the shore, the porpoise, the grampus, the spermaceti whale, and
the seal, are frequently seen. The latter is very destructive to the
stake-nets during the salmon-fishing season.
  Birds.-The osprey, or sea-eagle, is occasionally seen. The
kite, commonly called the glead, is known to build on the lefty
trees at Rannes and Cullen Honse. The kestrel, the, goshawk,
the inerlin, and the sparrow-hawk, with the hen-harrier, not com-
mon. The long-eared owl, the barn-owl, and the screech-owl
are common. The great ash-coloured butcher-bird, though rare,
has been seen in the woods of Letterfourie. The raven, the booded-
crow is very abundant, and destructive to the eggs of the partridge
and pheasant; common crow, jack-daw, and carrion-crow.
  The starling, the thrush or mavis, the blackbird, the missel-
thrush, and the fieldfare, with its companion, the red-wing, oc-
cur here in large flocks on the approach of winter.  Among the
strong-billed smaller birds, we have the yellow bunting, the snow
bunting, the common bunting, and the black-headed bunting. The
bullfinch, greenfinch, chaffinch, goldfinch, brown-linnet, mountain-
linnet or twite, and house sparrow are common. 
  Among the soft, or subulated billed birds, we may enumerate
the red breast, red-start, sedge-sparrow, white-throat, pied-wag-
tail, yellow-wagtail, seen on the banks of small burns; whin-chat,
stone-chat, and sky-lark, the common wren, golden crested-wren,
willow-wren, common creeper, and the hedge-sparrow. The
great titmouse, blue titmouse, cola-titmouse, and long-tailed tit-
mouse, though rare, have been seen in the manse garden.
  The summer birds of passage are, the house-swallow, martin,
swift, generally visible from the 1st to the 12th of May; stene-
curlew, landrail, cuckoo, and-goat-sucker or night-jar, occasionally


