

200                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

the roll is 37. In 1838, there were 39 regular pensioners. The
whole sum divided among them was L.84, 14s. None of them
receive above 5s. per month, nor less than 3s. per month. In ad-
dition to this sum, there were expended in occasional allowances,
L.26, 4s. 5d. The funds are made up of collections at the church
door, proclamation dues, &c. The average amount of collections
yearly is L. 78; exclusive of sums gathered for special charities
or missionary objects. For the last two years, they have exceed-
ed the usual average ; amounting in 1837 to L. 80, 3s. 7 1/2d.; and
in 1838, to L. 84, 13s. 7 1/2d.* The income arising from other sour-
ces is very fluctuating. In 1837, it amounted to L. 31, 6s. 8d.;
and in 1838, to L. 42, 8s. 5 1/2d. Hitherto the poor have been sup-
ported witbout an assessment,-at least for many years ; and I trust
the day is yet distant, when such a mode of providing for their
wants must be resorted to, because of the manifold evils which it
brings in its train. But much depends on the conduct of the heri-
tors, whether so untoward an event is hastened or retarded, if not
altogether averted. Here, as elsewhere, there is a growing dispo-
sition to claim parochial aid ; and, in consequence of the collieries
being wrought so extensively for the last fifteen years, it is not un-
likely that the number needing aid will be ere long increased.
Then.the chief resources at present to supply the necessities of
the poor arise from the collections at the church door. But if
the church accommodation remains stationary, while the popula-
tion is augmented, if the means are not afforded for their atten-
dance on public worship, for their being trained up in moral and
religious habits, it is more than probable, that, among the baneful
effects thereby occasioned, will be an increase of pauperism so
great as to render necessary a compulsory mode of relief.
  Inns- Of these, there are three in Bennetstown, and one at Pol-
mont kirk. The number of taverns or public-houses in the parish
is large, and some of them might be spared, without injury to the
comfort, and with advantage to the morals of the people.
  Fuel.-It consists almost entirely of coal. Recently the ton
cost from 6s. to 7s. 6d. at the hill. At present the price per ton
is 5s. 10d. But even this sum is considerably larger than the
price for the same quantity a few years back.

<FOOTNOTE>It ought to be stated, that, at present, there are two pauper lunatics for whose
maintenance provision is made by an assessment on the heritors, and the amount of
which is kept entirely distinct from the administration of the funds appropriated to
the support of the ordinary poor.

  March 1839. Revised April 1841.


