
                           PARISH OF TRAQUAIR.

         PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                    THE REV. JAMES CAMPBELL, MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-This parish lies on the souht bank of
the river Tweed, and on the eastern border of the county of Peebles,
where it unites with the county of Selkirk. The ancient name of
the parish, or rather perhaps of the church, was St. Bryde's: hence
it is supposed to have been erected by the Douglases of Black-
house, in the neighbouring parish of Yarrow, and dedicated by them
to their family saint. In 1674, the church and parish of Kailzie,
(Anglice, the wood,) formerly spelled and still vulgary pronounced
Keila, was, through the instrumentality of the noble family of Tra-
quair, who were the patrons of that parish, and of the Archbishnp of
Glasgow, in whose diocese Traquair lay, in spite of the strong op-
position of the presbytery, and to the manifest disadvantage of the
parish, suppressed; and about two-thirds of it, namely, all that lay
south of the Tweed, were annexed to the church of St. Bryde's-
thus forming the present parish of Traquair. From two charters
granted to the monks of Melrose, one by David I. and the other
by Malcolm, both kings of Scotland, it would appear, that "all the
fruits, and pasture, and timber of the forest of Traquair" were as-
signed, among many others, for the support of that splendid and
princely establishment. The word is variously spelled, Traquair
and Trackwhare, and is considered to be a contraction for Strath
or Track Quair; meaning, according to one, Sheep Strath; to
others, the Strath of the Herons: and to a third, the Strath of the
Winding Burn. It must bd allowed, however, that the strath, if
it deserves the name, is very narrow; although, when viewed from

<FOOTNOTE>In a charter by Robert Duke of Albany, in favour of William Watson, son
to William Watson of Cranston, containing a grant of the lands of Traquair, &c. dat-
ed at Edinburgh anno 1409, it is spelt Traquair."-Old Statistical Account.
          In the records of the Court of Justiciary, of date 25th June 1557, as quoted by
Sir Walter Scott in his notes to the Lay of the Last Minstrel, we find "Alexander
Stuart, uncle to the Laird of Trakwhare."
          Winding Burn.-See Chalmers' Caledonin, article Traquair.



