
			   BLANTYRE.                        325

the same punishment. The general character of the population
is moral, and in many instances strictly religious. Fighting or
brawls in the village are unknown. It cannot be said they are
much given to the discussion of politics,--though several newspa-
pers come to the village. Living in one of the "fairy neuks" of
creation, religious and moral, well fed and clothed, and not over-
wrought, they seem peculiarly happy, as they ought to be.

			   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The village of Blantyre, where the church and manse stand, is
beautifully situated in a rich level country overtopped with tall trees,
many of them of great age and beauty. It is 3 miles from Hamil-
ten, 4 from Kilbride, 7 from Eaglesham, and 8 miles and 2 fur-
longs from Glasgow. There are in the parish about 3 miles of
turnpike road, and 20 miles of parish roads, which are always
kept in excellent repair.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church was built in 1793, and is in
pretty good repair. It affords accommodation for 360 sitters; but
if galleries were erected it could accommodate 200 more. The
chapel at the mills affords accommodation for 400 sitters. The
manse was built in 1773, and underwent a thorough repair in 1823.
It is now one of the best manses in Scotland. The glebe consists
of about twelve acres, four at the manse, and eight acres at Blan-
tyre moor. The former is worth L. 2, 1Os., and the latter worth
L.1 per acre. The stipend is L. 116, 18s. 7 11/12d. in money, 86
bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, 1 1/10 lippie of meal, and 10 bolls, 3 firlots,
1 1/2 lippie of barley, including communion elements. The average
number of communicants is 420, of whom 144 are heads of fa-
milies. About L. 10 are usually drawn at the church door at
the time of the sacrament, which is distributed in the usual way
among the aged and infirm. There is no dissenting chapel in
the parish. Exclusive of the population at the Blantyre Works,
there are 6 families, including 30 individuals belonging to the
Relief, and 2 families, including 7 individuals, belonging to the
Roman Catholics. Divine service at the parish church is well at-
tended. Lord Blantyre is patron. The average weekly collec-
tion at the church door is 9s.
	Education.--Besides the parish school in the village, in which
all the usual branches of education are taught, there are two En-
glish schools, one at Auchinraith, and another at Hunthill, and
also a school for females. The number of scholars attending these
schools is 123, twenty-five of whom attend the female school. The

	LANARK.                        Y


