
                    DALKEITH.                             527

  Secession Church.-Tbe first seceders in or about Dalkeith be-
longed to the congregation of the Rev.  Adam Gibb, 1744, at that
time the only secession congregation in Edinburgh.  In the year
1745 or 1746, they began to receive sermon in Dalkeith, and were
making some preparations for the erection of a meeting-house.  In
1747, in consequence of the breach concerning the burgess oath
that took place in the synod, the people here also divided, when
each party proceeded to erect a separate place of worship.
  In 1749 a session was formed here in the congregation of the
Associate Antiburghers;-their first minute bears date 2d May
1749.
  The Rev.  John Robertson, the first minister, was ordained at
Dalkeith on the 2d April 1755.  He laboured faithfully and suc-
cessfully about twenty years, and died in the year 1775.
  The Rev.  George Whytock, the second minister, was ordained
at Dalkeitb on the 17th of April 1776.  He was a man of very
considerable talent, laboured diligently in the work of the ministry,
and took an active part in the business of the Church courts.  He
acted for a number of years as clerk to the Associate Presbytery
of Edinburgh, and for sometime conducted the Christian Magazine,
along with the late Dr M'Crie.  Besides contributing largely to
the Magazine, he wrote a number of small pieces, particularly an
approved treatise on the Presbyterian form of Church Govern-
ment. * He died on the 24th October 1805, after having laboured
in the ministry about thirty years.
  The Rev. Robert Buchanan, the present minister, was ordained
on the 6th of August 1806, and continues to discharge the duties
of his office with fidelity and judgment.  This congregation has
never been numerous, but the members have been generally con-
sidered select and respectable.
  First Jssociate Congregation.- The first Associate congregation
was formed in the year 1744.  The Rev.  William Hutton, the
first minister, was admitted to the pastoral charge of it in 1750,
by translation from Stow, where he had formerly been minister for
ten years.  This was the first instance of the removal of a minister
from one charge to another in the Secession Church, Mr Hut-
ton died on the 7th of February 1791, in the eightieth year of
his age, and fiftieth of his ministry.
  The Rev. John Jeffray, the second minister, was ordained as
sistant and successor to the  Rev. William Hutton on the 7th Ja-

<FOOTNOTE>These have been republished by his son, Mr Richard Whytock, in 1483.



