
                        NORTH BERWICK.                      323

for its incorporation as a royal burgh to its charter from Robert
III.; and its municipal privileges were confirmed by a charter of
James VI., dated 18th September 1568. It is governed by two
baileis, a treasurer, and nine councillors. There is no guildry,
and there are no incorporated crafts. It bas, at no time, been
a place of much commerce or consideration, as is evident from the
small amount of the sums levied from it at the successive periods
of public taxation. Of course it was represented by its commis-
sioner in the Scottish Parliament; and since the Union, it has been
associated with Haddington, Dunbar, Lauder, and Jedburgh, in
the election of a representative to the united Parliament.
   The manor and the town of North Berwick, are stated as having
been possessed by the Earls of Fife, the descendants of Macduff,
during the twelfth, thirteenth, and a part of the fourteenth centuries.
The last of this great family who enjoyed this estate was Isabel,
the last Countess of that line, who lived during the revolutionary
reign of David II. At the accession of Robert II., by an unre-
corded arrangement with Robert Duke of Albany, William Earl
of Douglas acquired the barony of North Berwick, and so laid the
foundation of the long, extensive, and powerful influence of the
Douglases in East Lothian. In 1373, by a charter of Robert 11.
to Earl William, North Berwick was made a burgh, with the
privileges of buying and selling, with a poor and custom.-house for
the entrance and clearance of ship, and a to for the weighing
of wool. This is the most ancient charter of North Berwick.
The Earl at the same time entered into an obligation to resign
this charter, "if the same should be found detrimental to the
king, to the nation, or to the burgh." It does not appear that the
Earl succeeded in his beneficent design. Even in 1692, more than
three centuries afterwards, the town is, stated to have bad 11 only
two fishing boats." It will be seen, in a future place, to what com-
parative importance it has progressively advanced.
The manor of North Berwick often changed its lords. It was
forfeited in 1455, by James Earl of Douglas; but in 1479, it was
granted by James III. with most of the forfeiture of that Earl, to his
heir-male Archibald Earl of Angus, and erected into a free barony;
-though the king was ill requited for his benefaction, for Angus
Pursued James III. to his dethronement and death; and in the pos-
session of this younger line of the family of Douglas it long remain-
ed, associated with the lands and castle' of Tantallan the renowne'd
seat of their power and defense. We find that the site of the me-


