
     of Dowally.

   Roe Deer,-(Cervus capreolus), are abundant here.  Be-
ing at one time nearly extirpated in this neighbourhood,
they obtained a jubilee for a tract of years, and now are of-
ten to be heard and seen in the woods.

   Rein Deer,-(Cervus tarandus, Linnaei), may, without
great impropriety, be mentioned here, as introduced to this
country by the Duke or Atholl.  Both Buffon and Pontop-
pidan say, that it would be a vain attempt to naturalise this
species in any country south of Lapland, or with a climate
less vigorous".  Several facts contradict this assertion.  Mr
Hyde, at Homerton near Hackney, had one rein deer which
lived with him near three years*.  Sir Matthew White
Ridley was also successful in bringing them to Britain, and
in preserving them for a considerable period +.  No sewer
than 14 were at different times brought from Lapland by
the Duke of Atholl, and though his Grace has not succeed-
ed in preserving the breed of them to Scotland, his experi-
ments afford reason to hope, that future trials may be more

<FOOTNOTE>

illustrissimae Reginae Scotiae exhibuit, cui ego tune adolescens interfui, hujus
modi venationem nostrates Regiam appellare solent.  Habebat autem Comes
ad duo millia Scotorum montanorum quos vos hic Scotos sylvestres appella
tes, quibus negotium dedit ut cervos cogerent ex sylvis et montibus Atholiae,
Bedenachae, Marnae, Moraviae, alirsque vicinis regiombus atque ad loccam
agerent ad venationem destinatum.  Ille vero, ut valde pernices sunt & ex-
pedits ita dies noctesqeu concursarunt, ut intra bimeasis tempus amplius duo
millia cervorum cum dameis et capreis unum in locum compulerunt, quos
Reginae principibosque in valle considentibus et caeteiis qui una aderant
omnibus visendos venandosque proposuerunt."  Barclay contra Monarcha-
machos, p. 81, 82.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Miscellanies by Daines Barrington, p. 152. where Buffon, t. xu
p. 9S. and Pontoppidan, t. ii. p. 216. are quoted.

+ History of Quad uped, published at Newcastle, with engravings by
Bewick.


