
               INVERARY.                               37

south-west extremity the population is numerous, and, therefore,
in 1840, the pi-esbvtery of Inverary used means for supplying that
destitute locality, along with a portion of the parisli of Kilmicha,l
Glassary, with the means of religious instruction, by endeavouringto
erectachurch at Carnlodd.en, inthe latter parish,but inasituation so
convenient to that of Inverary, that 350 of the population should be
within three miles of it, and no family of that portion of this parish
above four miles, either from the proposed or the parochial churches.
The Committee of the General Assembly on Church Extension,
along with the Duke of Argyle and Sir Archibald Campbell, Bart.,
two proprietors whose tenants were to be principally benefited, en-
tered into this plan' and contributed generously for its execution, by.
subscribing thus: the Dtike of Argyle, L. 200; Sir Archibald Camp-
bell, Birt., L. loo; the Church Extension Committee, L.225; to-
tal, L.525. The church was erected, accordingly, in 1841, for above
.300 sitters, at an expense of L. 548, and the presbytery engaged
MrJae.kson, a probationer, to preach in it, and to visit the surround-
ing district. His salary, guaranteed by the presbytery, has been
hitherto paid, by a gratuity of I.., 20 from the scheme of the Ge-
neral Assembly for the employment of probationers; by L. 10
annually from Sir Archibald Campbell; and the remainder by con-
tributions or subscriptions from several individuals connected with
the presbvtery or the district. The population of the district is
not able to give much for his support, with the exception of a few
families, who subscribe liberally. The sitting-, are free.
The parish churches were built in 1794, but were much injured
in 1837 by lightning. They were repaired in 1838 at great ex-
pense; and the English church especially is seated and fitted up
elegantly and comfortably. The Gaelic church is seated for 470,
and the Etialish for 450. The sittings in both are free.
The minister of the landward charge, or Gaelic congregation,
as the first or oldert charge, has a right to a glebe ; but the only
church lands being those of Kilmilieu, iinmediatelv adjoining the
I)uke of Argyle's castle, the sum of L. 45 has een for many
years given as an equivalent for a glebe. The minister of the
lowland congregation has right to a manse and garden, and he has
L. 30 per annum from the . Exchequer, as the minister of a
burgh without a glebe. As in times past, each minister
bad a servitude of grass for two cows and a horse, granted them
by the Duke of Argyle, and the present Duke disponed to the
Fninister of the lowland congregation two acres and a-balf of arabi.


