
            456                       PERTSHIRE.

            lishing nature in a state of beauty or grandeur, can they leave it
            without: bearing along with them feelings of high gratification.
              Geoloqy and Mineralogy.*-The, rocks of the parish are said to
            consist almost entirely of the oldest or primitive class, and are, for
            the most part, of a highly crystalline structure, and devoid of or-
            ganic remains or petrifactions.  Where the rocks are stratified,
            the beds or strata run usually in a course from south-west to north-
            east, and dip generally to the southward, at angles rarely reaching
            30&deg;. The mountains generally run in lines from south-west to
            north-east, parallel to the prevailing direction of the strata. The
            principal rock in the parish is the mica slate, which presents
            many varieties, and is in some places intermixed with some of those
            inter-stratified rocks which are commonly associated with it. There
            are gneiss, clay slate, chlorite slate and some varieties of horn-
            blende slate. The chlorite slate is very conspicuous in Ben-
            lawers, and in the ridge that is continuous with it. In the south-
            ern, part of the parish, and not far from the village of Kenmore,
            where the mica slate joins with the clay slate, there occurs
            a variety of this approaching in character both to chlorite and to
            talc slate, which has been wrought for building the Castle of
            Taymouth. It is an excellent stone for architectural purposes,
            and resembles that of which Inverary Castle is built. Beds of
            primitive limestone occur in two or three places, on both sides
            of Lochtay, forming beds among the other primitive rocks,
            and conformable to.,them in direction and position. They are
            often extenuated after a very short course, so as to disappear
            sometimes, however, they recur again, in the same line, so as to
            make us suppose, that they have been continued without our per-
            large bed which extendds north-east towards Shichallein and Blair-
            Athoil, between which and Lochtay there are beds of this rock,
            which appear in several places.
              Zoology.-It is unnecessary to enlarge our article by many ob-
            servations on the zoology of the parish, as there can hardly be
            anything in this respect to distinguish it from others similarly situ-
            ated. There is a long, zoological list, given by the late Dr Stuart
            in his Statistical  Account of the parish of Luss, Vol. xvii. 247 and
            it is likely that at one time or other of the year, there may be found,
            either remaining with us, or visiting us, almost every one of the

<FOOTNOTE>The scientific part of the articles Geology, Mineralogy, and Botany, has been
   furnished by a member of the writer's family.
      

