
          356                       BANFFSHIRE.

          derstand the property now called "Atichlunkart," then these two
          Davochs constitute the greater part of what was the parish of Bo-
          barm down to the year 1788, and it is conjectured that the church
          at Arndilly having been allowed to go to ruin, perhaps even before
          the Reformation, the chapel of the Castle of Bucharin, in a much
          more centrical and convenient situation, became the place of wor-
          ship for the whole district, and gave name to the parish.
            In the year 1788, the parish of Dundurcos, lying due north
          from Boharm, on both sides of the Spey, was suppressed, and the
          part of it which lay to the east of the river was annexed to Bo-
          barm, except one small property, Aikenway, which, with the lands
          on the west side of the river, was annexed to Rothes. The an-
          nexation added to Boharm upwards of a third both in extent of
          surface and in the number of the population.
            The old parish is in the county of Banff.  The annexation, ex-
          cepting a small fragment in Banffshire, is in the county of Elgin.
            Name.-The name, Bucharin, Bucharn, Boharme, Boharm, is
          said, in the former Account, and in Shaw's History, to signify in
          Gaelic "the bow round the hill," and this is very descriptive of the
          parish as now constituted : for the Spey being the boundary on the
          west, and the mountain Benagen rising almost abruptly from the
          bed of that river, the cultivated part of the parish consists chiefly
          of a circular valley on the south, east, and north sides of the hill.
          But as this description is only partially applicable to the district so
          named of old, the old parish containing only one-half of the bow,
          one is rather inclined to seek another derivation, and to suppose
          that the castle, whence, as we have seen, the parish had its ori-
          gin, took its n`me from its own situation, and bestowed it on its
          dependent district.  It stood on the point where the brook Al-
          tarn, now Aldernie, i. e. the burn of alders, flows into the Fiddich,
          which, just at that point, takes a very singular turn in its course.
          Hence, perhaps, Bucharn, or " the bend of the alder stream," for
          the name of the castle, and so from the castle to the parish which
          it originated.
             Boundaries and Extent.- The parish, as now formed, is bound-
          ed by Mortlach on the south; by Aberlour on the south-west;
          by Rothes on the west ; by Focbabers or Bellie on the north and
          north-east ; by Keith on the east; and by Botriphnie on the
          south-east.  From the boundary with Aberlour at the confluence
          of the Fiddich with the Spey, it is about l3 miles in length.


