
     of Cimbraes.

the ferry being often interrupted by storms.  From 1600 to
2000 yards of coarse linen, however, and some linen yarn,
are exported from the island; with free-stone, to the value
of fully more than 20 cl. a year*.

   Village, Harbour and Roads-The village of Milnport, con-
tains about 60 houses, which have been mostly built within these
25 years, and are still increasing.  It is pleasantly situated on the
S. W. side of the island, and has a commodious dry harbour,
that will admit vessels of considerable burden, particularly du-
ring spring tides, when the water rises from 10 to 12 feet along
the shores.  There is also an anchoring ground, which is well
sheltered by a small rocky island, where vessels may be moor-
ed to iron rings in the rocks, and ride in safety in the greatest
storms.  The prosperity of this village, as well as that of the
island, is much owing to its being the rendezvous of the Royal
George revenue cutter, Captain James Crawford.  The offi-
cers and crew of this vessel are inhabitants of the island.  There
is little done to the roads, excepting to that between the vil-
lage and ferry, which has lately been repaired, and a ready
intercourse established between the island and Largs.

   Proprietors and Rents.-The whole island belongs to the
Earls of Glasgow+ and Bute.  The valued rent is 1087 L. 8 s. 2 d.

     3 D 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*All the free-stone, employed in erecting the much improved harbour of
Portpatrick, was taken from this island.

   +About the beginning of last century, according to the tradition of the
island, there was a family of the name of Montgomerie, who then possessed the
greatest past of the land now belonging to Lord Glasgow, and had a mansion
house at Billikellet.  Among the last of that family was Dame Margaret Mont-
gomerie, joint patroness of the kirk, who, being on horseback at the green of the
Large, is said to have been thrown off amidst a crowd of people; but, being a
woman of high spirit, she pursued the horse, and received a stroke of his foot,


