
356                            KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

trouble to witness from the summit of either of these mountains,
the rising of the summer sun over Skiddaw and the Cumberland
range. At such a moment, the broad and still waters of Solway,
reflecting the dark and rocky shores of the Scottish coast, form a
picture worthy the pencil of Claude.
	After leaving Orchardton, the road passes for nearly two miles
along the shore, fringed with extensive plantations, till it reaches
the village of Auchencairn, situated at the head of the bay of that
name. This is a thriving place, with much of an English cha-
racter in its general aspect. The houses are of a superior de-
scription,--interspersed witli trees,--built on no regular plan,--but
exhibiting, as a whole, that cheerful and riant appearance for
which the villages of the south are so remarkable. The neigh-
bourhood is beautiful, commanding a full view of Orchardton, and
comprehending the mountain scenery already described, with Col-
lin, the pleasant residence of Mr Welsh, at the head of the bay.
A little to the south of the village stands the old mansion of
Auchencairn, long the abode of the family of Culton of Auchen-
abony; and two miles along the west side of the bay of Auch-
encairn is situated the modern mansion of Nutwood, built
by the late Major Culton, with its policy overhanging the water.
Still fartlier down, upon the very margin of the bay, stands Bal-
cary, the beautiful residence of Mrs Gordon, widow of the late
Mr Gordon of Culvennan. The green isle of Heston forms a
fine feature in the mouth of the bay, and, as it were, handlocks
it, giving to the whole much of the character of lake scenery.
Outside the bay again, the shores of Rerrick, towards the west,
and along the Ileughs of Rascarrel, Barlocco, Orroland, Port-
mary, and  Netherlaw, present the boldest and most sublime fea-
tures of coast scenery.  Two caverns upon the Barlocco shore, call-
ed the White and Black Cove, are particularly worthy of notice.
The entrance to the former is as lofty as the mast of some great
Ammiral, and its vast extent reminds the spectator of the airy
and echoing balls of Fingal in Staffa.  The Black Cove is of an
opposite and gloomy character, and its dark caverns would form
no unfit habitation for the Spirit of the Solway.
	For five miles to the west of Auchencairn, the road passes along
comparatively an uninteresting ridge of the parish, still, however,
commanding fine views of the Solway and the English coast,
till at length it opens upon the beautiful and secluded valley of


