
60                           FORFARSHIRE.

tivation. The old infield is let at L. 3, 5s; but there are fields
which, if let by themselves, would not yield more than 12s. or 14s.
per acre, and obviously do not pay the expenses of their improve-
ment.
        Rate of Wages, &c.-The average rate of wages during the year
for males employed in husbandry is L. 12 ; for females L. 6, inclusive
of board. Labourers, without victuals, receive 1s. 8d. per day in
summer, and 1s. 6d. in winter: Masons, carpenters, &c. 2s. 6d. in
summer, and 2s. in winter. Artisans, however, are now seldom
paid by the day, but contract for different pieces of work. A plough
will cost L. 3, 3s., a cart L. 14, the shoeing of a farm-horse for a
year 12s.
        Husbandry.-The usual period of a lease is now only nineteen
years. The character of the husbandry of the parish is derived
from its vicinity to the populous town of Dundee, where abun-
dance of manure can be procured, and where a ready sale is found
for grass, turnips, and potatoes. The crop that yields the highest
price is the most extensively cultivated, though the rules of good
husbandry should be for a while suspended. A rotation of, 1.
oats;  2. turnips or potatoes; 3. barley or wheat; 4. grass-was for
sometime commonly adopted. This rotation is now abandoned,
and the land allowed either to remain above one year in grass, or
the cropping is otherwise extended, so as to prevent the necessity
of sowing with grass every fourth year. Some of the farmers, in-
stead of selling their crops to the Dundee cow-feeders, have ex-
tensive dairies themselves; and several persons reside in the parish
who have no land, but keep a number of cows, and are every day
busily employed in conveying the crops they have purchased from
the neighbouring farmers to their abodes, and again, in disposing
of the produce of their dairies among the inhabitants of Dundee.
	A large extent of waste ground has been reclaimed within the
last sixty years. About the year 1772, Mr Graham of Fintry
began to improve an extensive waste in the neighbourhood of
Dundee; and in 1790, Admiral Laird was actively employed in
various improvements on the estate of Strathmartine; and the
plantations which he reared, particularly on the higher grounds,
enrich the landscape, improve the climate, and afford a useful
supply of timber for agricultural purposes. The agriculture of
the parish remains very much in the same state to which it was
raised by the high prices of grain during the war. The land may
be said to be all drained; and yet a little is still done in this


