
50                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

the sea had receded, as it has evidently done in later times, from this
part of the country, a forest, in the lapse of ages, must have grown.
All this beautiful part of Scotland, both hill and dale, was covered
with wood, and formed a part of the ancient Caledonian forest. We
are informed by the history of the Romans, who conquered this
country, and kept possession of it about 500 years, that the Cale-
donian forest was cut down by the Roman soldiers in the beginning
of the third century. The marks of their hatchets have been seen
on many of the large trees, lying beside their immense roots. And
on the north side of the Forth, in the parish of Kincardine, where
Mr Home Drummond of Blair Drummond, and Colonel Graham of
Meiklewood, have cleared away the moss, to the depth of 12 or 15
feet-roots were seen as thick as trees in a forest. Part of a Roman
spear was found on Colonel Graham's property, and also some
smooth stones, in the shape of gun flints, which are supposed to
have been used by the aborigines in flaying cattle.
   Zoology.--Roe-deer breed in great numbers, in the glen of Bo-
quhan, at the western boundary of this parish. They also frequent
occasionally the glen of Leckie, which affords an excellent cover
for game, and which the proprietor, Mr Moir, has with fine taste,
and at great expense, beautified with winding paths and shrub,
on both sides of the wooded banks of the burn. In the woods
are seen, squirrels, foxes, polecats or foumarts, badgers, weasels,
hedgehogs, hares, and rabbits. And besides the common species
of small birds, there are pheasants, crows, jackdaws, magpies,
woodcocks wood-pigeons, grouse, partridges, snipes, wild-ducks,
herons and hawks. The herons have, for time immemorial, built
their nests on a row of Scotch firs, near the mansion-house of
Meiklewood; but since the new house was built, they have taken
their departure. The hawks build their nests on the almost inac-
cessible cliffs of Ballochleam. These are the falcon hawks; and
gentlemen in several parts of England have sent repeatedly to take
their young, for the purpose of taming them for hunting.
   The cattle which are reared in the parish, are generally of the
Ayrshire breed. Black-faced sheep are bred; because it is the
opinion of the farmers, that this kind agrees best with the soil.
Some very strong, handsome, aud valuable horses of the Clydes-
dale breed, are reared. Hogs, both of a small and large kind, are
bred.
   The river Forth abounds with perch, pike, and eels; but trout
and salmon are not so plentiful, since moss began to be cast into
                             4


