
			      FARR.                              69

points in its vicinity. And there is an excellent road on the north
side of the loch, from which the tourist can see the whole with ease
and advantage.
   The principal rivers in the parish are the Naver, the Borgie, and
the Strathy. The Naver issues from the loch already described,
near Achness, at which place it receives a large stream running
from Loch Coir-na-fearn. From Achness it runs north-east, a
distance of eighteen miles, until it enters the ocean at the farm
of Airdniskech. Besides its supply from Loch Naver and Loch
Coir-na-fearn, it receives a number of considerable streams in its
course through the strath, so that, when flooded in winter, it is
the largest river in the county. The Naver is not rapid in its
course, the declivity of the strath being very gradual. The
Strathy flows from the loch of that name, and from the adja-
cent hills and marshes; and is, when flooded, a large stream.
The Borgie runs from Loch Loyal in the parish of Tongue; and
is, in some parts of its course, the boundary line between this pa-
rish and Tongue. But its salmon-fishings have been for a long
time the property of the Noble family of Sutherland. It enters the
Northern Ocean within a mile of the Naver, at a place in the pa-
rish of Tongue called Torrisdale.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks and stones in this parish,
of which immense quantities are to be seen in every direction,
especially along the coast, appear to be chiefly coarse granite, gneiss,
and sandstone. In Kirtomy on the sea-coast, there is an exten-
sive deposit of old red sandstone, mixed with conglomerate. At
Strathy, there is a large quarry of white sandstone, which takes
dressing by the chissel; and near it, a considerable extent of lime-
stone, from which excellent lime is manufactured for the supply of
the parishioners.
   The most of the rocks and precipices along the shore exhibit a
great variety of veins and fissures which cut across the strata, and
greatly derange and alter them. But in many places on the coast
and in the interior, the strata are distinctly and regularly arranged:
and in such cases the inclination and dip are not many degrees
from perpendicular. The most striking and marked exception is
at Strathy, in the free and limestone quarries, where the strata are
horizontal.
   The soil along the coast, especially near the bays, is light and
sandy; on the banks of the Naver and Strathy it is composed of
sand, gravel, and moss; and in the interior, at the base of the


