
898                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

about L.8 annually; but his situation will soon be more comfort-
able, as a legacy of L.200 has been left by a benevolent parish-
ioner for the endowment of this school, (under the management of
the treasurer of the kirk-session,) the interest of which will be
available to the teacher after it has accumulated to the amount of
the legacy tax.  Miss Irvine of Drum's school was established
last year, and is intended chiefly for affording instruction to girls
in needle-work.  The mistress has a free house, and draws a quar-
terly fee of 2s. 6d. for sewing, and of 3s. when the first lessons in
English reading are added.  The number of scholars at present
attending this little but useful seminary is 22.  In the parochial and
Glashmore schools the religious instruction of the young is attend-
ed to on the week days, and in the latter, also, on the Sabbath.
   Literature.-A parish library was instituted in 1827, and con-
tains about 300 volumes.  Subscribers are supplied with books of
a historical nature every Monday evening at the parochial school,
and with religious publications at the church, every Lord's day
after sermon.  The terms of subscription are 6d. per quarter.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor on the re-
gular roll last year was 8, and the average amount of supply given
to each was L.3, 3s. 10 1/2d.  There were also 17 who required
temporary relief, and received the average sum of L.1, 2s. 11 1/4d.
The amount of ordinary collections at the church during the same
period was L.34, 18s. 10 3/4d.; interest of mortifications available to
the poor, L.3, 14s.; interest of savings in the hands of the heri-
tors at 5 per cent., L.19, 18s. 10 3/4d.; morthcloth and proclamation
dues, L.1, 3s.; legacies and donations, L.4; and 12 bolls of mor-
tified meal are annually divided among decayed tenants in the land
of Drum.  There are frequent instances among the poor of unwill-
ingness to accept of parochial aid.
   Fairs.-Five fairs are annually held in the parish, chiefly for
the sale of cattle; but, being of recent appointment, they are ex-
ceedingly ill-attended, and consequently little business is transact-
ed in them.
   Inns.-We have two inns, both of which are in some measure
necessary, the one being a stage between Aberdeen and Banchory-
Ternan, the other between Aberdeen and Kincardine O'Neil.
   Fuel.-The fuel most commonly employed is peat and wood;
but coals carried from Aberdeen are frequently used, especially in
the lower part of the parish, where the mosses are nearly ex-
hausted.
   Written February 1840.  Revised Auqust 1842.


