
                           LOGIERAIT.                 699

for communion elements.  The Parliamentary church of Rannoch
embraces, quoad sacra, the part of the parish which is situated in
that remote district.  There is no chapel of ease, missionary, or
catechist.  There is an Episcopal chapel, and also a Baprtist
meeting-house.  There are in this parish 50 Episcopalians, 30
Baptists, 10 Independents, and 2 Roman Catholics.  There were
distributed this year the following sums for religious and charita-
ble objects, and I consider the amount of fairly proportionate to
the resources of the parish, as well as an average specimen of what
is done in this department: Perth Infirmary, L.8; India Mis-
sion, L.5; Assembly's Schools, L.5; Church Extension, L.4;
Colonial churches, L.4; parish Sabbath schools, L.5; circula-
tion of missionary intelligence, L.2; total, L.33.  There have
also been collected among different denominations for the Branch
Bible Society at Dunkeld sums ranging from L.10 to L.16 per
annum, during a number of years.  The provision and outlay for
the poor is, on an average, as follows:  Collections, L.50, 6s.4d.;
interest of stock of L.150, L.6; church dues, mortcloth, dona-
tion, &c., L.32, 14s. 2/14d.; extraordinary provision for idiot poor,
L.18.  At present none is supported in any asylum.
     There are on poor's roll commonly about 32 persons, ex-
clusive of Parliamentary district; and the number of persons oc-
casionally relieved is about 12.  The monthly allowance varies
from 2s. 6d. to 4s.  A very few cases are relieved to the amount
of 6s. monthly.
     Education.--There is one parish school, one free-or endowed
school, and there are eight adventure schools; total number of
scholars receiving the benefit of a common educations, 634.  The
parish school is endowed with the maximum salary, and L5. yearly
from the rents of the bishoprick of Dunkeld.
     Stewart's Free School, Strathtay.--David Stewart was a native
of Strathtay.  Removing to Edinburgh in early life, a poor lad,
be found employment in the family of one of the Barons of Ex-
chequer, and subsequently became a macer in that court.  Be-
sides leaving funds, which are soon to become available for the
endowment of an hospital Edinburgh, he left a sum for the
purchase of six acres of land, and the erection of a school-house,
for the encouragement of education his native district, with the
interest of L.2500 for the support of a master and assistant, and
the supply of stationery and prizes.  The duties of the trustees
and masters are ascertained by the contents of a deed containing 














































































