
     30                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

ness, that its inhabitants are employed with full delight in those
exercises and pursuits, which constituted their enjoyment in the
present.  The barbarous ScaDdinavians were no exception to this
general rule.  Even the most enlightened Christians have the
same belief with respect to themselves.  If they delight in serving
and praising God on earth, they hope to be for ever happy in the
same employments above.
     The only relics of antiquity, known to have been dug up in
the parish, may be described in Mr Hugh Miller's words:
"Not more than sixty years ago, a bank of blown sand, directly
under the nnrthern Sutor, which had been heaped over the soil
ages before, was laid open by the winds of a stormy winter, when
it was discovered that the nucleus on which it bad formed,
was composed of the bones of various animals of the chase, and
the horns of deer. It is not much more than twelve years since,
there were dug up in the same sandy tract two earthern urns,-
the one filled with ashes and fragments of half-burned bones, the
other with bits of a black biturninous-looking stone, somewhat re-
sembling jet, which bad been fashioned into beads, and little flat
parallelograms, perforated. edgewise, with four holes apiece. No-
thing could be ruder than the workmanship. The urns were clum-
sily modelled by the hand, unassisted by a lathe; the ornaments
rougb and unpolished, and still bearing the marks of the tool, re-
sembled nothing of modern production, except perhaps the toys
which berd-boys sometimes amuse their leisure in formiiig with
the knife."  One of the urns is now in the possession of James
Taylor, Esq. of Nigg.  In the brow of the north Sutor, fronting
Cromarty, there was once, according to tradition, a wondrous gem,
which occasionally in the night season emitted a light more bril-
liant than the zeolite of Iceland, or the carbuncle of the Wardbill
of Hoy.  But it has long since disappeared, and not a crown in
Europe seems to possess it.
Modern Buildingr.-The only building worthy of mention is
the mansion-house of Bayfield. It was built about forty-five years
ago, and no house in the country can exceed it in point of com-
fort. But it has an awkward appearance, owing to the door front-
ing the north, and the naked and unimproved appearance of the
surrounding grounds.
Parochial Registers.-The session records of the parish com-
mence on 17tb December 1705. They have not in general been
well kept, and some of them were accidentally burnt, many years


