
822                       FIFESHIRE

or rivulet. Hence Dun-fair-linne or loin will mean, The Fort or
Castle, which commands the pool or stream,-or shortly, The
Watch-tower of or upon the stream. This is thought the most
simple derivation, and most agreeable to the Gaelic idiom, and
therefore is preferable to another, the more common, and also
quite correct one, which makes Dun and linne or loin as above,
and fiar, crooked or winding, so that Dun-fiar-linne or loin, will
signify, The Castle upon the crooked or curved pool or winding
stream. Both these etymologies are suitable to the locality from
which it is most probable the name was taken, the tower or resi-
dence of King Malcolm III. being situated upon a mount in Pit-
tencrieff Glen, on the west side of the church, around which a little
stream winds.
   The word, Dunfermline, was anciently written Dunfermelyn,
Dunfermelyne, Dunfermling, Dunfermlyng, Dwdfermling, Dom-
fermeling, Dounfranelin, and Dunfermlis; and in Latin, Dunum
Fermilinum, Dunum Fermelini, Fermelinodunum, Fermalinodu-
num, Fermilodunensis, and Fermilodunum. This last mode of
writing the name, appears on the present common seal of the
burgh, the armorial bearing of which is a tower or fort, supported
by two lions. Around the device is a circle, on which are inscrib-
ed the words SIGILLVM CIVITATIS VERMILODVNI. In the ancient
seal of the burgh, which has been long lost, but some impressions
of which remain, there were around the same arms two circles, in
the exterior of which were engraved the words just quoted, with
the name of the town, spelled FERMELODUNI, and the interior,
the words ESTO RUPES INACCESSA. On the reverse side was the
figure of a lady, holding a sceptre, and on each side an inverted
sword, handle downwards, surrounded by the words MARGARETA
REGINA SCOTORUM. All these legends are in Roman capitals.
   The arms of the burgh evidently refer to the origin of the
town, and show what has been the prevailing opinion as to the
derivation of its name. For there is a peninsulated eminence in
Pittencrieff Glen, as already noticed, close by the town, of about
seventy feet in height, and very steep, rugged, and rocky on the
north side, on which stood a tower commonly called King Mal-
colm Canmore's Tower, or his residence at Dunfermline, and pro-
bably built by him. The name of his Queen was Margaret,
afterwards canonized, and named St Margaret. A small coarse
fragment of two walls of this tower, strongly cemented with
lime, mixed evidently with sea and, from the quantity of shell

