
                             INNERKIP.                   *499

about 1000; in undivided common, about 200; under wood, about
30.
  In the same district, the average rent of land is about L.1 per
acre. The real rental of the quoad sacra parish of Gourock is
L.2500.
  The land On all the estates in Innerkip has been considerably
improved during the last forty years. Furrow-draining has been
carried on with great spirit; and the late Sir Michael S. Stewart
and MT Wallace of Kelly have given liberal encouragement to that,
and other improvements on land. The Shaw's water aqueduct, of
which a description is given in the Account of Greenock, passes
through the parish, and a part of the reservoir is in it. But the
principal improvement since the beginning of the century, has been
the making of the new turnpike road from Greenock to lnnerkip.
  Mantufactures.--There is a rope-work, in the parish belonging
to the Gourock Rope Work Company. 180 tons of cordage are
here manufactured yearly; value of a ton, L.42. 23 spinners, 3
apprentices, and 9 boys are employed at this work.
   Fishings.--The produce of the fishings of salmon, trout, ling,
cod, haddocks, whitings, &c. in Gourock parish, may,amount to
about L.300 per annum.
   Navigation.--Two sloops and a few small herring wherries be-
long to the villaggre of Gourock.

                     V.--PAROCHIAL EcoNomy.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The amount of the stipend of the minister-
of, Innerkip is L.278. The district of Gourock has been erected,
into a separate parish quoad sacra; and the minister's stipend is-
L160 per annum. Hehas neither manse nor glebe.
   There is a parish library connected with the church at Gourock,
containing nearly 600 volumes.
  Education.-There are two schools in the parish; salary of the
parochial teacher, L30, 15s.; amount of his fees, - about L.26 per-
annum.  In Gourock parish, there is a school endowed by George
Rainy, Esq. with the handsome sum of-L.500.
  Poor-In the Gourock. quoad, sacra parish, there are 12 regu-
lar paupers besides 20 who receive, occasional aid of from L.1, 16s.                                 at ai& tfro614 I
L.4 per annum. The poor in this place have great advantages
from the strangers who resort to it for sun-bathing quarters, who  			&d*kKt**1
are very kind to them. The total amount distributed among the
poor is about L. 60 per annum; of which about L.30 is from church
collections, and the like sum from alms and legacies.

  January 1842.
    RENFREW.


