
20                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

of a calcareous marl, which is sometimes employed for agricultural
purposes instead of lime.
   These three rocks are the only ones occurring in this parish,-
probably partly traversing and partly resting on the red sandstone,
which forms the regular strata of the district, resting on the transition
rocks of Lammermoor, and covered by the coal formation of Mid-
Lothian. The soil of the parish is, for the most part, near the river,
of a sandy or gravelly nature. To the north of this it becomes gra-
dually of a stronger nature, till it ends in avery stiff clay; and, far-
ther north again it becomes lighter. To the south it is calcareous. *
   Zoology.-Under this head, it may be mentioned that our birds
of prey are, for the most part, confined to the kestril (Falco tinnun-
culus), the ringtail (F. cyaneus), and the sparrow hawk (F. nisus),
and two species of owls. We have no grouse of any kind, but
partridges and pheasants are numerous. In severe winters the
Bohemian chatterer (Garrulus Bohemicus) has once or twice been
seen. The kingfisher once frequented the river, but is now ex-
tinct. Perhaps the sand martin (Hirundo riparia) is more numerous
than in most places. In autumn various sea birds, as the gull ge-
nus, particularly the Larus canus, and the cormorant and duck tribe,
visit us. The latter, especially the common wild duck and the
widgeon, frequent the mouth of the river in flocks of many hundreds
every winter. Herons are common, and breed in the neighbour-
ing parish of Whitekirk.
   The Tyne contains very large trout, eels, flounders, and a good
many small salmon, with several minute species. From our in-
land situation, our invertebrate animals are almost wholly confined
to insects. Concerning these there is little particularly worthy of
notice. The Death's-Head Sphinx (Sphinx atropos) was found
very frequently in 1825 in the pupa state in potato fields. The
Puss Moth (Cerura vinula) is also common. The damage done
to wheat crops of late years by the Cecidomyia tritici, or wheat-fly,
is well known. The Stomoxys calcitrans, or common stinging-fly,
which in hot weather persecutes men and beasts with its painful bite,
is more numerous in this district than in most parts of Scotland.
   Botany,-Owing to the highly cultivated state of this district,
it affords a still less interesting field to the botanist than to the
zoologist. There are no natural woods in the parish, but a good

<FOOTNOTE>It may here be remained that the geognostical descriptive languageg by the
authors of the Statistical Reports is that introduced many years ago by Professor
Jameson, and which no, notwithstanding the violent opposition it met with, is uni-
versally adopted bu British geologist.


