
360	                        AYRSHIRE.

that flows down the valley, there hs a curious mound of earth and
stones, nearly opposite to Bogside, which has always been regard-
ed as the locality of some warlike exploit; and the author of the old
history referred to, has connected with it, by a description so gra-
phic as not to be mistaken, a story of ruthless violence and most
tragic interest.
	The feuds between the Earls of Cassilis and the Lairds of Bar-
gany had been of long continuance, and were scarcely healed, till
by some new act of treachery or violence they broke out anew.
On the 11th day of December 1601, the Earl of Cassilis hav-
ing learned that the Laird of Bargany was to ride from the town
of Ayr to his own mansion on the water of Girvan, attended only
bv a few followers, determined to waylay and attack the party. He
accordingly left his castle of Maybole with 200 armed followers,
and took his station at the Lady Corse, about half a-mile north of
the town. The Laird of Bargany, with his small retinue, soon ap-
peared at the Brochloch, on the opposite side of the valley, and
seeing the Earl thus attended, said to his men that he desired no
feud, and would not threw himself in the Earl's way. He accord-
ingly led them down the north bank of the rivulet by Bogside,
thinking that in this way he might prosecute his route homewards
without coming into collision at such disadvantage with his enemy.
The Earl, however, determined to avail himself of his superior
force, followed down the south side, and coming to some " feal
dikes," which offered a good support to the fire-arms of his fol-
lowers, they immediately began to discharge them at Bargany and
his men. *
        Bargany finding that lie could not avoid the rencontre, crossed
the burn; but on reaching the south side of it, he perceived that none
bad ventured to follow him "but the Lairdes of Auchendrayne
and Clocaird, James Bannatyne and Edward Irwing;" and on
observing this, he turned round and said, of the assailants; but, overpowered
with superior numbers, Auchendrayne was ere long "shott and
hurte in the kernellis of the thie, and his horse also: James Ban-
natyne's horse was slayne: Edward Irwing, the peadge, was slayne
be ane straike of ane lanse. Bot now," continues our author, who

<FOOTNOTE>At nu distant period a "feal dike" stretched along the side of the small burn
near to the mound referred to, and probably formed a part of it. The names of all
the places mentioned by the old historian still remain, and nothing can be more dis-
tinct than the scene of the movements and onset which he so spiritedly relates.


