
250                    BERWICKSHIRE.

recompense,the labour employed, and therefore the exertions in
search of it have been discontinued.
   Zooloqy.-The lake at Dunse Castle is well stocked with tench,
perch, and eels; but attempts to stock it with trout have not been very
successful. In the months of September and October, salmon and
grilse in great numbers ascend the Whitadder to its very source,
and all its tributary streams, even those that, are inconsiderable,-for
the purpose of depositing their spawn in the gravel. The whit-
ling, a smaller fish, resembling them in quality and habits, is also
found in considerable numbers; also a coarser fish somewhat simi-
lar, and commonly called the bull-trout. They return to the sea
with the first spring floods. In May the common burn trout is in
abundance: although not accounted so rich in quality, it is more
delicate in flavour than the trout of the Blackadder. Though the
Whitadder and Blackadder unite their streams a few miles below
Dunse (after their union retaining the name of Whitadder,) the
quality of the trout remains quite distinct; and salmon is seldom
known to enter the Blackadder, although at their junction there
is no remarkable difference in their size.
   Pheasants were introduced into the woods at Dunse Castle,
about twenty years ago, and abound there and in the neighbouring
Plantations.
                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The original charter erecting Dunse into a burgh of barony was
granted in the year 1489 by James IV. A charter was also grant-
ed by James VI. to Cuthbert Home in Dunse of nine acres of
land, and "confirmand ane charter yrof granted to him by Sir
Hugh Hudson, Chaplane of the alter of the Virgin Marye in
Dunse, dated 1584."
   Eminent Men.-As far as tradition is entitled to any credit,
John Duns Scotus, Doctor Subtilis, appears to have been a native of
this parish. His father was a younger son of Duns of Grueldykes,
a cadet of Duns of that ilk, and the house in which he is said to have
been born was situated in the old town of Duns, near the gate leading
to Dunse Castle. A large stone, now forming part of apark wall, has
been pointed out from generation to generation as having belonged
to the house in which he was born. There are different accounts
as to the date of this extraordinary man's birth,-some placing
it in the year 1265, and others in 1274. All agree that he early
entered into a monastery of Franciscan or Gray friars, but all are
not equally agreed whether at Newcastle or Dumfries; whence he


