
                       DRUMBLADE.                       309

quarters, with a due proportion of green crop, according to the
husbandry, consisting of potatoes and turnips, for cattle and for do
mestic uses.  Of the grain there may be 6000 quarters exported
   The ordinary duration of leases is nineteen years, and the rents
are paid generally in money, or with a small proportion, perhaps,
in meal.  The paying of rent by the fiar prices, with a maximum
and minimum, which many think would be the fairest plan, has not
yet been introduced here.
   Farms vary in extent from 250 to 20 acres; but there is a num-
ber of crofts, besides, considerably smaller, and this variety does not
seem to work unfavourably.
   Farm-Buildings.-The farm-houses and offices (and the former
more especially) are not in general in proper keeping with the value
of the farms to which they are attached, nor with the amount of
capital of which the occupants must necessarily be possessed in
order to carry them on, owing to the very limited encouragement
generally given for this purpose.
   It may be mentioned that the system usually practised is, that
the whole burden of the houses falls upon the occupant, for which
he is allowed a certain return at the end of his lease, provided they
shall then be declared of that value, and whatever additional build-
ings in the course of his lease his growing industry may require, he
may erect the same if he please, but it is entirely at his own risk
and responsibility, the landlord holding himself bound to no more
than the certain modified sum originally specified, whatever now
may be their additional value.  Here it is evident the terms are un-
equal.  Should dilapidation ensue the tenant may get less than the
sum agreed upon at entry, but should the value be never so much
increased by additional or improved accommodation, that allowance
becomes no more.  The tenant's interest in the buildings accord-
ingly being thus limited to the duration of his lease, with the ex-
ception of the small sum above refereed to, which seldom, it is be-
lieved, nearly-covers his outlays he has no encouragement either to
make them substantial, or even to build them to an extent equal to
his requirements; and thus, in fact, there is a constant building
and patchwork going on of the most inferior and unsubstantial
kind.  There is a twofold evil manifestly arising out of this system.
1st, The general inferiority of the farmer's accommodations; and
2d, The circumstance that a certain portion of his capital should,
through the full currency of his lease, be made to lie thus wholly
unproductive, which, were the necessary accommodations afforded


