
348                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the year removed from the salutary restraints of the presence of
acquaintances and friends, and from the still more important re-
straints of pastoral superintendence and gospel ministrations. The
service of the sanctuary conducted in English is to them in an un-
known tongue, from which they derive no benefit, and on which
consequently they do not wait. They are, while in the south,
strangers, in whose moral or religious circumstances no one feels
an interest; and thus abandoned to their own wills, and exposed
to the contact of society worse than themselves, they become each
year more and more callous, and lawless, more and more confirm-
ed in vice. A provision for the religious instruction of these poor
wanderers who annually migrate from their own homes in quest of
subsistence would certainly be a desirable boon.
The people universally have a sense of religion,-of the religion
of nature. Indeed, I have never met with a common Highlander
who did not shudder at the mere mention of Atheism. At the
same time, however, they are very ignorant of the religion taught
in the Bible,-of the way of salvation through Christ Jesus. A
strict profession of holiness is, it may be remarked, more honour-
ed here than in many other parts of Scotland, the neighbouring
county of Ross alone excepted, and there are some who act up to
their profession. Yet the people generally are unacquainted both
with the letter and the spirit of true religion, and there is much
superstition, the sure concomitant of ignorance, still lingering
among them. Our limits forbid us to enter at any length on this
subject, but we may remark, that while it is now rare, though not
unknown, to use charms or incantations for curing the diseases of
the human frame, these means are daily resorted to for curing the
diseases of cattle. "Silver water," as it is called, "fairy arrows,"
and "charmed stones," are still held to be possessed of much ef-
ficacy, and they who have power to call forth their virtues are held
in high estimation.
  There is at least one man in the parish who professes to be pos-
sessed of the mysterious power known as the "second-sight." He
affirms that he frequently foresees coming events; but he wishes
not to be spoken to on the subject, and seems to consider his gift
a misfortune more than a benefit.
  Smuggling may be said to be unknown now throughout the isl-
and. A cask of foreign brandy or Hollands, and a roll of smug-
gled tobacco are occasionally, but very rarely, received from some


