
416                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

he obtained a professorship in the College of St Barbe, where he
taught grammar for three years. Returning to Scotland in 1537,
he made to himself enemies of the Popish party by some of his
writings; and, although for some time patronized by James V.,
was at length exposed to their resentment, and was only saved
from destruction by escaping from a window in the Castle of St
Andrews. He was Professor of Latin at Bourdeaux for three
years; and a regent in a college at Paris for about the same time.
He became afterwards a professor in a newly founded college at
Coinibra in Portugal, where he was persecuted by the-modks. He
again obtained a regency in a college in France, where be was
highly honoured, and remained for several years. In 1562, he
had returned to Scotland; and next year, during the mouth of
April, be read with Queen Mary, then in her twentieth year, a
portion of Livy every afternoon. In 1564, she conferred upon him
the ternporalities of the Abbey of Crossraguel; and two years after,
he was appointed, by the Regent Murray , Principal of St Leonard's
College in the University of St Andrews. He lectured on Theo-
logy ; was repeatedly a  member of the General Assembly; and,
in 1567, although not a minister, yet, in his character as a Pro-
fessor of Divinity, at a period when the imposition of hands had
not been introduced into the Reformed Church of Scotland, was
moderator of that court. Being, about 1571, called to superin-
tend the education of James VI., he resigned his principality at
St Andrews, and came to live in Stirling. He resided in a house
in the Castle-Wynd, on the left band proceeding up the street,
which he is said to have erected. This house, interesting both
from its association with the name of this illustrious Scotsman,
and from its ancient form, which imparted a sombre dignity to the
narrow street, and harmonized beautifully, when seen in a particu-
lar direction, with the majesty of the, large and lofty cathedral-
looking church. beyond, was a venerable relic of antiquity. It was
taken down only six years ago. Besides being-commendatory
abbot of Crossraguel and principal preceptor to the King, Bu-
chanan was lord-keeper of the privy-seal, and, ex officio, a Member
of Parliament. He died at Edinburgh on the 28th of September
1682, in his 77th year, and was interred there in the Grayfriar's
Cburch-yard.
  The most eminent individual, as a statesman and warrior, was
John Erskine, sixth Earl of Mar of the name of Erskine. He
Was appointed by James V. Cornmendator of Cambuskenneth and


