
778                               FIFESHIRE.

<TABLE>
      Number of persons betwixt 30 and 50,	   483
                                50 and 70,	   263
                        upwards of 70,	            61

   The lands of this parish are divided among twenty-three pro-
prietors, of whom eighteen possess property of the yearly value of
L.50 and upwards. Eight of the heritors are non-resident. Six
individuals in the parish are fatuous; one is blind from the effects
of an accident; and one is deaf and dumb. There is no peculia-
rity in the general customs or character of the people deserving
of special notice.
                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-This parish gives employment to 186 males as far-
mers and farm-servants. Its surface may amount to about 5000 acres;
of which nearly 600 are entirely adapted for pasturage, and 350 are
planted. The remainder is under regular cultivation. Upon minute
inquiry, the gross rental of the parish at present is fully L.9000.
According to the diversity of soil and situation, the annual rent
per acre varies from 15s. to L.4. The most extensive land-owner
is P. G. Skene, Esq. of Hallyards and Pitlour. The leases ex-
tend, with some trifling exceptions, to nindteen years, the rent
being generally payable, partly in money and partly in grain, ac-
cording to the fiars prices. The tenantry may justly be charac-
terized as an intelligent and enterprizing body of men, under whom
husbandry has reached a very advanced stage of improvement.
In the more fertile farms, a rotation of four years is adopted, its
tendency to exhaust the soil being counteracted by the liberal ap-
plication of manure, partly produced on the farm and partly pro-
cured, at a considerable expense, from the adjacent villages. In
the less fertile soils, the fields are usually allowed to remain three
years in grass, making a rotation of six years. Nearly the whole
parish is divided by substantial enclosures. In several of the
thrashing-machines, water-power is employed; and the farm-
steadings are in general commodious and in good repair. There
is one flour-mill, recently improved and enlarged, and four for
other descriptions of grain.
   Manufactures.-The staple employment of the great body of
the parishioners of both sexes in the village is the manufacture of
linens. These are wrought up in great variety, such as diapers,
damask, dowlas, linen checks, and table-linens. In this depart-
ment of industry, from 500 to 600 persons are engaged. For-
merly, the hand-loom weavers were employed by the extensive
manufacturers of Dunfermline, Dundee, and Kirkcaldy, by means


