
372 	             STIRLINGSHIRE.

attend the tryst. When the land has remained some years in
grass, it is usual to take two crops of oats, when from sixty to se-
venty-six bushels of oats are frequently obtained at each cropping;
then follows a green crop, and the field is laid down with barley
and grass seeds.
  The farming has been very much improved, of late years, in this
parish. The land is kept clean, and the new system of furrow-
draining has been adopted almost universall . This is the only
efficient system, in lands which have a retentive subsoil. It was at
first called wedge-draining, the section of the cutting being a frus-
tum of a triangle inverted, whose base was about ten inches. A
wedge of peat moss was then placed in the top of the drain, so as
to leave a space of eight or ten inches perpendicular for a water-
course. This mode was found to have only a temporary effect,
and the plan of laying for the water-course, a sernicylindrical tile,
which reposes on a flat tile of a breadth exceeding the diameter of
the curved one by about half an inch, is the most approved method.
This mode has been long adopted in England. A foot of space
above the tiles is filled with broken sandstone or Carron cinders,
through which the water percolates. The effect of these drains
is most satisfactory, and the tenants are anxious to carry on the
improvements, even without the assistance of the landlords, which
was necessary before experience had established. the good effects
of the system. Bone dust, i. e. bones ground to powder, has not
been much used as a manure, although it has been applied with
great success in the neigbbourhood. The usual wages of a la-
bourer are 10s. a week throughout the year. A good ploughman
obtains from L.18 to L.22, besides the usual allowances. In ad-
dition to the land above stated, there are 140 acres of moss in
the parish, being a part of Letbam moss. The soil beneath is
of very good quality, but covered with a mass of decayed vege-
table matter, in the form of peat moss, to the depth of from 10
to 16 feet. Very little of it has been cleared; nor does it appear
likely that it will be so, as there is no rapid stream by which the
moss could be carried off.
  Manufactures.-There are several nailers; but, with the excep-
tion of the tambouring of muslins for the Glasgow houses, which oc-

  <FOOTNOTE>For some other particulars respecting draining, see the article Soil in a preced-
ing part of this account. Under the article Soil, are also some remarks on the Hyp-
num or fog in pitstures, and some other matters relating to agriculture.


