
     Of Kirkmichael.

   Population, etc.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the
population in 1755, was 1288.  No sessional records are now
in existence belonging to this parish, previous to the 1725,
when the incumbent before the last was admitted.  Ever
since, it has not been possible to keep them with accuracy.
Dissenters, of whatever denomination, watch the opportunity
of encroaching upon the prerogative of the Established Church.
As the third, then, of the people of this parish are Roman
Catholics, the priest generally takes the liberty of sharing in
the functions that belong to the Protestant clergyman*.
   By the most accurate inquiry, it has been found that this
parish contains 1276 inhabitants, young and old, and of both
sexes.  Of these, 384 are Roman Catholics:  all the indivi-
duals of each profession are included, in 253 families, con-
taining, at an average, 5 persons to a family, with 265 chil-

     VOL. XII. 3 I

<FOOTNOTE>

*From this circumstance, it must happen, that there will be several mar-
riages and baptisms unknown to the session, and consequently cannot have place
in its records.  Hitherto, the present incumbent has not checked this encroach-
ment, from his aversion to every kind of illiberal intolerance; but, on the con-
trary, allowed the Roman Catholic priest to use every liberty, as if toleration
had extended to this country.  He allows him to marry and baptize, im-
pose penalties, and exact them among his own people, in the same manner as
if he were of the Established Church.  The writer of this statistical article
mentions this circumstance, as he thinks it ought to be an invariable rule of
conduct to practise that divine precept, in doing to others, as we would wish
others do unto us.  Some years ago, too, the taxes imposed upon deaths, mar-
riages, and baptisms, made them be considered as a kind of contraband goods,
and for that reason, many of them were as much as possible concealed from
publick view, that they might elude an imposition, which they called tyran-
nical and oppressive.  Though in a different language, this novelty, to their ex-
perience, incited the people frequently to utter the indignant sentiment of Ba-
jaculus, general of the Ansibarii, as mentioned by Tacitus, "Deesse," says he,
"terra in qua vivamus, in qua moriamur, non potest."  To the operations of these
causes, it must be imputed, that so little satisfactory light, respecting the popu-
lation, can be derived from the mutilated records of the session of Kirk-
michael.


