
     Statistical Account

   Progress of Civilization.-It is worth observing, what
change there is in the modes of thinking of the people
within these last 45 years.  Two events have contributed,
in a remarkable manner, to a better way of thinking, and
submission to order and government.  The rebellion of
1745-6 in its good effects, and the subsequent abolition of
the jurisdiction-act.  Previous to that period, property was
chiefly protected by force, and the existing laws known in
theory, but little regarded in many parts of the High-
lands.  Thieving was trade in many countries, and car-
ried on on a large scale, with much contrivance and faga-
city, and countenanced sometimes in private by those who
undertook, for a certain pay called black meal, the protec-
tion of neighbouring districts.  President Forbes of Cullo-
den paid his proportion of this assessment, before the 1745,

<FOOTNOTE>

legal quantity being four acres and a little grass.  It would appear that it
was thought then, that ministers were to live abstracted from this earth al-
together.  There is such a difference between four acres in some places or
countries and others, that there was no justice in the general rule.  What
purpose can many glebes of four acres of poor land in many parts of the
Highlands answer?  Will such a glebe maintain cattle to plough itself, or
two horses to lead the minister's peats?  Which way is his family to get
fuel brought home, or meal carried from the low country, at the dis-
tance of 30 or 40 miles or more?  Was it supposed, that ministers would
be able, at any rate when old, to go on foot through their large parishes,
from one preaching place to another, at many miles distance, through frost
and snow?  Therefore without regard to quantity, every glebe ought to
maintain two cows, and two good horses for ploughing, for the minister's
riding, for leading his peats and meal from any distance necessary.  It is said
heritors reckon it a great hardship that the Court of Session should decern for
victual to ministers in parishes which pay no victual-rent, and perhaps
when enough is not produced for the inhabitants.  Some heritors grudge
every thing that is given to their clergy, as if they had no right to any
thing.  But, besides that victual is the only payment that keeps pace with
the times does it not appear a greater hardship, that a minister should send


