
112              CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

of erection at Dunbeath; an Assembly school established at Ber-
riedale with schoolmaster's accommodation; another Assembly
school, similarly provided at Reisgill, together with  eight unen-
dowed schools in different localities ; the general qualifications
of the teachers considerably raised; the system of teaching vastly
improved; and, consequently, the number of scholars almost in-
credibly increased:  the general average exceeds 1200.  But still
much remains to be done in both departments; and as it is pleas-
ing to reflect, that, in carrying forward these improvements, the
harmony and good understanding subsisting betwixt the heritors
and the present incumbent, have never been interrupted; a circum-
stance not a little creditable to the heritors, considering how many
demands were necessarily made upon them; so it is to be hoped
that the some cordiality and good feeling will be mutually main-
tained in prosecuting those that are still in contemplation.  The
readiness with which they have promoted these improvements, is
very commendable.
   Friendly Societies.-There are two of these of long standing,
one at Dunbeath and the other at Lybster.  In many instances
they have been remarkably useful, both in respect to widows and
orphans, and also the aged and infirm; but for several years back,
they have not been becoming more flourishing, either as to members
or funds.  However, it is to be hoped that the may yet revive.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at present
on the poor's roll is 202; each of whom only receives at the rate
of from 4s. to 8s. at the time of distribution, which is once a-year.
Such of them as are able, make their rounds through the parish
occasionally, in order to obtain aid from those families whose cir-
cumtances enable them to assist them; and those that are bed-
ridden or infirm have assistance sent them by the charitable and
well disposed around them.  There being no parochial assessment,
the collections made at the church doors, together with the inte-
rest arising from a few benefactions, furnish the funds from which
tha poor receive the small pittance which can be  assigned them.
The average church oollections  may amount to L.52 yearly, and
the interest from benefactions, to L. 18.  The  latter consist of
L. 100, left many years ago, by the late Rev.  Dr James Oswald
of Glasgow ; L. 100 by the late John C. Sutherland, Esq. of
Forse in this parish; L. 100 by conductor Sutherland of North
America ; and L.40 by Mr Alexander Finlayson Macdonald of
same place. Much to the credit of the poorer classes, they very


