
			GREENOCK.			423

by public advertisement, was held in the Assembly Rooms on the
30th August 1826. Sir Michael Shaw Stewart presided, and
Mr James Watt, son of the deceased Mr Watt, being in Greenock,
and having expressed a wish that the money subscribed (then
amounting to L. 1703,) should be expended in procaring a statue
by Chantrey, and having promised on that condition to give a li-
beral donation towards the erection of a building for its receptions,
the subscribers, though of different opinions respecting the kind
of monument to be erected, acquiesced unanimously in this propo-
sal, and resolved accordingly. Mr Watt being then invited to
attend the meeting, the resolution was read to him by the chair-
man-whereupon he (Mr Watt) stated that his father had enter-
tained a strong desire to contribute to the only instituion which
Greenock possessed of a literary and scientific description, namely,
the public library, and that, following out his father's intention,
he purposed to give the sum of L. 2000,* "to be employed in the
erection of a building for the library, of which the statue should
form the principal ornament," leaving it open to others to add to
that sum if their views should extend farther. At the same time
be fixed by himself, but did not insist on that as part of the stipu-
lation. The committee appointed to carry the resolution into
effect most willingly left it to Mr Watt to decide on the plan. He
procured a plan accordingly. After some delay on fixing on the
site, the library was erected on the south-west side of Union Street,
The st`tue was brought from London, and under the eye of Sir
F. Chantrey himself, was placed in an alcove, prepared for it op-
posite to the principal entrance.
	The building is after a plan by Dr Blore. It is in what is called
the old English style of architecture, and when finished will pro-
bably have a fine imposing appearance. But the middle is the
only part yet executed. Two wings have yet to be built, the one
to contain a reading-room, and the other a house for the librarian.
No steps have yet been taken for completing the execution of the
plan. But we cannot believe that a public building, which will ul-
timately prove so great an ornament to the town, will be permitted
to remain long in its present unfinished condition.
	The statue is of white marble, and is regarded by competent
judges, not only as one of the best of Sir Francis Chantrey's pro-

  <FOOTNOTE>This handsome donation was afterwards raised to L. 3000.


