
748			AYRSHIRE.

blow, or serve as a cutting instrument. If we suppose it to have
been fixed to a handle in the way in which their stone implements
are attached by the natives of New Zealand to wooden bandles, it
would have the shape of the battle-axe.
	The Hill seems, on some occasions, to have been used as an en-
campment, as it retains the marks of trenches. The conjecture,
hazarded by the writer of the former Statistical Account, that it
was a Danish encampment, is highly improbable, as the roving
Danes seldom encamped so far in the interior, and, besides, "there
is no evidence that they ever had any settlement within the Frith
of Clyde." *
	The form of the Hill and its moat, truncated at the top, adapted
it admirably for the administration of justice. "It was formerly
the Court-Hill of the Barony of Torbolton; and the Hall formerly
built on this mount was the chief messuage of the barons, where
seisin was given of the same." +
	Across a small brook, and on the summit of an elevated piece
of ground to the south-east, is a place still termed "the Gallow-
Hill."
	About a century ago, the hill was rented by Mr John Hood,
the parish schoolmaster, and was the play-ground of his scholars;
in consequence of which it has acquired the name of "Hood's-
Hill."
	Fail.--A mile north from Torbolton, in the suppressed parish
of Barnweill, and at the western extremity of Fail Loch, encircled
by a few ash and elm trees, are the ruins of the monastery of Fail
or Failford, once a place of some note, and which still enjoys
murch celebrity from the mention made of the friars in the sarcas-
tic lines preserved by Ramsay in the Evergreen, and quoted by
Walter Scott in the AbboL. ++

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. iii. page 455.
            Privy Seal Register, quoted by Chalmers.

            "The Friars of Fail drank berry-brown ale,
             The best that ere was tasted,
            The monks of Melrose made gude kale,
             On Fridays, when they fasted."
          Another version of this stanza has been preserved.
			               "The Friars of Fail
             Got never owre hard eggs, or owre thin kale;
             For they made their eggs thin wi' butter,
             And their kale thick wi' bread;
             And the Friars of Fail they made gude kale
             On Fridays when they fasted,
             And they never wanted gear enough
             As long as their neighbours lasted."


