
                                 ANWOTH.                    383

in the landward portion of the parish may be regarded as almost
stationary since the period last mentioned, or for the last 80 years.
Indeed, in 1792, previously to the existence of Fleet Street, the
population was 492; so that it had actually diminished between
these two periods. In 1841, the population of 883 consisted of
402 males and 481 females.
				  IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--Of the 9023 acres of which the parish consists,
about one-fourth is arable and meadow, and the remaining three-
fourths woodlands or hill pasture. Leases generally vary in dura-
tion from fifteen to nineteen years. The rent of arable land about
L. 1 per acre; of pasture land, from 5s. to 1Os. The farm tene-
ments are, on the whole, very commodious and substantial build-
ings; and the most approved system of agriculture prevails. The
breed of black cattle are chiefly of the pure Galloway kind, with
a few of Highland and Irish descent. The sheep are mostly
of the black-faced breed, with a few Leicesters and Southdowns.
	Mines.--There is a lead mine on the estate of Rusco, which has
been in operation at intervals for about thirty years. No great quan-
tity of ore has been raised from it; and to most of the companies who
have successively undertaken to work it, it has not proved a profit-
able speculation. It is at present in the hands of a company from
Cumberland, and report speaks favourably of its produce. The
vein can be more or less distinctly traced across the whole parish.
Both copper and zinc ores have been detected in the mine, but in
small quantities. Lead has been found on the farm of Kirkbride,
the property of Mr Murray of Broughton, and has been partially
wrought, but with little success.
	Rental.--From the assessment for the property-tax, it appears
that the total rental of the parish is L.4019, exclusive of the land
and wood-land in the possession of the proprietors, which may
amount to about L.526, making the aggregate rental L.4545.
The total rental, according to the old Statistical Account, pub-
lisbed in 1794, was L.2200; so that the value of land in the pa-
rish has more than doubled within the last fifty years.
	Wages.--The annual wages of a good agricultural servant, un-
married, are between L.10 and L.12, including victuals; of a
good cot-man, with a house and garden, but exclusive of victuals,
between L.20 and L.24; and of a good female servant, between
L.5 and L.6 with victuals. The wages of an able labourer,
exclusive of victuals, average 1s. 6d. per day in summer, and


