
                              LARGO.                          443

plete set of new offices, was made to it in 1823, and another ad-
dition this summer, so that now there is none better in the county.
The glebe and garden make up 5 acres, worth L. 20. For many
years, L. 11 per annum has been paid to the minister in lieu of
foggage. The stipend, exclusive of L. 10 for communion ele-
ments, has been, since the augmentation for crop 1830, 136 bolls
of meal, and 136 barley, commuted at the fiar prices, and amount-
ing, for the last six years respectively, to L. 281, L. 228, L. 215,
L. 212, L. 219, and for crop 1836, to L. 292.
   There are two dissenting chapels, one belonging to the Relief,
and the other to the Baptist persuasion, bnth situated at Lower
Largo. Their ministers are paid by voluntary contribution. The
number of families connected with the Establishment is 350-with
Dissenters of all classes, 200; and there are not a few individuals
unconnected with any religious persuasion. Divine service at the
Establishment is generally well attended, and, there is reason to
think, would be much better attended, were it not that more seats
are given to tenants, or let out to others, than they or their fami-
lies can occupy, and thus such as would fill vacant seats cannot
obtain them,-an evil which here, and in many other places, calls
loudly for redress. The number of communicants on the roll is
760. The number present in summer is about 600; and in win-
ter, 500.
   There were Societies for religious and charitable purposes, but
it is found more expedient to have regular collections, several times
a-year. The average amount collected for the last three years has
been L. 30 per annum.
   Education.-There is one parochial school, the teacher of which
has the maximum salary, L. 34, 2s. 4d., more than the legal ac-
commodations, and fees amounting to L. 20. Of three other
schools, two have gratuitous salaries of L. 5 each from the heri-
tors; and the fees of each will amount to nearly L. 40 per annum.
The branches generally taught are, reading, writing, arithmetic,
mensuration, and occasionally Latin, book-keeping, and naviga-
tion. The expense, of course, varies, according to the branches
taught; the lowest being 4d., the medium 1s., and the highest
7s. a month. The people are alive to the benefits of educa-
tion; and there are few children of six years who have not been
sent to school; and few above fifteen who cannot read. And
though the distances from school are two and even three miles,
this does not prevent attendance. Additional schools are not re-


