
<APPENDIX>

xciv

every parish, but, in general, the returns are sufficiently numerous, to justify
calculations on safe data, (such as the rent of each), for the parishes from
which no return of stock has been made.  The value of the stock per head,
it is evident, must vary, according to the price of the different sorts in diffe-
rent countries.

<UNREADABLE>

   4. Agricultural Produce.-This is another most important object of in-
quiry, returns of which could not be expected from every individual parish.
-There are three modes of mating it.-1. By calculating the produce,
according to the quantity of land supposed to be occupied for different pur-
poses, whether arable, pastures, &c.-2. By multiplying the real rent in any
district, according to the known proportions between the real rent and the
produce, in any particular parish whence a return has been made.-Or,
3. By computing it according to the supposed consumption of the inhabi-
tants, deducting any articles imported.-Calculations of Agricultural pro-
duce are particularly essential, because they will prove how infinitely supe-
rior, in point of importance and extent, our Agricultural resources arc to
our commercial, a point hitherto little attended to, either in this country or
on the continent.-Hence the absurd attempt of France to ruin this king-
dom, by excluding its ships from the ports of Europe.-That our foreign
commerce is of great importance, cannot be questioned; but, at the same
time, it is proper to observe, that we draw as much as real profit from agricul-
ture in one year, as from commerce in five.

</UNREADABLE>

   5. Production of Manufactures and Commerce.-On this important
head it will be difficult to give any satisfactory information.-In many re-
spects, the accounts must necessarily be defective, and it is not easy to di-
stinguish those branches of commercial or manufacturing industry, which
are properly speaking dependent upon agriculture, from such as are purely
commercial.  The latter indeed ought, strictly speaking, to be confined to
articles, the raw materials of which are imported from other countries, or
which, when they are either manufactured here, or imported in a manu-
factured state, are again exported.-In this point of view, the productions
of manufactures and commerce are not at all to be compared, in point of
value and importance, to those of agriculture.

   6. Mines, Fisheries, and Kelp.-These sources of public wealth, being
more of a local than of a general nature, are on that account joined toge-
ther, and indeed will principally be taken notice of, when the general state
of the kingdom, in regard to these two important particulars, comes to be
considered.


