
     Statistical Account

North Britain at that period, thousands must have perished
for want of bread.  Happily, in consequence of some sup-
ply of meal from Government, and by importing corn and
meal from the Continent of Europe, none died for want of
the neccessary means of subsistence.  At that time potatoes
were often used in place of bread by many.  A family,
consisting of 9 persons, had nothing else to eat for a whole
week, and yet they looked pretty well.-There is plenty
of heath, furze, broom, turf, and peat.  Peats are the best
fuel.  A great many, besides the parishioners, are supplied
with peats from the mosses of Birnie.  Two hundred loads
of peats are requisite to keep a good fire in a room, and a-
nother in the kitchen, for a year.  They cannot be cast,
dried, and carried home, at the distance of 4 miles, for less
than 1 s. the load.-The people are industrious, temperate,
and cheerful, though poor.  Musie is their favourite diver-
sion.  Some of them can play on the bagpipe, and others
on the violin.  Ferocious manners have given place to ci-
vilized.  There has been no instance of suicide, or murder
during the last 26 years.  Neither has any one been ba-
nished, or suffered capital punishment.  They speak Eng-
lish, in the Scotch dialect.  It is remarkable in this, as well
as in other parishes of this county, that when the conso-
nants r and s meet, as in the words horse, curse, &c. the let-
ter r is quiescent, and the common people pronounce these
words as if they were written hoss, cuss*.

   Antiquities and Natural Curiosities.-A stone baptistery,
and an old bell, made of a mixture of silver and copper, of

<FOOTNOTE>

*As to the price of grain, and other provisions, for 10 years preceding
1791, the price of a boll of wheat, on an average, is L. 1; of barley, 16 s.;
of oats and oat-meal, 14 s. 6 d.; of pease and barley meal, 13 s. 4 d.; of
the best beef, mutton, veal, pork, and salmon, 3 d. the pound; of a hen,
7 d.; of a chicken, 3 d.; of a pigeon, 1 d.; of a dozen of haddocks, 6 d.


