
106                          SHETLAND.

miles due west, are so associated with hornblende slate, and inti-
mately combined with the particles of hornblende, that Dr Hib-
bert has given to the rock the name of hornblendic gneiss. "In
most specimens," says he, "which we examine, the hornbleade is
either openly manifested, or is in such an intimate state of union,
with the felspar, as to impart to this ingredient of the rock a green-
ish tinge." The other ingredients of quartz, felspar, and mica are,
as in all other varieties of gneiss, described to be found in very
different proportions.
   The gneiss, at the Nien or Ness of Brindister, is traversed with
a vein of granite of very considerable size, being not less than 45
feet broad, and running from south-west by south to north-east by
north. At Vementry, the veins of granite are particularly tortu-
ous, and ramify in the most remarkable manner.
   Besides granite, veins of quartz, compact felspar, felspar-por-
phyry, greenstone, or sienitic greenstone, are often seen. Thin
interstrata, of very pure limestone, are to be seen at Braganess,
West Burrafirth, and other places. The granitic veins which tra-
verse them, are often diverted from their course in the most re-
markable manner, showing great signs of distortion.
   The presence of beds of hornblende slate, or of intermixed par-
ticles of hornblende, has a strong tendency to disturb the strata
among which they appear. On this account, any general state-
ment of the most prevalent line of direction would be impossible,
The direction, which may possibly be the most prevalent, has been
found to be from south-west by south to north-east by north. The
dip was mostly to the west, at angles from 50&deg; to 70&deg;
   The relations of the strata are much concealed by the sea. At
Vementry and Braganess, the line of direction stretches from the
bluish-grey quartz rock, near Aithsness, to the granite of Vemen-
try; consequently the strata are opposed to the bounding lines of
each of these masses, at various angles., More westerly, they only
meet, under similar circumstances, the quartz rocks of this dis-
trict. The invasions which take place, in the form of dikes or
veins, from the contiguous mountains of granite, both in the south
end of the Island of Meikle Roe and in the west end of Vemen-
try, are very large, and are particularly seen near the junction of
the gneiss and granite in the neighbourhood of the dwelling-house
in Vementry.
   I have frequently found, on the shore, pieces of pumice stone,
which, from its small specific gravity. readily floats on the water
                                  4

