
                                 FODDERTY.                      259

      four years.  His son, Mr Donald M'Kenzie, had been previously
      appointed his assistant and successor, on whose death Mr Charles
      Bayne was inducted in 1826, and after him the present incumbent
      in 1833.
         Education.-There are five schools in the parish.  1. The
      parochial school, which has the maximum salary attached to it,
      exclusive of a dwelling-house,and L.2, 2s.in lieu of a garden.  The
      branches taught are, English reading, grammar,writing, arithmetic,
      book-keeping, geography, Latin, and Greek.  The average attend-
      ance is 63, and the annual amount of school fees paid may be about
      L. 16.  2. The school at Tollie, in the Brahan district, in connexion
      with the Inverness Education Society.  The attendance is 70.
      Both Gaelic and English are taught, together with writing and
      arithmetic.  3. The Gaelic school, supported by that excel-
      lent institution, the Gaelic School Society of Edinburgh, in which,
      old and young are taught to read the sacred Scriptures in their own
      language, and which is attended during winter by about 60.
      4. The school at Maryburgb, on the scheme of the General
      Assembly's Education Committee.  The average attendance is 120.
      And, lastly, a school on the teacher's own adventure, in the heights
      of Auchterneed ; at which the attendance is 84.
         Poor.-There are 96 on the poor's roll, who receive aid annually,
      besides 20 others, who are assisted occasionally.  The funds are,
      1. The collections at church, averaging during the last five years
      L.30, 7s. 1d. Sterling, from which, however, the fees of session-
      clerk, precentor, beadle, and catechist are to be deducted.  2.
      A mortification in perpetuo, by George Earl of Cromartie of 12
      bolls of barley per annum, bearing date 18th September 1686,
      and restricted " for the help, sustenance, and entertainment of
      the poor and indigent living on the lands of Park, Ardvall, Kinet-
      tas, Ulladale, Castle Leod, Auchterneed, Inchreundie, Glen-
      skyth, Garbet, and Bay of Dingwall, Strathpeffer, Inchrory,
      Dochnaclear, Fodderty, Balmulich, Milnain, but with preference
      still to decayed tenants, and their wives when widows."  3. A
      legacy of L. 80, left by Mrs Morrison, daughter of Mr Angus
      Morrison, the last Episcopal minister of Coutin, who was ejected
      for non-conformity, and resided afterwards in this parish till the
      time of his death.  By additions made to it, the legacy was in-
      creased to upwards of L. 200, and invested in the property of Hil-
      ton at 5 per cent. per annum; but the interest has not been avail-
      able for the last few years.
         August 1838.


