
			COYLTON.                            651

little lake called Lochend, which covers from two to three acres,
and is about 14 feet at its greatest depth. Loch Martnaham
is the haunt of wild-duck, geese, widgeon, teal, and other water-
fowl, and abounds in pike, perch, and eel. These are likewise
found in some of the other lochs mentioned.
	Rivers.--The rivers are the Coyl or Kill, as it is usually called,
and the Ayr. The former rises in the upper end of the parish,
and after a winding course of nearly ten miles, empties itself into
the Ayr.* The Ayr bounds Coylton for nearly four miles on the
north. The banks and holms of these rivers possess great natural
beauty, which, in most parts, especially on the Sundrum, Gad-
girth, and Auchencruive estates, is rendered enchanting by the
richness of the wooding. There is a cascade on the Kill, imme-
diately under the beautiful ridge on which Sundrum Castle stands.
The fall is about 15 feet, and the breadth of the river at the place
from 25 to 30 feet. When the stream is swollen by the floods,
the roar of this little cataract adds much to the charm of its syl-
van banks.
	The Ayr and Coyl are the habitats of a yellow trout. At a
former period, pike are said to have frequented the Ayr, but must
have long since deserted it. Salmon at one time were caught in
abundance. But since the erection of a mill-dam near the town of
Ayr, and from other causes, few are now taken. The complaint
often expressed by anglers of other streams, once noted for the
excellence of the sport they afforded, has of late years been
made of both these rivers.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--In some useful minerals, Coylton
may be said to be rich. It contains coal, limestone, plumbago,
ironstone, clay-slate, basalt, various kinds and colours of free-
stone, fire-clay, marl, &c.
	The geological character of the stratifications is of that order
which marks the coal formation. The coal strata are of consi-
derable extent, and are, or have been, wrought on the Sundrum,
Gadgirth, Knockshoggle, Craighall, Duchray, and Crosshill
estates. The chief coal-field, so far as yet explored, consits of
three strata. The first a layer 3 feet thick; about 15 fathoms below
this, a stratum 11 feet in depth; and about 6 fathoms farther down,
a 5 feet coal. The dip is to the north-east. The incumbent

<FOOTNOTE>The scene of one of Burns' lyrics, "The Soldier's Return," is laid on the Coyl
at Millmannoch. And the "Craigs of Kyle" is the scene of a similar production,
by Miss J. Glover.


