

80                        ROXBURGSHIRE.

  In has been found impracticable to ascertain the average gross
amount and value of raw produce yearly raised in the parish.
  Manfactures.-There are engaged in manufactures about 240
male adults resident in this parish, of whom five are master.
There are five mills employed in spinning wool in the parish.  Of
the five Firms to which they belong, three have their counting-
rooms, warehouses, and considerable branches of their business,
such as are not immediately connected with mill-machinery, in the
neighbouring town of Hawick. Exclusive of these, there are about
500 men, women, and children, employed in manufactories in the
parish.
   Wool manufactures.-The manufactories of the parish are of
various descriptions of goods made from wool,-such as lambs'
wool yarn and hosiery, blankets, plaidings, flannels, tartan shawls,
and other goods of a similar nature.  The whole mills contain
fifty teazing, scribbling, and carding engines, (most of the two
latter being what are called double engines,) which prepare as much
wool as keeps in motion 9578 spindles in slaubing, spinning, and
doubling yarn.  The quantity of wool consumed weekly, as nearly
as can be estimated, is upon an average, about 11,500 Ib, and gives
emloyment to about 230 slaubers, spinners, &c.-men and lads,
who have the care of machinery,-and women, who supply wool to the
carding and scribbling engines,-and children, who are employed
by the former as piecdrs,-240 stocking-makers, 75 weavers, and
about 40 people in milling, scouring, dyeing, and finishing goods.
   Those employed in the mils generally work from six o'clock in
the morning till seven o'clock in the evening,-two hours being al-
lowed for meals.  Stocking-makers, weavers, &c. begin the day at
six in the morning, and cease working at eight o'clock in the even-
ing; but he work-hours of the latter are not regular.
   It may be noticed, that some of the manufactures have of late
worked part of their machinery night and day, i,e. from one
o'clock Monday morning till eleven o'clock Saturday night. Where
this is done, tow sets of work-people are employed, and each set
takes the night-work every alternate weck.
   Very few children are employed before nine years of age.  The
work they are put to is of a very light description; and, from the
quantity of vegetable oil used in preparing the wool, and the fac-
tories being well-aired, they are generally very healty and thriv-
ing.  They have all been taught to read previously to their enter-
ing a factory, and most of them attend on or other of the Sunday
                               3


