
		  APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.   		      179

similar increase has been observed in several other parts of the
south of Scotland, and north of England.
	All the stone-chats (Saxicolae) are to found. The most un-
common is S. rubicola, of which a few pairs may be met with
about waste brushwood, or whin-covers, during the whole year.
The red-start (Phaennicura ruticilla), is an occasional summer vi-
sitant, preferring those parts of the country which abound most in
copsewood.
	Of the warblers, the three willow-wrens are found. The wood-
wren (Silvia sibilatrix) is chiefly sonfined to the woods on Dryfe.
Lesser pettychaps (S. hippolais) very rare. Greater pettychaps
(S. hortensis) abundant, and, though selwom observed, is often
betrayed by its melody. The black-cap (S. atricapilla) is oc-
casionally seen; and the sedge-warbler (Salicaria phragmites) in
marshes where there is a little cover. The golden-crested-wren
(Regulus cristatus) breeds here in small numbers; but during
winter, when the migratory flocks have arived, is very abundant.
	Of the Titmice, five species are abundant; but the marsh-
tit (Parus palustris), and cole-tit (P. ater), and long-tailed-tit
(P. caudatus), are found chiefly in winter. A few pairs of the
latter breed about Jardine-Hall; but the greater part seek the
more extensive woods about Raehills, and return during winter to
the lower lands.
	The gray wagtail (Motacilla boarula) is found here for a weeks
in spring and autumn, when passing to and from their breeding-places
among the hills. The yellow wagtail (M. flava) very common on
the banks of the Annan, and is particularly noticed here as being
a bird extremely local in its distribution.
	The common meadow and tree pipits are abundant.
	The common bunting (Emberiza miliaria) is migratory, and is met
with in autumn in small flocks, and breeds in the lover pasture-lands.
It also is a bird of local distribution. The snow-bunting (Plectro-
phanes nevalis) appears in the higher grounds in immense flocks
during winter, and in severe weather visits the edges of the Annan,
feeding among the sand or gravel.
	The mountain finch (Fringilla montifringilla)is a winter visitant
in large flocks, delighting ro feed on beech-mast.
	The siskin (Carduelis spinus) appears at uncertain intervals in
very large flocks.
	The common linnet (Linaria vulgaris) abundant. Of the lesser
red-pole (L. cannabina) a few pairs breed, but large flocks arrive


