
720                         FIFESHIRE.

ed glen is highly picturesque, and although on a smaller scale
bears much resemblance, in its natural features, to the celebrat-
ed pass of Glen Farg at the north-west extremity of Fifeshire.
And while Dura Den, as this ravine is called, is the chief attrac-
tion to the lover of landscape, the rest of the parish, from the un-
dulating character of the ground, and the abundance of timber,
has altogether a richer appearance than most parts of the country,
and contrasts favourably with the bare though highly cultivated
districts which surround it.
   Extent and Boundaries.-Kemback is bounded on the east, by
a line of two miles in length, running nearly due north and south,
which divides it from the parish of St Andrews. Its northern
boundary is the river Eden, separating it from Leuchars and Dair-
sie; it joins Cupar on the west, and Ceres on the south. Its
greatest length, which is from north-east to south-west, is about
three miles, and it is at few places more than a mile and a-half in
breadth. It is formed by a ridge of hills called Nydie or Kem-
back hills, running through it from east to west, sloping gently to-
wards the south, and somewhat abruptly to the north. The highest
point of elevation is Clatto hill, which is 548 feet above the level
of the sea. Nearly the whole of this range of eminences, not
long ago a barren heath, is now covered by thriving plantations.
   Climate.-From the sheltered position, and the increase of
wood, the climate is milder than most of the surrounding country:
and many of the inhabitants have attained to a very advancd age.
The beneficial effect of cultivation and drainage on climate and
health is shown by the fact, that some of the older inhabitants who
have resided in the parish all their lives, recollect that, about fifty
or sixty years ago, ague was a very prevalent disorder every
spring; whereas this complaint is now scarcely known.
   Soil.-The parish contains almost every variety of soil, as bar-
ren black sand, peat, gravel, black and brown loam, and rich
strong clay of great fertility. Much has been done of late years
in  draining the cold wet, soil, with manifest advantage; but on
the greater part of the north side of the parish, this is unnecessary,
the immediate subsoil being dry loose gravel.
   Fishing.-The Eden affords tolerably good trout-fishing in
spring and autumn, and there is a right of salmon fishing attached to
the lands ot Kemback, which, however, is now quite unproductive.
   Geology.-The rocks consist of sandstone, ironstone, shale, and
trap. The sandstone is of two kinds, and belongs to two great de-
                           3

