
     of Methven.

   Woods.-The wood of Methven is the only natural one,
of any extent, in the parish.  It covers 172 Scotch a-
cres, and is of considerable value to the proprietor, Lord
Methven.  It is cut in about 18 divisions, at the age of 25
years.  It consists of oaks, many of which have been lately
allowed to stand for timber, birch, etc. The hazel has
been let at the rent of 12 L. to a coal company, for above 20
years.  The present wood lies a little eastwood of the Castle,
to which it is a great ornament; but anciently it extended 
a considerable distance to the south and west, as is evident
from some old oaks still remaining in cultivated fields ; and
from an old farm which retains the name of Westwood or
Woodhead.  There are likewise some spots of natural wood,
on the banks of the Almond.

   Agriculture and Produce. etc.*.-Within these 20 years,
the improvements in agriculture have been very great in this
parish, as well as in other places; and, of consequence, the
rents are much increased.  This is owing to the use of lime,
which is become very general, and is got at the port of
Perth, either from Lord Elgin's lime works, on the Frith

<FOOTNOTE>

*Thirty years ago, almost the whole of this parish was pos-
sessed in Runrig ; the tenants of 3, 4, 5, or 6 ploughgates,
living in one Town, as it was called, and occupying a large
tract of ground in that manner.  About one third of the land,
next to the houses, was called Infield, or Crost land, and was
cropped alternately with oats and barley, the whole dung be-
ing laid on with the barley.  The remainder of the farm was
called Outfield; of which one third, or more, was in oats, and
the rest in pasture.  The cattle were folded in summer, on that
part of the outfield, which was to be broken up the ensuing
season, after which 3 crops of oats were taken ; and sometimes,
if the ground did not seem to be quite exhausted, a fourth ;
after which it was left out for pasture, until it had so far reco-
vered, as to be able again to undergo the same operation.


