
			GLASGOW.                            183

rator, once; the Scottish Guardian, twice; the Angur, twice; and
the Weekly Reporter, once; so that in Glasgow there are twenty
newspapers published weekly. It would be invidious to state the
circulation of aech paper, even if it could be accurately obtained.
It is, however, known, that the circulation of the Hearld of each
publishing day for some years past has exceeded 1800, and that
during the quarter from the 1st of March to the 1st day of June 1834,
its advertisements amounted to 3291.
	Libraries, &c.--The first circulating library in the west of Scot-
land was established in Glasgow in 1753, by Mr John Smith Se-
nior, who lent out books at the rate of one-halfpenny per volume.
There are now many circulating as well as public and private li-
braries in Glasgow. Of the public libraries, exclusively of those
belonging to the University, to Anderson's University, and to other
literary bodies, the more valuable are Stirling's which was institut-
ed in 1791, the Glasgow in 1804, and the Robertsonian in 1814.
	Of late years a number of books societies have been established
in Glasgow. They are conducted on a plan similar to that of cir-
culating libraries, with this difference, that the books belong to the
readers themselves, who are chiefly of the working-classes. The
periodical book publishing trade, which, till about the year 1796,
was scarely known in Scotland, is carried nn in Glasgow to an
extent surpassing that of any other town in this part of the king
dom. By a late Parliamentary report, it appeared that in Scot-
land there were 414 book-hawkers, technically termed "canvas-
sers" and "delivers," who, in seven years, collected L. 44160
per annum in sixpenses ans shillings; and five-sixteenths of the
whole belonged to Glasgow.
	The Maitland Club, which was established in this city a few
years ago, is similar to the Bannatyne Club of Edinburgh, or the
Roxburgh Club of London, by the reprinting of valuable and scarce
old books for pravate use, or printing for the first time curious and
rare manuscripts illustrative of the history, literature, or antiqui-
ties of Scotland. The club takes its name from Sir Richard
Maitland of Lethington, an Officer of State during the minority of
James VI.; and who like Bannatyne, did much service to Scottish
literature, by compiling nearly all the poetry of the nation then in
existence.
	During the last thirty years several magazines and other periodical
works have been published here, but none of them have succeeded.
The Church of Scotland Magazines bids fair for permanency.
	Poor.--The proper management of the poor is very where


