
                            PEEBLES.                              3

formerly, a heavy rain required some days to run off; and the river
being thus kept full, the fish could easily ascend.
  Minerals.--Though the upper part of the country abounds in
minerals, the parish of Peebles can boast of very few.  Sandstone
is unknown, and there has been no appearance of coal.  A quarry
of transition limestone, indeed, was opened many years ago about
two miles from Peebles, on the Edinburgh road; but the lime was of
so coarse a quality, and coals were so expensive, that the working
of it was soon abandoned, and it has never since been resumed.
Greywacke abounds in all the hills; and as it is frequently of a
fine texture when dressed, the houses built of it have a very hand-
some appearance.  The strata of the low grounds are generally
covered with gravel and sand.

                       II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  There is reason to believe that Peebles contained a considerable
number of inhabitants at a very earlv period.  The fertile valleys
on both sides of the Tweed would early invite settlers, and its se-
cluded situation would afford them protection against hostile inva-
sion.  The wild mountains and thick forest of Ettrick protected
the inhabitants against inroads from the south and east, and an
equal barrier was opposed against invasion from the Lothians.  It
was only when the woods began to be cleared that the inhabitants
at length took part in the disputed successions to the throne, or
became exposed to the hostile inroads of the English.
  Historical Notices.--The earliest notices of Peebles give intima-
tion of some advancement in agriculture and civilization.  The
Inquisitio of David Earl of Cumberland, afterwards king David I.
in 1116, found that there had belonged (it does not state how long)
to the See of Glasgow, "una carrucata (plougate) terrae et ec-
clesia;" * and shortly after, we find mention made of mill and brewery.
It is seldom that a poor or thinly inhabited district can support ex-
tensive religious establishments; Peebles must therefore have at-
tained to considerable eminence.  Accordingly, we find Ingelram
Newbigging, Rector of Peebles, and Archdeacon of Glasgow, after
having been iriade Chancellor of the kingdom by King David in
1151, was appointed Bishop of Glasgow in 1164.  When Rector
of Peebles, lie vigorously defended the independence of the Scot-
tish church against the claim of superiority set up by Roger, Arch-
bishop of York, in a provincial council held it Norham, and after-
wards at Rome, where he recommended himself so much to the

               <FOOTNOTE>Gibson's Glasgow, p. 263


