
     of Little Dunkeld.

elm, and other hard timber trees is at least 1 s. 2 d. per cubic
foot, and of Scotch fir, 6 d.

   Animals, Horses, Cattle, Sheep.-A Species of serpent abounds
near the hermitage and little Dunkeld which is found no
where else in the parish.-It grows to the length of 20 inches;
is of a yellowish colour, and speckled all over with brown spots,
which give it the appearance of a beautiful marble.  Its bite is
not thought poisonous.  This reptile is never seen in elevated
situations, but always in grounds of a warm exposure.  The
black snake worm, from 8 to 10 inches in length, a noxious
animal, is sometimes met with, but very seldom, in the same
tract of ground*.
   Three lochs in the hills of Strathbran afford abundance of
excellent trout, as firm and red as salmon, and of a much bet-
ter relish.  In the largest of these pieces of water (loch Skiach)
trout are sometimes caught that weigh about 12 lb. avoirdu-
pois.  The trout in the Bran are small, but a great many of
them fine cheer.
   The rising extensive plantations already mentioned, have at-
tracted some animal tribes that were utter strangers to the pa-
rish before.-For more than seven years past, black game,

     VOL. VI. Z z

<FOOTNOTE>

*A quadruped found in the moors at the eastern extremity of the parish is
entitled to notice, as a remarkable variety of the lizard tribe.  It is about 9
inches long; the body or trunk is of an unusual length in proportion to the tail,
which does not taper gradually from the hind feet as in other lizards, but be-
comes suddenly small like that of a mouse.  The back is full of small protu-
berances, and guarded with a skin almost as hard as a sea shell.  The eyes large,
clear and circular, like those of an ordinary trout; the jaws more than an inch
in length, and the teeth so strong as to be heard making a ringing noise upon
the iron point of a pole, at the distance of more than ten feet.  It is believed
in that part of the country, that about 50 years ago, the bite of this animal
proved fatal to a child two years old.  It is never seen but upon very dry
ground.  When irritated, it expresses its rage by the reddening and glistening
of its eyes.


