

	880				FIFESHIRE.
               
			      IV.-INDUSTRY.
                                                                                         ag
     	   Aqriculture.-The following tabular view of the agriculture of
	the parish was drawn up chiefly in consequence of hearing certain
	remarks made by Earl Fitzwilliam on the Statistical Reports of
	Agriculture, including those of the new work of the Church of
	Scotland, at the meeting of the British Association held in Edin-
	burgh in 1834.  These are now recorded in the printed transac-
	tions for that year, p. 693, and are, in substance, as follows:-
	" The expediency of furnishing more minute details with respect
	to the agricultural part of statistical reports, was suggested in these
	remarks.  The statdments ought to show not only the total amount
	of land in cultivation, but also the quantities allotted at the time
	of the inquiry to the various kinds of produce, the number and
	value of agricultural implements, the number of draught and other
	cattle, and similar details. Lord Fitzwilliam stated, that he had
	succeeded in obtaining such returns for some parishes in his own
	neighbourbood, and observed, that accurate and minutely detailed
	information for only a small number of places would furnish more
	safe grounds for correct inferences than could be obtained from a
	more widely extended, but less precise inquiry."
     	   The information contained in the first four tables may be de-
	pended on, as possessing all attainable accuracy, having been pro-
	cured from written returns, made by the several proprietors or te-
	nants of land, in answer to queries submitted to them in schedules,
	containing a variety of columns for the purpose.  The information
	in the other tables was also obtained from the best sources. Ex-
	cept when otherwise noted, they all refer to the year 1838, soon
	after which, the author expected his History of Dunfermline to be
	completed, but in this, from other duties, be was disappointed.
	This he regrets, as some sligbt changes may have taken place since
	that period, especially as to the number of farming implements.*
  
	<TABLE>
	   	    AGRICULTURAL STATISTICAL TABLE FOR 1838.
     	
		1.Number of Acres Arable and not Arable, &c.
                
					    Scots                    Imperial.
                   			    Acres.	Acres.   Roods. Poles, Falls.
	Number of acres arable...........   10,618	13,391	   1	  0	0
	................not arable,......    2,966	3,740	   2	 26	6
	................under wood,......      900	1,135 	   0	 10    23
	................under water,.....      180	  227	   0	  2     1 1/4


        <FOOTNOTE>
     		The substance of these tables and of the previous article oil population was read
	at an extra meeting ofthe statistical section ofthe British Association at Glasgow, in
	September 1840, of which the chairman, in name of the meeting, was pleased to ex-
	press his approbation.


