
                           PETERHEAD.                            359

The late James Ferguson, Esq. of Pitfour, planted some small
clumps and corners on the estates of Balmoor and Richmond;
these have made considerable progress, and continue in a healthy
state.  The Governors of the Merchant Maiden Hospital planted
a small belt around a piece of ground about half a mile from Pe-
terhead, intended to be a public garden.  This belt continued to
thrive for some years, and the trees made rapid progress; but for
two or three years in succession, owing to north-easterly storms,
the leaves were destroyed about the month of May; and, in con-
sequence, a considerable number of the trees died.  The blanks,
however, have been filled up with young plants, which are thriving.
   George Arbuthnot, Esq. of Invernettie, has planted about seven
and a half acres.  The plants which he used were, ash, elm, plane,
Dutch alder, birch, lime, horse-chestnut, and mountain-ash; and
he mentions that the alder, ash, plane, and elm have succeeded
best.  He also tried some of the fir tribes, which did not succeed
at first; but he now finds that the white American spruce and sil-
ver firs are making strong and healthy shoots.
   At some distance from the sea, and where the elevation above
it is greater, about forty acres have been planted with Scotch fir,
larch, and spruce, by the Governors of the Merchant Maiden Hos-
pital,  Whether the wood may come to be of value remains to be
seen.  On the east coast, the young trees are often destroyed by
the north-easterly storms, from which they require to be sheltered,
by being planted very thick, especially on the side exposed to the
sea.  Early pruning seems very detrimental, if not performed spar-
ingly.
   Rent.-The rent of the arable land within the parish may be
stated at from 5s. to L.6 per acre, according to the quality and
situation.
   Live-Stock.-The cattle raised are chiefly of the polled Buchan
breed.  Of late the Teeswater short horns have been partially in-
troduced, and crossed with the native breed.  Differences of opi-
nion are entertained regarding the Teeswater cattle and the cross
breeds from them,-some being of opinion that the Teeswater
come much sooner to maturity at not much more expense for rear-
ing, and yield equally good milk and beef; while others think that
the native breed is more easily reared, yielding better milk and
flesh, and, with equal attention, would come to the same weight,
although not in the same time.  Both breeds are allowed to be ex-
cellent of their kind, and farther experience can alone determine


