
164                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

of Dissenters in the parish: but of these some members attend the
parish church, and others the chapel, or the meeting-house.
	Education.--There is one parochial school, the master of which
has the maximum salary, the legal accommodation, and the school
fees, which may amount to L.8 per annum. *  There are also four
unendowed schools. A few persons in the parish cannot write:
but all can read more or less perfectly. No additional schools
are required.
	Savings Bank.--A savings bank was established in June 1822,
in which the deposits have been gradually increasing. The an-
nual deposits alotnt to about L.50; and the sums annually with-
drawn to about L.20.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of persons receiving
regular parochial aid is 13, and the average sum allotted to each
is L.2, 11s. 6d, per annum. The present expenditure is much
greater than usual, as the poor's fund has three fatuous persons
to support, at an expense of L.20, 16s. 8d. per annum. The
yearly amount of collections for the poor is L.28; the annual in-
terest of mortifications, L.4, 12s.; interest of money, L.3, 7s. 6d.;
which, with occasional donations from heritors and other private
individuals, may amount to L.39, 4s. 6d. per annum.
	Kinloch's Fund.-In 1812, the sum of L.2700 was bequeath-
ed by William Kinloch, Esq. of Calcutta, to be lodged in the
funds, and the annual interest to be divided quarterly among the
native poor of the parish of Arbuthnott, at the discretion of the
kirk-session, who are empowered, by the deed of bequest, to receive
the claims of the several applicants, and aid them as they shall see
cause. The number of claimants at present on the roll is 77, of
whom 25 are parochial, but do not receive aid from the proper
parish fund for the maintenance of the poor; and 52 are ex-pa-
rochial. As the annual interest of the money in the funds is L.120,
the average amount of aid to every applicant is L.1, 11s., 2d. per
annum.
	Inns.--There are 5 inns or alehouses; and that number might
be reduced with benefit to the morals of the people.
        FueL.--The fuel used is chiefly coal, which is commonly sold at
1s. 1d., or 1s. 2d. per barrel at Gourdon, in the parish of Bervie,
which is the nearest sea-port. Turf is used in part by the lower
classes.
	April 1838.

<FOOTNOTE>To a poor labourer with a numerous family the fees are reduced, by charging
him for one scholar less than the number sent to school.


