
			   PARISH OF PETTINAIN.

                PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                      THE REV. JOHN VARY, MINISTER. *


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--The derivation of the name of this parish is, in a great
measure, matter of conjecture. The spelling in the more ancient
charters is Pedynane or Petynane, while in the modern records it
is generally Pittinine or Pettinain. Much stress, however, is not
to be placed on the mode of spelling, as on the communion cups,
both bearing date 1696, it is found differently spelt. The name,
says Chalmers in his Caledonia, whatever be its true form, may
be derived from the British Peithyman, signifying a clear plat or
space, or from the British Ped-y-nant, signifying the lower end of
a ravine through which a brook flows. The former of these de-
rivations appears the more probable, as there is a considerable ex-
tent of nearly level land, of excellent quality, stretching to the
north of the village of the same name, which was very probably
cleared while the adjoining ground was covered with wood ; and
this supposition is strengthened by a circumstance, likewise mention-
ed by Chalmers, that David I. granted to Nicolas, his clerk, a ca-
rucate of land, in the forest of Pedynane, with the usual right of
common of pasture.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The figure of the parish is rather ir-
regular, but may be more properly described as rectangular than
in any other way being nearly 3 miles in length, and 21 in breadth.
It is bounded on the south, by Covington; on the west, by Car-
michael; on the north-west, by a small portion of Lanark; on the
north, by Carstairs and Carnwath; and on the east, by Libber-
ton. From the four last mentioned parishes, it is separated by the
river Clyde. Adjoining the river, there is a considerable tract of
haugh or holm land, so very level that frequently in winter, after
heavy rains in the south, and sometimes even in summer, it is co-

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. George Dickson, late incumbent of this parish, now mi-
nister of Kilrenny.


