
1008			   ABERDEENSHIRE.

under the pastoral superintendence of a talented priest, whose re-
sidence is at Strichen; and there may be a few others who wor-
ship their Maker, according to the dictates of their own con.
sciences, without belonging to any partictlar denomination of
Christians.
	The number of communicants belonging to the Established
Church this year amounted to 1264. The Earl of Fife is
patron of the church and parish; and it is somewhat singular,
that, between Mr Andrew Kerr, who was ordained and inducted
to the charge in 1731, 111 years ago, and the present incumbent,
there has been only one minister, Mr William Stuart, who was
translated from Auchterless, and, after serving the cure here forty-
six years, died in November 1820.
	Baptisms.--The ordinance of baptism was, at one time, gene-
rally administered " in presence of the haill congregation," as di-
rected by the Act of Assembly 7th February 1645; but as parents
now, for the most part, prefer its celebration at their own houses,
their wishes are complied with. The practice may be liable to
objections, and, as being not in strict conformity with the rules of
the Church, is disapproved of by many of the clergy; but it has
its advantages, inasmuch as it affords frequent opportunities to the
pastor of direct intercourse with all classes of his flock,--takes, in
some measure, the place of visitation of families,--is gratifying to
the mother's feelings,--and is fitted, according to peculiar circum-
stances, to make a stronger impression on the heart and conscience
of the father.
	Education.--Besides the parochial school, there are four other
schonls conducted by in male teacher; but of these none are en-
dowed or supported in any way but by school fees. In the paro-
chial school are taught, and with great success, Greek, Latin, ma-
thematics, arithmetic, geography, English reading, and grammar.
The pupils are numerous, generally above 100. During last sum-
mer, the number on the roll amounted to 130. The master, who
is a licentiate of the church, has, for some years, employed a well
qualified assistant, and has not failed to introduce the so much ap-
proved of intellectual and monitorial systems, with several other
judicious plans well fifted to promote the improvement of the
young. The school is regularly visited ever year by a committee
of Presbytery, who make out a report, and transmit it to the Ge-
neral Assembly. In a private school in the town, the same course
is pursued as at the parochial scbool, and the teacher having re-


