
294                         AYRSHIRE.

accuracy till the year 1780, when the late minister entered on
the charge of the parish. Since that time they have been kept
with great regularity.
	Antiquities.--The antiquities of Dunlop are not numerous. A
few years ago, the ruins of a chapel, dedicated to the Virgin Mary,
were removed. They stood at a place called Chapelhouse, about
half a mile from the village. Whether this was the parish church
before the Reformation, as is conjectured in the former Statisti-
cal Account, or a chapel distinct from it, as stated in Chalmers'
Caledonia, is now uncertain. In a field in the neighbourhood, is
a large detached stone, round which, if tradition is to be believed,
it was customary for persons attending at the chapel to perform
part of their devotions. It is called the "Thugartstane," sup-
posed to be a corruption of "the grit stane."
	Dunlop House is another relic of former times, which has now
disappeared. It was taken down about three years ago, to make
way for the splendid new mansion which its proprietor is now
erecting. It is thus described in Pont's Cunninghame Topogra-
phized. "Dunlopp, ane ancient stronghouse, fortified vith a deipe
foussie of watter, and planted with goodly orebards.--It belongs
to James Dunloppe of that same, and chieffe of his name." It is
uncertain when the original square tower, part of which remained
till the whole building was removed, was erected. One of the
more modern additions bore the date of 1599.
	Aiket Castle, about a mile south from the church, is now the
oldest building in the parish. The date of its erection is not ex-
actly known; but as a considerable branch of the family of Cun-
ninghame possessed the property of which it was the mansion, for
some centuries preceding 1700, about which time it passed into
other hands, we may assign to it a very respectable antiquity. It
consisted originally of a square tower, vaulted on the ground
floor, and four or five storeys high. To this had been added at a
later date some lower buildings. The appearance of the whole
has been very much altered, by reducing the tower to the level of
the annexed buildings. It is still inhabited.
	The only building that has any claim to antiquity, is a
small vaulted chamber in the churchyard, in which Hans Hamil-
ton, the minister of Dunlop, already mentioned, and his wife, are
buried. There is a very accurate description of it given in the
former Statistical Account of the parish.
	Modern Buildings.--Dunlop House is the only modern building
                                    4


