
                  MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                           729

of fine-grained red sandstone, very nearly horizontal. I could no-
where observe the junction of these beds with the greywacke beds.
But, from the difference of the position, it is evident that the two
are unconformable. Hence I conclude that the Strath consists of
beds of new red sandstone.
     "Between the greywacke rocks and the new red sandstone, the
coal-beds are usually interposed. In Strathearn, these beds are
either wanting, or buried so deep under the new red sandstone as
to be unavailable.
     "Dikes of trap-rock traverse the low country in various places.
There is one of greenstone at Monzie, of which materials for
mending the roads are taken. The dike at Concraig crosses the
road between Muthil and Crieff. It is a kind of greenstone, and
is said to have been traced for thirty miles.
     "Many boulders of granite may be seen upon the greywacke
hills, and in the low country. They are all water-worn, and must
have been brought from the north-west from a distance of not less
than fifty or sixty miles. The largest of these boulders lies upon
the south-west shoulder of the Cnock (of Crieff), and is called the
"Cradle stone." It is a mass of sienitic granite, nearly spherical,
and about 9 1/4 feet in diameter. It wehghs about 30 tons. It has
been split in two by lightning, and the greater fragment has made
nearly a revolution down the hill.
     "Few countries are less rich in minerals than the parish of
Monivaird. Except the rocks just described, and the alluvial soil
of which the carses are composed, we saw no mineral of any im-
portance whatever."
     In connection with this subject, although not strictly within the
limits assigned to this Account, it may be mentioned, that a no-
tion very generally prevails in Strathearn, that the appearances on
the surface afford, in several places, strong indications of the pre-
sence of coal, and repeated attempts at discovery have, at different -
periods, been made to the eastward of the parish. In the year
1792, a subscription was raised to defray the expense of a search
in the property of Lord Perth, on the moor of Tullibardine, near
Anchterarder, and, from appearances then judged favorable, per-
sons acquainted, with the business maintained the opinion, that if
a thorough search should be made by boring, no doubt could be
entertained of coal being found in that moor. The undertaking,
however, was not long persevered in at that time, and a very general
opinion, whether well or ill-founded, prevailed in the district, that


