
768                          FIFESHIRE.

provided for in the trust-deed.  The Kirkcaldy school is entirely
under the management of the eighteen trustees.  The teacher's
salary in Kirkcaldy is L.100, and a schoolmistress is engaged to
teach the girls to sew, at a yearly salary of L.15.  The branches
taught are, English reading, writing, arithmetic, and music.  The
testator provides for a Sabbath school being taught in all the four
districts, and allows an annual sum of L.10 to each district for
this purpose.
   The sum of L.780 was mortified by Mr John Thomson, mer-
chant in Kirkcaldy, who died in 1810, the half of the interest of
which is to be expended " in paying school wages, and providing
school-books for poor children of the parish of Kirkcaldy."
About 20 children of the class described receive education from
this fund.
   Few places in Scotland enjoy such educational advantages as
Kirkcaldy.  There are few, if any in the parish, above twelve
years of age, who cannot read; there are very few who cannot
write a little.  Nor need there be any.  With such facilities for
obtaining a gratuitous education, the neglect of it in the poorest
would be inexcusable.  It may be inferred, from the number and
urgency of applicants for the benefit of the trust-funds of Philp
and Thomson, that the advantages of education are generally ap-
preciated.
   Literature.-There are five public libraries in the parish, viz.
Kirkcaldy Subscription Library, with 4000 volumes; Kirkcaldy
Mechanics' Library, 1500; United Secession Congregational
Library, 340; two circulating libraries, 2600,
   Scientific Association.-A scientific association was formed here
a few years ago, which provides it course of popular scientific lec-
tures for the community during the winter season.  These lec-
tures have frequently excited considerable interest.  They have
been generally well attended, and have diffused much valuable
information.
   There is a public reading-room in the town, and a small weekly
newspaper is published on Saturday.
   Charitable Institutions.-About thirty years ago, a few friendly
societies were formed in the parish, but being based on erroneous
principles, they soon began to decline, and they have all been long
extinct.
   A charitable institution, denominated the " Prime Gilt Box,"
which provides for old and disabled mariners belonging to the


