
44                             HADDINGTONSHIRE.

it seems powerfully attracted, and enters, the frith at Aberlady
Bay.
   Hydrography.-There is no river of considerable stream of
water in this parish, except two brooks	which run along the sides
of the ridge which comprehends the parish of Athelstaneford.
That on the north side is named the Peffer. It rises in a meadow in
the lower district of the parish, and dividing itself into two branch-
es, the one flows eastward and enters the sea, north of Tynning-
ham; the other moves slowly westward to Aberlady Bay. Each
branch flows about five miles before its waters unite themselves
with the sea. When the course of the Peffer was widened and
deepened some years ago, several stag horns were found, about two
and a half feet below the surface; and large oak trees have been
of times found imbedded in moss on the banks of that stream; and
the farmers who discovered them told the writer of this account,
that the trees were generally, found with their tops lying to the
south; for in this quarter the most violent storms come from the
north and north-east. Before the waters of that district were con-
fined and carried off by the course made for that purpose, the whole
strath extending from Aberlady Bay to Peffer mouth near Tynning-
ham, about eleven miles in length, was one continued morass, and
anciently covered with wood, the habitation of wild beasts. * But
the banks of that slow running stream are now converted into fertile
corn fields. Before that improvement the valuable fields on both

<FOOTNOTE>That a considerable part of the low lands in this part of the county was covered
with wood in the thirteenth century appears from the history of the family of Living-
stone of Saltcoats, in the parish of Dirleton. The whole line of the Peffer, including
part of the lands of Fenton and Chapel, and stretching towards North Berwick Law,
is said to have been at that time covered with wood, the den of wild beasts, and
greatly infested with wild boars, one of which is said to have been of great size, and
exceedingly destructive to those who dwelt in that neighbourhood. At that time fire
arms were not used for defence, and the only way of attacking and destroying the
ferocious beast, was with a spear, or sword, in hand. A reward was offered to any
me who should destroy the monster, and the reward promised was a track of land
extending from Gulan to North Berwick Law, or rather the right of pasturage for
cattle on that district, which appears to have remained in commonly so late as the
beginning of the last century, when these lands were divided by the Sheriff of the
county; among those-who had a servitude upon them. A man named Living-stone
had courage to undertake, and strength to perform the enterprise. Having armed
himself with a strong spear, and his right hand and arm shielded with a glove of thick
leather, he encountered and killed the ferocious beast, and obtained the promised re-
Ward. When a division of the lands took place, the heirs of Living-stone got about
from hundred acres of land in four separate parcels, the first commencing at Gulan,
and the fourth being the farm of Hard- Rigs, which is bounded on the east by North
Berwick Law. These four parcels, now distinct farms, still comprehend the estate
of Saltcoats. The family of Livingstone of Saltcoats became extinct about the mid-
dle of last century, and when the household furniture was sold, the ancient spear and
glove were found hanging in the garret of the mansion house, and were sold for a
trifle to a gentlemen of the name Livingstone, then resident in Edinburgh.


