
                         AUCHTERGAVEN.                          445

a chapel of ease established in their village in communion with the
Church of Scotland, and promising to erect a suitable place of
worship at their own expense. This petition was favourably en-
tertained, and a constitution for the chapel was sanctioned by the
General Assembly of the same year. Mr Johnstone, now in the,
parish of Aucbtermuchty, was ordained its first minister, and the
promised chapel was built at an expense of more than L.3000.
It is an elegant building, surmounted by a tower, and contains
sittings for 1150 persons. It was erected into a parish, quoud sa-
cra, in 1834. As the church stands within the verge of the pa-
rish of Redgorton, it belongs to the presbytery of Perth; but more
than two-thirds of the hearers are from this parish. The Stanley
Company have generously given the minister a house and garden,
which are in this parish, in addition to a stipend of L.150.
   In the village of Bankfoot, there are two dissenting meeting-
houses, one connected with the United Seceders, and anothdr con-
nected with the Relief Synod. About 150 heads of families, in-
habitants of this parish, are members of these places of worship, or
of a Seceder meeting in the parish of Kinclaven. But many of
the younger branches of these families, as well as the servants be-
longing to them, attend the Established Church. The ministers
of these dissenting chapels are paid by the seat-rents of their re-
spective places of worship; but the amount of which I am unable
to state. The parish church, when the weather permits, is well
attended both by old and young. The average number of com-
municants at Auchtergaven, is 800; at Stanley, from this parish,
600. The average amount of collections for religious and chari-
table purposes, throughout the year, is L.50.
   Education.-There are at present five schools in the parish, in
all of which the common branches nf knowledge, reading, writing,
and arithmetic, are taught. The parochial teacher has the legal,
accommodation, and the maximum salary; and besides; the elemen-
tary branches already specified, he hs qualified to teach English
grammar, Latin, book-keeping, and practical mathematics. The
school-fees are small,and not well paid; they will scarely amount
to L.15 a year. The Stanley Company maintains a alarge school
at their own expense. They give the teacher a house and gar-
den, and a r`lary of L.20 a year, besides furnishing a spacious
school-room. This school is generally attended by about 100 pupils,
and the teacher is qualified to teach the higher branches of know-


