
                              CLEISH.                     39

steady. Rheumatisms and coughs are common here, as in other
parts of Scotland, owing probably more to the dampness than the
cold. A good deal more rain falls here than on the shores of
the Forth, which are about twelve miles distant.
   Hydrography.-This parish is well supplied with excellent
springs, almost every house having a rivulet running near it. The
water is of good quality. The heat of most of the springs is 45&deg',
of some 42&deg'; they proceed from the whinstone and freestone rocks.
There are four lochs in this parish; they are situated on the
highest parts of the parish; the largest, Loch Glos, is about a
mile and a half in circumference, the others much smaller. The
fish in them are perches, pikes, and eels, with a few trouts.
The river Gairney divides Cleish from Kinross for about two miles
and a quarter; the water from the lochs falls into it. The fish
in Gairney are produced by the Loch-Leven trouts, which come up
the river during the floods in harvest, and return in the beginning
of winter. About this time, some eels are caught going down from
the lochs.
   Mineralogy.-The hills are principally composed of sandstone,
greywacke, and whinstone. The highest hills consist of the lat-
ter ; lower down on the north, there is excellent freestone, extend-
ing from east to west about four miles. There is also some of the
same kind on the south side of the hills, and in that part of Benar-
ty hill which is in Cleish parish. The best houses and bridges in
the county and neighbourhood are built of it. It is porous, bears
a fine polish, and does not yield to the weather. The whinstones
in the hills are in columns. On the side of the high road from
Kinross to Dunfermline, at Craigencat, (in Dunfermline parish,
but annexed, quoad sacra, to Cleish,) there are very regular ba-
salts in perpendicular pillars, with many horizontal divisions. They
are easily quarried, and make excellent dikes and road metal. Of
two stones of this kind fallen from the hill called the South Ingan,
a pair of mill-stones has been made for Cleish mill, They have
a great resemblance, internally, to the rocks of the Abbey Craig
of Stirling, from which many flour-mill-stones have been made.
There is coal on the estate of Blair-Adam, which was formerly
wrought to a considerable extent; it is a branch of the Kelty coal.
As it is near the proprietor's house, it has not been wrought for
many years. There is also coal in the hill, but the seams are thin,
and nearly perpendicular, so as not to be worth working. There
is a very good lime at Scarhill, on the estate of Cleish.


