
184			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

and Ken, the proprietor, John Cuninghame, Esq., built, about
twenty years ago, a very handsome house, in the old English style.
The stone used is granite, and was obtained partly in this parish
and partly in kells. The situation has considerable natural advan-
tages, of which the proprietor has judiciously availed himself, and
the place possesses much beauty.
	These two getlemen usually reside upon their estates in the
parish. There are three other resident heritors, who farm their
own lands.
	The ecclesiastical history of this parish is interesting in one par-
ticular, from its connecting with the origin of the Reformed Sy-
nod. Mr John M'Millan, the founder of that body, was minister
of Balmaghie for more than two years. This gentleman ap-
pears not to have been satisfied with Revolution settlement;
and, accordingly, in May 1703, as the presbytery record bears, he
protested verbally against all the courts of the Established Church,
and declared, that "he would withdraw from the presbytery for
three or four presbytery days, and perhaps longer;" but refused,
in the first instance, to assign his reasons for adopting such a course.
On being dealt with, however, he declared, that "the oath of al-
legiance, as cumulative to other defections, was the ground of his
withdrawing, and that he knew not whether this church was Pres-

cient bustic (bed) cannot be, with any degree of certainty, traced back for a longer pe-
riod than 386 years, its rude workmanship is indicative of higher antiquity. The
figures are as rudely executed as the effigies on the coin of Alexander III., but the
framework carving by which they are surrounded, and the ornamental panels below,
are done in better taste and with more regularity.
	"Since this relic came into my possession the greater part of the figures have been
transplaced and strengthened, with a vlew to make them resist for a few centuries more
the work or ravages of time."
	During the persecution in the seventeenth century, many persons, it is well
known, suffered in Galloway in the cause of religion. In the churchyard of Balmas-
ghie there are two grave-stones commemorative of the death of martyrs, one of which
bears the following inscription:
	"Here lyes David Halliday, portioner of Meifield, who was shot upon the 21st of
Feb. 1685; and David Halliday, once in Glengape. who was likewise shot upon the
11th July 1685, for their adherence to the principles of Scotland's Covenated Re-
formation.
				Beneath this stone two David Hallidays
				Doe lie, whose souls now sing their Master's praise.

				To know, if curious passengers desire,
				For what, by whom, and how they did expire:
				They did oppose this nation's perjury;
				Nor could they join with lordly prelacy.
				Indulging favours from Christ's enemies
				Quenched not their seek This monument then cries,
				These were the causes, not to be forgot,
				Why they by Lag so wickedly were shot.
				One same, one made, one grave, one heaven do tie
				Their souls to that one God eternally."



