
380                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

other in Octobdr. Both of these are intended for the sale of cat-
tle and horses, for hiring farcu-servants, and for transacting all
other kinds of country business.
 FueL.-The vast quantity of coal now annually consumed by the
manufacture of iron, and by steam-engines, has raised the price of
this necessary article of daily use so high, as to render it scarcely
attainable by the, poorer classes of the community. The conversion
of common peat-moss into a fuel has, therefore, become an ob-
ject of no inconsiderable importance.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
 In addition to the names of ministers of the parish already men-
tioned, it may be here stated, that Mr George Dunbar, minister
of this parish, died about the end of 1641, and Mr Samuel Ru-
therford was presented to the kirk of Calder in October 1642.
Some have supposed that Mr Rutherford was presented to
the kirk of West Calder; but this seems to be an error, as
the erection, of West Calder did not take place till 1645.
On the 13th of April 1643, Mr Hew Kennedy was ordained
and inducted. For the ceremony of institution, the moderator
delivered to Mr Hew the Bible and the keys of the kirk door, and
also gave him possession of the manse and glebe by delivering to
him "sand and stean." He was a very remarkable man, and soon
distinguished himself as one of the most zealous of the protest-
ing party of which Samuel Rutberford, James Guthrie, Patrick
Gillespie, &c. were the heads. He continued in the charge of the
parish till the restoration of Charles II., and was regarded by his
brethreo, after the Revolution, as one of the most distinguished
of the ministers who had survived the persecutions. He was
the moderator of the first General Assembly which met after the
re-establishment, of the Presbyterian Church Government in 1690.
In 1663, Mr Colvill was admitted minister of Mid-Calder, and
died in February 1671; and, on 26th May 1672, Mr John So-
merville succeeded him as minister of this parish.


