
                              DRUMOAX.	               		887

relict of ----- Burnett of Elrick, and daughter of George Jamiesoni
the celebrated Scottish painter, by whom he bad three children.
In 1674, he was removed from St Andrews to the Professorship
of Mathematics in the University of Edinburgh, and died in 1675,
in the thirty-seventh year of his age.
   Parochial Registers.-The parish registers are voluminous
The record of doctrine and discipline consists of eight volumes,
all of which are complete, (except the first, which wants two leaves
at the beginning), and contain an interesting account of ecclesi-
astical transactions in the parish from 17th September 1682, the
date of the earliest entry.  The baptism resister (two vols.) was
begun 3d January 1692, and the register of marriage contracts 2d
June 1715 ; and, from these dates, both have been carefully
brought down to the present day.  A cash-book, in three volumes,
contains an account of the intromissions of the session with the
poor's funds from Whitsunday 1750.  No register of deaths has
ever been kept in the parish.
   Antiquities.-The Fort or Tower of Drum stands upon the east
side of the hill of that name, and is a large and venerable build-
ing.  The date of its erection cannot be ascertained, as it existed
when the estate was conveyed to the family in 1323; but it is
conjectured, from the character of its architecture, that it must
have been built about the twelfth century, while the forest of Drum
was a royal chase,-probably by King William the Lion.  It is of
an oblong. form, somewhat rounded at the corners, being 50 fee& 6
inches by 39 feet at the base, and 70 feet 6 inches in height to
the top of the battlement. Its interior is divided into three sto-
ries-the roof of which are of vaulted mason-work ; but as the
two uppermost seem to have been subdivided into two apartments
each (the one over the other), by a wooden floor, fixed to stones
which still project from both sides of the wall, the whole interior,
when inhabited, may have been divided into five stories.  There are
at present two entrances to this tower, one on the south-west corner,
which communicates with the house, and another, which seems to be
the original one, is near the south-east corner of the building, 12
feet from the ground, on entering by which there are two inner
doors immediately in front.  Within the one towards the right is
a dark narrow stair of 19 steps, which leads down to the dungeon
(which is the first story), an apartment 28 feet 6 inches by 15 feet
6 inches, and 11 feet high, having a draw-well in one corner, 9
feet-deep, and a hole in the roof communicating with the apart-
ments above, through which, it is imagined, the prisoners, were


