          
                      LESLIE.                        1023

the church-yard of Leslie. On his tombstone is the following in-
scription, viz. "Here lyes William Forbes of Leslie, who lived
fifty-five years, and departed this life, November 12,1670 years."
John Forbes succeeded his father, after whom the lands came
into the Lei-th Hall family, in which they continue. There was
also a castle at New Leslie, a little to the west of the present
Castle of Leslie, the foundations of which were lately dug up.
At the time to which the tradition mentioned above refers, the
lands of the parish were held by Lord Glammis, the Bishop of
Aberdeen, and the Baron of Leslie. The part possessed by Lord
Glammis belonged at one time to the Abbey of Lindores. A
charter of a very ancient date is said to exist, conveying the
part of the lands of the parish, now called Courtieston, but, in
the charter, Cruterston, along with power to the proprietor of
ruling cum Flaminga lach.

<TABLE=Population>
                               Ill.--POPULATION.
                 Population in 1755,           319
                               1782,           413
                               1792,           392
                               1831,           473
                               1841,           556

	There are about 107 families in the parish, either engaged in,
or dependent on, aoriculture, with the exception of a few aged
and infirm women, who gain something by knitting stockings, the
ages for which are now reduced to a mere pittance; a young and
active woman being able to gain only from 1s. to 1s. 6d. a-week.
The trades-people, such as wrights, blacksmiths, tailors, &c. are
merely sufficient to supply the wants of the inhabitants in their
respective branches.   One fatuous person belongs to the parish.

	                     IV.--INDUSTRY.
        The number of acres under tillage is about 2000; valued rent,
L.1566, 6s. 8d. Scots, and real, about L.2300. The rent of land
varies very much. What is called infield lets in some cases at
L.3 per Scots acre; outfield varies from 10s. to L.1, 5s. per Scots
acre. The rotation of cropping is generally a seven course shift,
which allows three-sevenths in grain crop, three-sevenths in grass,
and one-seventh in turnip. This system, which is almost uni-
formly pursued, might, it is thouoht, be profitably exchanged in
many cases for a six course shift, with only one grain crop before
turnips, another after, three grasses, which would allow the
same rest, and crop the land less than the seven course shift,
Complaints are general of the deficiency of the grass crops, which


