
194                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

salmon and sea-trout ascend the Kale for the purpose of spawning.
Only a very few of the lesser migratory sort find their way up the
stream at the season when they are at all valuable.
   Botany.-Besides the more common species of plants, there are
to be found in this parish the following:-Euinymus Europaeus, a
rare plant in Scotland, grows among the rocks in Shoreden-cleugh;
Asperula odorata, Hedera Helix, Hyacinthus non-scriptus, are to
be met with in Chatto-cleugh; Dianthus deltoides, Saxifraga gra-
nulata, Sedum acre, in great abundance on the porphyry rocks;
S. villosum, Menyathes trifoliata, Empetrum nigrum, Rubus cha-
mamorus, Vaccinium oxycoccos, on the heaths and mossy grounds;
V. myrtillus, V. Vitis-idaea, Lycopodium clavatum, L. alpinum,
on the north and north-west declivity of Hounam-law, and else-
where; Digitalis purpurea, Solidago virgaurea, on the sandy
grounds by the side of the waters; Rubus fruticosus, on the glebe
lands; Anthoxanthum odoratum, abundant in our meadows. In
other parts of the parish, w meet with Papaver Argemone, Cen-
taurea scabiosa, Iris pseud-acorus, Trichonema Bulbocastanum, Ox-
alisacetosella, Veronica beccabunga, Cistus Helianthemum, Parnassia
palustris, Trifolium striatum, Sedum Telephium, Thlaspi arvense,
Tormentilla reptans, Cicuta virosa, Hippuris vulgaris, Leontodon
palustre, Eriophorum vaginatum, Valeriana dioica, V. officinalis,
Gnaphalium dioicum, Drosera vulgaris, Hydrocotyle vulgaris, Co-
marum palustre, and various species of Orchis.
   The broom, the whin, fern or braken, rushes, and corn chamo-
mile are all abundant. The cultivated crops of corn are barley,
and the best varieties of common and early oats. The corn-cockle
and wild mustard prevail to a considerable extent in some of the
cultivated lands, and are pernicious to the growing crops.
   A considerable portion of the parish was at one period richly
wooded; and the remains of a very extensive forest of hazels,
(corylus avellana,) having the appearance of great antiquity, are
to be met with on Chatto-crags. On the low-lying lands of Kirk-
row, are still a number of trees of great beauty, and of extreme luxu-
riance both in foilage and ramification. Philogar used to be much
admired for its woody banks; but the greater part of the wood is
now cutting down by the proprietor. Boughtrig and the two Granges
also present a few clumps of trees. A number of full-grown elms
and plane trees, of considerable age and size, surround the church
and burying-ground, which are reported to have been planted by a
former minister of the parish.
                              3


