

	896                         FIFESHIRE.

	   There are three harbours in, or close to the parish, belong-
	ing to the Earl of Elgin, viz. Charleston, Limekilns, and Bruce-
	haven.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The Abbey Parish Church is situated in
	the town of Dunfermline, about two miles from the nearest, and
	six from the furthest boundary of the parish.  Of course it is not
	convenient for the distant part of the population, for there are
	1000 inhabited dwelling-houses more than two miles, one-half of
	which are nearly four, about 15 are further than four, and two or
	three are about six miles distant from the church.  There is a
	dissenting church in two of the extreme positions-Crossgates
	and Limekilns.
	   The New Abbey Church was built in 1821, and opened for
	divine service on the 30th September of that year.  It needed
	repair so early as 1834-5 from dry-rot, but is at present in ex-
	cellent condition.  It affords nominal accommodation for 2051
	persons, but there are 552 sittings in a measure useless, from in-
	convenient position, 402 of these being behind either pillars or
	the pulpit, so that the minister cannot her seen from them; and
	in the rest he can scarcely be heard, on account of the echo or
	distance from the speaker.  Indeed, the accommodation which
	can be considered available is only about 1400, and much of this
	requires and could receive improvement.  Suggestions for this
	purpose have often been made, and some of them tried, with
	more or less success, but none of them have yet been adopted.
	There are 110 free sittings allocated to the poor, but from being
	considerably behind the pulpit, are quite useless, and never occu-
	pied.  A few temporary forms have been placed for their use near
	the pulpit, which are generally well filled.  This want of due ac-
	commodation for the poor has always been considered a great
	evil.  A few of the heritors and tenants take rents for their sit-
	tings, which they do not themselves occupy.  The burgh having
	paid a fifth of the expense of erecting the church, obtained a fifth
	of the area in return, and have accordingly sold several of their
	pews to private individuals.
	   From time immemorial, there had been neither manse nor pas-
	ture-ground belonging to the ministers of Dunfermline; but there
	were paid to the senior minister, in lieu of the former, L.3, 6s. 8d.,
	and of the latter L.1, 13s. 4d.  One of the minister, during last
	century, sued for a manse, without success; but the late Rev.
	Allan M'Lean, minister of the first charge, having discovered that


