
436                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

interest of which is annually to be laid out in the purchase of books.
The sole management of this bequest is vested in the minister
and kirk-session.
	Charitable Institutions.--A friendly soceity was instituted in the
year 1789, which has along been in a flourishing condition, and
is of great benefit to sick mambers. At this time, it has a capital of
L. 300. The terms of admission are regulated according to the
age of the applicants. The quarterly contribution from each mem-
ber is 1s. 7d. The sick receive weekly for three months 4s., and
after that period 2s. 6d. The allowance for funeral expenses is
L. 1, 10s., and eabh member gives the widow, or nearest relation,
1s. There is no saving bank; and the widow, or nearest relation,
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--Poor rates were intitute in this
parish in 1773.  The assesent for the last year amounted to
L. 80, or about 4s. 6d. per cent. upon the valued rental. The weekly
collections average 5s.;--from which sum L. 1, 10s. is paid quarterly
to the assessment. There is also a sum L.230 at interest in the
bank, with another of L. 100, the interest of which is given to the
schoolmaster for registering all the children baptized in the church.
The dues of proclamation, fines exacted for irregular conduct, and
fees for the use of the mortcloth, go all to the session funds,--expect
ones shilling, which is given to the session-clerk for every marriage.
The number of poor on the roll is 18, besides a few who occasionally
recieve relief. Perhaps there is no parish in Scotland where the
wants of the poor are so well supplied, or their comfort better looked
after. No public begging is allowed. None, except real objects
of charity, or those upon whom misfortune has suddenly fallen,
seek relief from the poor's funds.
	Inns.--There is only one inn in the parish.
	Fuel.--Peat is very much used, and cost per cart load 2s.
	Many families use coal, which is brough from the pits at Cano-
bie, a distance of twelve miles, by a very good road.

             MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Great improvements have taken place, in this parish, since
1793. Every new improvement in agriculture has been introduced
that promised to be advantageous. In the improvement of pas-
ture ground by draining and building of diles, great advantages
have resulted both in drying the sheep walks and in affording shel-
ter,--so that the diseases, poke and rot, formerly common, are now
almost unknown. The facilities to markets, by good roads in all
directions, have been greatly increased.
	November 1835.


