
                     KILLEAN AND KILCHENZIE.                          387

    day-labourers, and the fact cannot be concealed, that the privations
    under which they labour are truly deplorable.
      Three or four poor families frequently congregate into one
    farni, live in wretched hovels, rudely constructed without any
    mortar, one division of which is occupied by the family, and the
    other converted into a kind of byre, and often no partition in the
    but to separate the human from the brute creation. They hold
    their dwelling-houses from year to year, and the tenants, who are
    their landlords, can dispossess them at pleasure. A rent of LA
    or L.5 Sterling is exacted for a house kept in bad repair, a small
    kail garden, the scanty pasture of a cow, and some ground for
    planting potatoes, in the outskirts of the farm. Their meagre
    diet consists of potatoes, sour milk, and, when they can afford it,
    a little oat bread and porridge. Animal food is a lukury in which
    they seldom indulge. Such as can salt a little fish occasionally
    use a change of diet.
      Their sole dependence for payment of rent is upon the earnings
    of their children, whom they hire out as servants through the dis-
    tricti For the honour of 'human nature, it should be recorded,
    that their sons and daughters would conceive themselves deficient
    in gratitude and natural affection, did they not reserve a portion
    or their wages. to pay house rent for their parents.
      For culinary purposes, they sometimes use a species of wild
    leek, which grows amono, the rocks of the shore; the juice of
    bogbean for rheumatism, and wild thyme for headaches.  They
    abo ascribe great virtue to the essence of ground ivy and cen-
    taury.  At one period, whisky was considered a sovereign rernedy
    fOr every disease; but now, after having experienced its fatal
    feets, they have recourse to a physician.

                             M-INDUSTRY.
      Agriculture.-It has already beeni observed that the united pa-
    rish contains an area of 81 square,miles ; of which it is supposed
    that 5000 or 6000 acres at least are arable, or subjected to the
    operations of the plough. It must therefore lbe obvious that the
    arable soil bears but a small proportion to the uncultivated and
    mountainous regions. The elevation of the moorish land, toge-
    ther with its sterilit, will for ever set at defiance the utmost ef-
    forts of human industry; and such detached fields as might be,
    cultivated with great labour and expense, are much better adapted
    for pasturage than tillage.


