
                           FORTINGAL.                          553

individuals of both sexes; while many others have sought a liveli-
hood in the low country, especially in the great towns of Edin-
burgh, Glasgow, Dundee, Perth, Crieff, &e.  The system of unit-
ing several farms together, and letting them to one individual, has,
more than any other circumstance, promoted emigration.
   There are seven different burying-places in the parish,-two in
Glenlyon, one in Fortingal, and four in Rannoch,-at none of
which are registers of burials kept.
   Language, Character, &c. of the People.-The Gaelic is the
language of the natives. It is, however, losing ground, and losing
its purity, very much of late. Forty years ago, in some parts
of the parish, especially in the district of Rannoch, it was spoken
in as great purity as in any district of the Highlands. That race
of genuine natives having disappeared, many of their phrases and
idioms have become almost unintelligible to the rising genera-
tion. It is, however, fratifying to the antiquary and to the lover
of Celtic literature, that so much has been done to rescue the
language and insure its permanency and stability; still all that is
practicable has not yet been achieved. Hundreds of vocables
might be collected which have escaped the notice of the several
learned compilers of our Gaelic dictionaries.
   The people may be characterized as intellectual, sober, and in-
dustrious in their habits, honest and religious. Crime and delin-
quency are ashamed to raise their heads; and consequently occur
as rarely among us, as in any parish of equal extent and popula-
tion, in the Highlands, or in any part of the kingdom.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Not even an approximation to the number of
acres of arable, waste, pasture, common, woods, &c. can be given.
   The indigenous kinds of trees that prevail are the birch, fir,
alder, hazel, oak, elm, ash, plane, willow, beech, the yew. The
kinds generally planted, and which thrive well, are the Scotch fir,
larch, spruce, oak.
   The arable land in this parirh bearing but a very small, proportion
to that in pasture, and the holdings invariably consisting of very, dis-
Proportionate quantities of botb,-the rent of small crofts will give
the best idea of the rate of land in this parish. The rent of a lot of
two acres, with as much hill grazing att`ched as is sufficient for the
maintenance of a horce, a cow, and two dozen sheep, summer and
winter, is from L.6, 10s to L. 7.; of a lot of five acres, having


