
                                   BARRAY.                             203

         fully marled, and said to be inferior to none of the kind in Scot-
         land. Of this stone the light-house and its appendages are
         built. It bears to be dressed and polished in a superior style.
          The soil of this place is of different kinds and qualities such as
         moss, light sand, light black soil, and meadow land.
           Zoology.-Barray can boast of no species of animals peculiar to
         itself, nor any birds but such as are common along the whole coast
         of the Western Isles. Deer appear to have been inhabitants of it at
         one time, from the number of their horns still found, buried in the
         earth. No part of the west coast of Scotland abounds more in fish of
         every description than Barray, such as ling, cod, tusk, hake,turbot,
         flounders, together with the various other kinds that frequent the
         western isles; and the coast is frequently visited by immense shoals
         of herrings, which the inhabitants seldom take the advantage of
         catching, fofwant ofproper tackling. The grub-worm often proves
         destructive to the labour of the farmer, more especially in cold
         wet weather, and the caterpillar no less hurtful to that of the gar-
         dener. Various means have been resorted to for their destruction,
         but none have proved effectual. With regard to shell-fish, no
         place on the western coast abounds more in this article of food
         than Barray.  Here are to be found lobsters, crabs, clams, razor-
         fish, muscles, welks, limpets, and the still more important shell-
         fish the cockle, constituting, in scarce years, a principal part
         of the subsistence of the inhabitants. Cockles are to be found in
         the sands of Barray in such immense quantities, that scores of horse
         loads may be taken up during a single tide, and the people com-
         Sider them the most nourishing shell-fish-on their shores. Some-
         times they eat-them when boiled out of the shell, at other times,
         such as have milk, boil it and the Cockles together making them
         into soup, which they consider a very nutritious diet. They com
         mence the use of them in times of scarcity in April, and continue
         the use of them till the beginning of August. The people allege
         that the quantity of this fish found on the shores  is much greater
         in scarce seasons than at any other time.

            Botany.-Under this head little or nothing -can be said, As
         there is no herb or plant in Barray but such are commolm to
         every other parish in the Western Hebrides. Barray is defec-
         tive in the article of timber, as any of its neighbouring isles. It is
         said that wood willmot grow in any part of the Long' Island, but the
         truth is. that no trial has been made. It is beyond doubt,


