
20  			LANARKSHIRE.

and sergeants. The great and little palm branches of the Salix
capraea in flower, and decked with a profusion of Daffodils, were
carried behind him. A handsome embroidered flag, the gift of a
lady in the town to the boys, was used on his festival. The day
concluded with a ball.
	On the Lanemar or Landmark-day, there are processions to in-
spect the marches of the town lands. As a method of impressing
the boundaries upon the memory, all persons who attend for the
first time are ducked in the river Mouss, in the channel of which
one of the march-stones is placed: and horse and foot races take
place upon the moor. It is a day great festivity.
	The people are, upon the whole, cleanly in their habits. But the
late severe depression in the weaving trade has reduced great num-
bers to such a state of destitution as calls for the liveliest sympathy.
They not only want decent clothing, but can hardly procure sufficient
food. At the cotton-works the people are well dressed, and live
in general very comfortably. In all parts of the parish, oat-meal
porridge for breakfast, potatoes with herrings for dinner, and again
porridge or potatoes for supper, form the usual diet of the labour-
ing-classes. Tea is used whenever it can be afforded. Poaching
prevails to a considerable extent, with its usual bad effects.

				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--As much of the land in the
parish, both arable, waste, and in wood, has never been measured, it
is only by approximation that the following results have been
obtained:

<TABLE>
		Arable acres, Scotch statute measure,		6500
		Uncultivated,					1200
		Town common,					 600
		Under wood,					 600
		Planted as orchards,				  36
Of late years there has been very little planting in this parish,
and that little confined to the estates of Lee and Cleghorn. An
intelligent nurseryman in the place says, that the forest trees plant-
ed in the whole of the upper ward of Lanarkshire amount to
700,000 and 900,000 annually for the last ten years. These
have been in the proportion of two parts of larch to one of spruce
and Scotch fir. The larch is found tn grow best upon the high
lands, and is of more value to the planter, and hence is now in far
greater demand than about twenty-five years ago. Little oak, ash,
elm, or hand-wood, of any kind is planted, except in the more shel-


