
602                          FORFARSHIRE.

versicolor, abietinus, suberosus, and igniarius: the latter is called
touch-wood, being used for tinder. Also the Riccia fructiculosa,
with Jungermannia scularis, albicans, ovata, trichomanis and ex-
cisa
	When the botanist traverses the marshes, and examines the
lakes, he will find his trouble amply repaid. In the lakes of For-
far, Rescobie, and Balgavies, he will meet with the Typha latifo-
lia; this is also in a rivulet not far from Pitmuis, by the side
the turnpike road that leads from Forfar to Arbroath. In the lakes
of Rescobie and Balgavies, are likewise to found Nymphaea lu-
tea and alba, and Ceratophyllum demersum; and on their margins,
Lysimachia thysifora: the letter plants, though rare in other
parts of Britain, is not uncummon in Angus-shire. Potamogeton
perfoliatum, lucens, crispum, pectinatum, compressum, gramineum,
pusillum, likewise occur in these lakes. Cicuta virosa, which is
one of the most virulent of all the vegetable poisons, grows on
their margins. Cattle, when allowed to browse by the sides of the
lakes in the winter months, are sometimes deceived, by its mell
being very weak at that season; and when once they have eaten it,
it generally proves fatal in two or three hours. When the summer
is a little advanced, the odour of the plant warns the cattle, and
then they carefully avoid it. The Scirpus lacustris, the well known
rush so much used for making rush-bottomed chairs, is common.
	The more remarkable plants in the arish are the following:
Dianthus Armeria, discovered on fields near the seat of Charles
Gray, Esq. of Carse, the only place where Mr Don had seen it
in Scotland, Crepis pulchra, among the debris of the rocks of the
hills of Turin and Pitscandly, but very rare,-and one of the
Zoophyta, called the Spongia lacustris, observed by Mr Don in the
lake of Rescobie.
        Plantations.-There are several thriving plantation in the pa-
rish, though of no great extent. They consist chiefly of common
larch, and spruce fir, though frequently intermixed with ash, and
oak, and birch, and elm. There are soils congenial to every sort
of timber.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Rescobie seems, in times long since gone by, to have been a
place of considerable consequence. It once had its castle like
other places of importtance; but not a vestige of it now remains.
The place where it stood cannot with certainty be pointed out, or.
				3


