                         KILLEARNAN.                            63

per acre to the end of the lease, and at that rent to continue for
the remainder of their lives;-by which means, the parish is sup-
plied with a sufficient number of labourers, and a total stop is put
to emigration from his estate.
   For several years, a constant trade has been carried on, in this
parish, with Newcastle and Hull,-fir props being exported to both
these places, and the returning ships bringing lime and coal. This
not only affords constant employment for the people, but supplies
their families with abundance of brushwood, of which they stood
much in need.
   There is no complaint arising from the want of labour.
   The rent of this parish at last report was L. 3545. It now
amounts to L. 6000.


                PARISH OF KILLEARNAN.

         PRESBYTERY OF CHANONRY, SYNOD OF ROSS.

            THE REV. JOHN KENNEDY, MINISTER.


            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THE origin of the name of this parish is uncertain.
Tradition makes the burying-ground, which gives its name to the
parish, to have been the burying-ground, of Irenan, a Danish prince
who fell in battle on the northern confines of the parish, where
Caim Irenan still exists. In all church records, it is now known by
the name of Killearnan.
   Extent, &c.-The length of the parish from west to east is from
5 to 6 miles; its breadth, in one part, is from 2 to 3 miles, from
south to north. It is bounded on the west by the parish of Urray;
on the north by the parish of Urquhart; on the east by the parish
of Kilmuir Wester and Suddy; and on the south by the Frith of
Beauly, along which it is pleasantly situate. It is wholly the pro
perty of two heritors, viz. the Trustees of the late Sir William
Fettes, Bart. residing in Edinburgh, and Colin Mackenzie, Esq.
of Kilcoy, residing at Balmaduthy, in the parish of Kilmuir Wester
and Suddy.
   Topographical Appearances.-The elevation of the parish from
the sea on the south side to the summit of the Mil-Bui on the
north, is gradual. The shore is sandy and clayish, without any

