
                                PENNINGHAME.              191

tions given in the will on those points are very minute, some of
them rather curious.
	The trustees built an excellent house at the northend of New-
tonstewart, agreeably to a plan furnished by John Henderson, Esq.
architect, Edinburgh, on a piece of ground extending to three acres,
presented to them by the Earl of Galloway, when Lord Garlies;
and the school was opened in 1834.
	Of the natives of this parish, it is believed there are none be-
tween six and fifteen who cannot write or read; nor any upwards
of fifteen. But there are families from Ireland constantly settling,
for a longer or shorter period, some of the heads of which cannot
write or read, but they very generally express a desire to have
their children taught. Some are prevented by poverty from send-
ing their children to school; and others, who are Roman Catho-
lics, may have scruples respecting Protestant schools.
	There are great facilities for procuring education for the children
of the poor in this parish. A number of children is recommended
to be taught gratis, at the parish school, in terms of the act of
Parliament. That number is fixed in proportion to the extent of
the school, at the time of fixing it. The proportion proposed was
about one to fifteen or sixteen. From ten to twelve are taught on
a bequest by the late Sir William Douglas, Baronet. Ten are re-
commended to be taught gratis in the Douglas School, by the
Trustees of the late Saluel Douglas, Esq. and a reasonable num-
ber is taught gratis at eabh of the endowed schools. The people
do certainly value the benefits of education; but in the lower classes
generally, the desire of procuring it for their children is not always
so strong as could be wished. At the same time, they are always
ready to admit its importance. The schools are judiciously enough
placed, but from the great extent and shape of the parish, there are
still some parts of it at a very inconvenient distance from any
school. With one exception, those parts are not populous. Per-
haps two additional schools would sufficiently accommodate the dis-
tricts of the parish referred to.
	Library, &c.--A subscription library was formed lately in New-
tonstewart; where there is also a public reading-room.
	A clothing-club has existed for some years, with much advan-
tage to the industrious poor. The members pay 1d. or 2d. a-
week, and at the end of the year they receive in clothes the ac-
cumulated amount, with their proportion of such contributions as
may have been made to the box during the year.



