
158                        EDINBURGSHIRE.

prietors are in every instance acting on deliberate views, both of
their personal interests, and of what is likely to be for the even-
tual good of their estates.
  Generally, it may be said, that wood grows freely, and of good
quality, throughout the different parts of the parish. It is known,
however, to persons conversant with such matters, that the best
woods for use are, not always obtained from spots which are most
remarkable for the speedy growth, and the luxuriant beauty of
their living trees. It is also known that places which are in close
proximity to each other are sometimes very differently disposed
to the production of the hardest and most valuable woods; and it
is equally true, that the same quality of soil which is favourable
to the most perfect formation of one kind of wood, is not equally
propitious to the most healthy and useful condition of trees of
another species. This variety seems in some measure to depend
on causes which are not yet quite understood, and which cannot
be entirely resolved either into the mere height of the climate, or
the more speedy or tardy growth of the wood. But in general
it is believed that the wood of this district is of a superior kind.
The tree which seems to be most native to our glens and river
sides is the ash.
  Of inferior plants, the deadly nightshade used to grow in too
luxuriant crops among the ruins of the Castle; but of late I have
found some difficulty in tracing the plants, perhaps because, in my
fear lest the children of the parish might suffer from the use of
the glossy and inviting berries, I have been in the habit of cutting
down the plants before the fruit was perfectly ripe.
  Abundance of wild roses, some of which are of superior tint
and flavour, blossom on all the hill sides; and the soil under the
shade of the more luxuriant woods, and along the banks of the
different streams, is often thickly overlaid with a gorgeous carpet,
woven of the most beautiful and elegantly formed of the produc-
tions of Flora.
  The present Professor of Botany in the University of Edinburgh,
who wisely accustoms his students to researches in the open fields,
frequently makes this neigbbourhood the scene of his exploratory
rambles with his pupils. - The sides of the streams on the estate
of Arniston are peculiarly rich in such plants as grow under the
shade of lofty trees, and in moist and cool situations. The swampy
glens between Borthwick and Crichton are equally prolific of such
plants as usually grow in such situations. The sloping braes are

				4


