
 112                    BERWICKSHIRE.

100 acres of land, at the expense of about L. 5 per acre. The ad-
vantage derived from the improvement of the pasture is found to
afford a sufficient return upon the capital thus employed.
   Surface draining is found to be a great improvement on the stock
farms in Lammermoor, and has been carried to a considerable ex-
tent. By cutting a trench about 24 inches wide and 14 inches
deep in a proper direction, the water is allowed to escape from the
surface of boggy land; and instead of the rushes, &c. produced in
swampy situations, there rises a natural grass mixed with white
clover.
   Great advantage would result to the tenant from more accom-
modation in the way of houses for cattle, &c. than is at present
found on some of the farms; and generally from more extensive
enclosing; strips of plantation judiciously situated for shelter would
also bevery conducive to his interest.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish may be estimated as follows:

<TABLE>
Aver re produce of grain of all kinds, about 1200 quarters, at the average price of
   22s. per quarter,                                                L. 1320  0   0
Potatoes and turnips, about 130 acres, at the average price of L. 4,
   10s. per acre,                                                       585  0   0
Pasture, with straw and hay, cut principally to be consumed on the
   farms,                                                               650  0   0
                                                                        __________
                                                Total,              L. 2255  0   0

   The yearly value of raw produce may be assumed, therefore, as
between L. 2000 and L. 3000 Sterling. In point of soil and cli-
mate, this parish is perhaps preferable to any other part of Lam-
mermoor, and on this account the returns from corn, turnips, and
pasture, may be taken somewhat above the average for the hill dis-
trict.
   The leases of the several farms are for nineteen years, and do
not seem to present any obstacle to improvement.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The parish roads are kept in tole-
rably good repair, though their occasional steepness is felt an in-
convenience.
   There is, properly speaking, no village in the parish; but in a
delightful little vale through which the Whitadder glides, lie the
farm-house and steading of Abbey St Bathans with its adjoining
smithy; a neat cottage, a corn-mill, the decent parish church,
the manse which, topping a little eminence, is embosomed among
trees, and the school-house; so that there are here to be seen with-
in a small space a cluster of objects connected with the improve-




