
                            BEDRULE.                         291

convert arable into pasture lands, which require fewer hands.  In
the farm of Reweastle, there were in 1832, 39 inhabitants, whereas
at present there are only 21.

<TABLE>
There are in the parish under 10 years of age,          78
                        from 10 to 20                   64
                             20 to 50                   86
                             50 to 60                   14
                             60 to 70                   11
                             70 to 80                    4

   Almost the whole population is engaged in agriculture.  There
are two stocking-weavers, and one Smith, but neither tailor, shoe-
maker, nor joiner in the whole parish.  These must be sought at
Denholm or Jedburgh ;--the former, two,--the latter, three miles
and a-half from the village of Bedrule.  What can he better want-
ed, we have neither alehouse nor whisky-shop.
The inhabitants in general, as in most pastoral districts, are sim-
ple in their manners, and temperate in their habits, and pretty re-
gular in their attendance on divine ordinances.   The late excite-
ment with regard to politics has even reached this retired spot,
and has done much to unsettle their calm and peaceful habits, and
sour their dispositions.  But it is to be hoped that this excitement
will soon pass away, as there are already symptoms of melioration
in this respect, and that the sound sense and deep religious feel-
ing, for which the peasantry of this country have been so long dis-
tinguished, will regain their wonted sway over their minds.  It has
been remarked to the author, and confirmed by his own experi-
ence, that there is less gaiety and cheerfulness among the labouring
classes than in former times, and that the song of the milkmaid,
and the whistling of the ploughman, which were so common in this
land of poetry and song--are now seldom heard.  This most in-
nocent and heart-cheering amusement, every lover of Ms kind-
every one who takes a deep interest in the happiness of the rural
population, the nerves and sinews of a country--cannot but wish
to see revived, and that those sweet pastoral songs, with all their in-
teresting associations, may again be heard-cheering the labours of
the field, delighting the listening ear, and awakening in the mind
the most pleasing emotions.
   The improvement which has lately taken place, generally through-
out the country, in habits of neatness and cleanliness, is very con-
spicuous in this parish.  Not only are the houses of the farm-ser-
vants more substantial and commodious, but the furniture is of a
superior kind to what was usual in former times.  There are few


