
                                 EVIE AND RENDALL.                  197

     Rendall; and the whole of this hill ground, which constitutes by
        far thelargest portion of each parish, is undivided common, se-
     parated from the grass and corn lands, by an earthen fencer, called
        the Hill Dike. The cultivated ground generally lies on a gentle
        declivity towards the sea shore, and varies in breadth from half a
        mile, to Dearly a mile and a half, in some places.
        The outline of the coast is not marked by any of those deep in-
	dentations which are common throughout Orkney. The beach,
	with the exception of one small bay, of beautiful white shell sand,
	is rocky. In some places, the rocks rise abruptly, forming a kind
	of wall against which the sea dashes; and there are a few fissures,
	(on a small scale, however,) which are not destitute of the pictu-
	resque; but for the most part, the rocky shore is low and flat. There
	is no headland of any importance, except that at Costa, already
	mentioned. The principal bay is at Woodwick, and Gairsay is
	the only island which deserves notice. It is part of the parish of
	Rendall, from which it is separated by a narrow sound. It is
	nearly circular, and in circumference upwards of four miles. The
	ground gradually rises from the shore, and terminates in a beauti-
	ful conical shaped green hill, upon the summit of which there is a
	cairn of stones; but at what period carried there, or for what pur-
	pose, there is no tradition.
	   Meteorology.-The ordinary range of the barometer is from 28 1/2
	to 30.  I have rarely observed it higher or lower.
	   Climate.-The fimate of these parishes is decidedly damp.
	Besides the moist fogs which are common in spring and the be-
	ginning of summer, it seldom happens that we have a week of
	continued dry weather.  There is a great humidity in the
	atmosphere, and the diseases which are prevalent, are pre-
	cisely what might be anticipated from such a climate.  Fe
	verish colds, with dysentery, occur every season; cases of ague
	and consumption occur occasionally, and very few of the people
	who are advanced in life, are free from rheumatic attacks. To
	some constitutional however, the climate seems to be positively
	beneficial, and many of the inhabitants outlive the allotted term
	of threescore years and ten.
	   Hydrography.-The frith that bounds the parish of Evie on
	the north-east and east, is called Enhallow Sound. It varies, in

        <FOOTNOTE>The common belonging to the parish of Rendall is now about to be divided.


