
554                           FORFARSHIRE.

advantage to the interests of the country. By it an additional mail
is carried south and north daily.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands on the brink of
the Tay, at the southern extremity of the parish, and is conse-
quently rather inconveniently situated for a considerable propor-
tion of the population; but it is well set down for the contemplated
increase along the line of the railway. It was built in 1813, is in
good repair, is seated for 1100 hearers, but will contain 1200 with
ease. Now that 2000 of the population have been taken away by
the Broughty Ferry chapel, it is much too large for the parish;
and yet it is believed that, in a few years, it will be found small
enough; for, exclusive of the Ferry district, the population of the
original parish has increase upwards of 400 since that chapel was
erected fifteen years ago. In the old church, what was called "the
common loft" belonged to the session, in lieu of which several pews
have been given to the session in the new church. All the rest are the
property of the heritors, and given by them to their tenants. The
manse is a commodius house, and was built in 1829. The glebe
consists of four and a-half acres of excellent land. The stipend
amounts to 17 chalders of victual (half meal, half barley), with
L.10 for communion elements. The only benefaction now extant
is a mortification of L.100 Scots yeary, payable from Grange,
partly as a bursary for poor scholars, and partly for the behoof of
the poor's funds.
	As hinted above, the village of Broughty Ferry, with a small
landward territory around it, was, in 1834, erected into a parish
ecclesiastical, having been previously the district attached to the
chapel of ease there. This chapel was built in 1826, and a mi-
nister was ordained to the charge in 1827. The election of the
minister is vested in "the male sitters, being communicants." A
bond, given to the Presbytery, secures L. 120 of annual sti-
pend to the minister. But when the debt is liquidated this will be
increased. The sources whence the stipend is derived are, the
seat-rents, and six annual collections made at the church door in
behalf of the funds of the institution. The chapel is seated for
720; but 300 more seats would be required to meet the wants of
the population. For several months in summer, especially when
the village hs filled with sea-bathers, the want of church accommo-
dation is very painfully felt. No manse, glebe, or endowment of
any kind is attached to this church. The Rev. David Davidson
is the present incumbent.


