
                   GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.                       71

incorporated with Fifeshire, and at the period when the disjunc-
tion took place, it comprised only the parishes of Kinross, Orwell,
and Portmoak; but in the year 1685, the King and estates in
Parliament, in consideration of the smallness of the county, added
Cleish, Tulliebole, and some lands lying in Pertshire. These
constituted the county or sheriffdom of Kinross., But although
separated from Fife, same Sheriff-depute was placed over both,
in the same way as one was placed over Stirling and Clackman-
nan. This state of matters continued till the year 1807, when the
counties of Clackmannan and Kinross were united into one She-
riffdom.-Kinross-shire at present comprehends only four entire
parishes, with portions of three others, which will be noticed un-
der the county of Perth, to which they chiefly belong.
    The greater part of this small territory is dry, resting on a sharp
gravel, intermingled with small portions of clayey loam, and a good
deal of it is of a moorish quality. The climate, though cold and wet,
owing to the general elevation of the district, has been much improv-
ed by an extensive system of drainage, and is upon the whole consi-
dered healthy,-the people being vigorous and subject to few ma-
ladies. Indeed, the whole county till a very recent period was
wild and barren, which circumstance has been attributed to the
local peculiarity of the district being divided into small farms-al-
most every single farm being a separate property, and generally
possessed by its owner. Thus the number of small proprietors are
greater here in proportion to the size of the district than elsewhere.
These farms were feued out chiefly about the end of the seven
teenth or beginning of the last century for a feu-duty. "The
marches of the various farms," it is stated in Chambers' Gazetteer,
"not having been well defined, and being distracted by the practice
of run-rig, it was long before the county manifested very active
signs of improvement. Within the recollection of persons of mid-
dle life, few districts were worse cultivated or less profitable than
Kinross-shire; but various circumstances, among which is includ-
ed the good example shown by neighbours, ultimately induced a
spirited change, and now, from less to more,the agriculture, the
mode of draining, enclosing, and planting can vie with those of
Fife, or most other places." The whole productive land is about
four-fifths of the whole county, and when lot is on leases generally
from fourteen to twenty-one years, the rent for the most part being
a fixed annual sum. The size of the farms vary from 50 to 300
acres-the corn crops being oats and barley, though occasionally


