
                           NORTH BERWICK.                 343

poor on ordinary Sundays at the church are almost annihilated
among the tenantry, and well nigh extinct among all but the higher
classes, whose contributions are chiefly in silver. Such a change
is, in a variety of views, to be regretted very seriously.
   There are two permanent benefactions to the poor of this
parish. The one is a mortification from Alexander Home of
North Berwick, conveyed through Sir John Home, his executor,
of 3300 merks, to the minister, elders, and deacons of the parish;
the interest of which sum to be annually distributed by them among
the poor. The kirk-session were, on a bond for this sum, duly in-
feofed in 1710 on the Abbey lands of the barony of North Ber-
wick, by Lord President Dalrymple, and his eldest son, Sir Ro-
bert Dalrymple of Castleton; which bond is among the records of
the kirk-session.-The other is the conjunct sum of L. 450, a later
mortification usually styled the Edwin Fund, in reference to the
benevolent source whence it originated. This sum was granted in
1771 to the poor inhabitants of the town and barony of North Ber-
wick, in two bonds, one for L. 150, by Sir Hew Dalrymple, Bart.
and the other for L. 300, by Charles Dalrymple, Esq. his brother,
-the interest of which sum to be paid annually to the minister, el-
ders, and magistrates of the parish and burgh, by the heir of the
estate of North Berwick, in whom is vested the nomination of the
individuals to receive the charity.
   Prison.-There is a prison conjoined with the Town-Council
Hall, consisting of one apartment for debtors, and two apartments
beneath for criminal offenders, in tolerable condition, and suppos-
ed to be quite secure. No prisoner last year. The burgh officer
is the jailor, who in his own person embodies the entire police of
the burgh and parish of North Berwick.
   Fairs.-There are two annual fairs,-one in the month of June,
and the other in November, neither of any moment.
   Inns, Alehouses.-It is to be recorded with deep regret, that,
within the burgh of North Berwick, the system of free trade in
the sale of spirits prevails, and the multiplication of licenses has
reached an appalling extent. There are thirteen public-houses, to a
population perhaps of 650, affording a public-house to every fifty
persons, men, women, and children. Of these public-houses no
fewer than eight are under the management of as many widows,
whose authority over their visitors cannot be extreme. It is
earnestly to be desired and hoped, that the magistrates will soon
be deeply and duly impressed with the serious evils of their most


