
	                     KINGHORN.                             813

	one and a-half mile to the eastward, belonging to the proprietors
	of St Leonard's mill, which enables them to prepare the thread
	and yarn in a purely white state for the market.  These gentle-
	men employ daily at their mill 200 females, 54 males, flax-dres-
	sers, 21 mechanics, or machine-makers, and 12 males who
	superintend and have other duties in the mill.  About 70 are em-
	ployed in the bleaching of yarn.  There are two other mills in
	Kinghorn, at both of which are employed about 130 females, and
	50 males, including 36 flax-dressers.  There are thus connected
	with the spinning mills, 330 females; 137 males; 70 of both sexes
	in the bleaching department; total, 537.
	   Girls above fourteen years of age, who are spinners, earn from
	4s. to 6s. per week.  Mechanics have from 12s. to L.1 per week.
           Flax-dressers are paid by the hundred-weight of dressed flax;
	they get a fair price for their work, and can make a good livelihood
	fully employed.
	   Navigation.-Except the steamers which ply on the ferry, be-
	tween Pettycur and Newhaven, and a few half-tide boats of forty
	tons burden, which carry goods and cattle to and from Leith, there
	is only one-a coaster of about seventy tons burden, which now
	belongs to Kinghorn.  Occasionally vessels of considerable bur-	
	den land their flax cargoes from the Baltic, and other places at	
	Pettycur harbour, and a few cargoes of potatoes are shipped an-
	nually there for the London market.  There are a few small boats
	belonging to individuals in the town, which, during the summer
	months, are employed in fishing.
		                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   There is no town in the parish except the burgh of Kinghorn.
	The population, as has been already stated, is 1555.  Its trade has
	been diversified and fluctuating.  While basking under the smiles
	of royalty it had an ample business in supplying the necessary ar-
	articles for Court, and gentry, with their retainers.  But when
	Glammis Castle began to decay, and the old nobility and gentry 
	died out, or ceased to live upon their properties in the parish, a
	great change came over the affairs of Kinghorn.  Still it pos-
	sessed a constant and advantageous traffic from the proximity of
	Pettycur, which was the principal ferry between Fife and Mid-Lo-
	thian.  In the absence of steamers and stage-coaches, the town
	was usually crowded with passengers, waiting for fair weather to
	allow the boats to set sail.  The whole town on these occasions
	

