
400                         ARGYLESHIRE.

such whisky is recommended to persons afflicted with gravel.
There are no flowering plants here, which are not to be met on the
neighbouring coast.  Moss roses abound on every hillock.  Tangle
is cast on the shores of this island, and is extensively used as ma-
nure for the land. The other species of fuci or sea-weed, cnm-
monly used for making kelp, are also applied to the land as manure,
since the low price of that article will no longer pay for the labour
of making it. The Ulva latissima, which makes a pickle called
" laver," is found on the coast, as well as the various species of
Chondria that constitute what is called Carigean moss.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners. - The land-owners of this parish are, Captain
Alexander M'Neill, younger of Collonsay, and the lady of the
Honourable A. H. Morton and Miss Macdonald Lockhart, daughters
of the late Sir Charles Macdonald Lockhart, Bart., of Lee
and Carnwath.  The parish is divided into thirty-one merk-lands.
Of these, twenty-five belong to the former, and six, of which Cara
forms one, to the latter, who have also a large and valuable estate
called Largie in the neigbbouring parish of Killean.
   Parochial Registers.-No register of births, marriages, and
deaths of an earlier date than 1793 is to be found.  Since that period
the resister has been kept with tolerable regularity, except in
the years 1824 and 1825, in which years the register of births
is incomplete.  There is a separate book for keeping an account
of money received for the poor, as well as of disbursements; and
a third volume for recording the proceedings of the kirk-session in
matters of discipline.
   Antiquities.-About the middle of Gigha is Dun Chifie, Keefie's
hill, which appears to have been a strong fortification.  Tradition says
that Keefie, the King of Lochlin's son, who occupied this strong-
hold, was killed there by Diarmid, one of Fingal's heroes, with whose
wife he had run away. At the north end of the island, on the top
of a hill, there is a circular heap of stones, called " Carn-na-faire,"
or watch cairn.  As the name implies, it must have been intended
to give the alarm incase of invasion, for it commands a very extensive
view of the sea.  There is a signal post upon it now to intimate
when it is wished that the Islay steamer, when passing either
way, should come near the island for passengers.
   The walls of the old church, in which there is a stone font,
stand in the middle of the burying ground, about a mile from


