
                            ELIE.                  291

addition, in which he has had to contend with the agents of the
principal heritor, who, although aware of the existing necessity,
and at one time offering of their own accord a much more splen-
did one than he desired, have now, for some cause or other, given
the proposal a decided opposition.  Still, as the manse was
originally built without the sanction, and even without the know-
ledge, of the Presbytery, being consequently, in the proper sense
of the word, no manse at all, and as the necessary steps have
been taken to obtain what is wanted, without any protest or inter-
dict on their part, he doubts not that he will secceed in attain-
ing in object.  The glebe consists of 5 acres; and is let at
L.5, 15s. 6d. per acre--the value in all being thus L.28, 17s 6d.
There is no grass glebe, though it is believed that the right to
one exists; but it has never yet been prosecuted.
     The stipend is one of those which recieve aid from Government.
It consists of 9 chalders 6 bolls of grain-- of which there are 3
chalders of wheat, and 4 and 2 bolls of oats, the remainder being
pretty equally divided betwixt barley and peas and beans.  The
Government allowance is L.12, 14s. 8d.  But even when all is ad-
ded together, the stipend of the present incumbent, since he suc-
ceeded to the living, has, on an average, been L.21 below the
minimum.  he believes that last year, owing to the fiars of wheat,
in Fife being so low, he may boast of having had the  smallest
stipend in Scotland.
     There is no dissenting  place of workship in the parish.  The
number of individuals who are members of any dissenting congre-
gation does not, it is believed, exceed 12.  Certainly there are not
more than 15; and these are dividedamong perhaps half a dozen
different sects.  There may also be a few who attend the mini-
strations of dissenters, without being jouned in communion with
them.  Both members, however, and occasional hearers, taken to-
gether, cannot be more than from 20 to 25.  We find also two
or three who boast of attending no place of religious worship: but
all the rest either are, or profess to be, attached to the Establish-
ed Church.  Divine service is always well attended.  The num-
ber of communicants varies from 330 to 380.  The collections at
the church door average L.30 per annum.  We have no Societies
for religious purposes: but  an annual collection is made for one
or other of the objects which the General Assembly has taken under
its patronage.  the average amount may be about L.10. Sir W.
C. Anstruther is patron of the parish.
     Education.--There are what may be called three schools in the


