
142                      ARGYLESHIRE.

honour of their high descent.  By them was fotigbt itt Loch,
Lochy the celebrated battle of Blar Leine, in which Ranald the
stranger, the least heir, but repudiated by the tribe, was slain, and
his brother, Ian Muidartach, established in his place.  In the pos-
session of the descendants of the last, the whole lands, with the
exception of a few small portions, remained, until not many years
ago, when the estates of Moidart and Arasaig were sold by the
present chief, Ranald George MacDonaldof Clanranald.  Still
extensive tracts remain in possession of cadets of that house.  In
1715, ihe inhabitants of this part of the aristi followed their
chief in the insurrection of that year.  His death, at the battle of
Sheriffimuir, is honourably recorded in Sir Walter Scott's Tales
of a Grandfather.   All that is known of this chieftain attaches a
romantic interest to his character.   He is said to have been train-
ed to arms in the wars of the continent, and once that he lay
wounded on a field of battle, to have been conveyed thence, and
carefully attended, until big recovery, by an Italian lady, named
Penelope, whom he afterwards married, and who accompanied him
to Moidart.  That he was a disinterested, zealous, and gallant ad-
herent of the Stuart family, is unquestionable.  He stormed and
retook his castle of Eilein Terim from the troops of the Govern-
ment, and, rather than it should prove of use to the enemy in sub-
jugating the country, this ancient stronghold of his race was, by
his orders, destruyed by fire.  The warlike character of the people,
their well-known attachment to his family, and the almost inacces-
sible nature of their country, probably induced Prince Charles Ed-
ward to select it for the commencement of the insurrection which
excited such terrific interest in 1745 and 1746.  This selection,
whatever may be thought of the prudence of the undertaking it-
self, was made with judgment.  In truth, the very local scenery
was appropriate.  In the dusky recesses of these mountains, the
footsteps of the arming clans were unheard ; their mustering un-
noted.  Glenfinnan, where, in a few days after his landing, Charles
gave his banner to the winds, was of all places the best fitted for
the purpose.  It is a plain at the east end of Lochshiel, encircled
by rugged mountains.  Upon this plain, as on a common centre,
open the mouths of several wild and shadowy glens, through which
the first squadrons of the Highland army marched to the ren-
dezvous.  Through these glens also, notice of the event was trans-
mitted to all the tribes of the north; and those whom prudence
might yet cause to linger, roused to arms by the stirring announce-


