
     Statistical Account

it consist of 80 houses, and 243 inhabitants; and there are
7 large, and 9 small boats in it*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The large boats in the three towns last mentioned are about 10 tons,
and the small ones 4.  The original cost of one of the former, including
sail, mast, oars, and lines, is about L. 24; and of the latter, half that sum.
In consideration of receiving a specified rent annually, the proprietor al-
lows L. 11 to every crew to purchase a new boat, which is understood to
last 7 years, called here the long run.  Then a mutual contract is entered
into between the proprietor and the crew, wherein he engages to secure
them in the properly of the boat; and they bind themselves to serve in it,
and pay their rent during the term of 7 years.  If the boat is judged unfit
for sea before the end of the lease, and application is made for a new
one, a deduction is made for every deficient year of the boat's run to the
extent of L. 1, 15 s. which goes in part of the L. 11 for another boat. In
the different towns the rent is different.  The average rent of each boat is
L. 5: 3: 3, and 6 dried cod or hug.  The small boats are the property of
the fishers, and pay no rent.  As they have no small boats at Buckie, the
large ones are used at all leasons.  In the other towns, the large ones are
used from the end of February to the end of July; and the small ones at
all other times.
   Every large boat has a crew of 6 men and a boy.  Each man has a line
containing from 100 to 120 books, at the distance of 7 fathoms from one
another.  The boy's line is half the length of man's.  From the end of
February, when the season for great fish begins, till the end of April, they
seldom go above 16 leagues from the shore in quest of cod and 1mg.  From
the beginning of May they launch out to the distance of 23 leagues in
search of skate.  They are found in greatest number in a particular place
of Caithness called the Skate-hole.  Cod, lmg, skate, halibut, and a few
tusk, are the only great fish caught in the Moray frith.  Cod, ling, and
tusk are salted in pits on the beach, as they are caught and dried on the
rocks for sale.  Skate is dried without salt, and the balibut is used fresh.
Of these, ling and skate are the most valuable to the fishers, because their
livers yield much oil.  Cod, ling, and tusk are in season from May to Fe-
bruary; skate is good through the whole year, and halibut in highest
slate of perfection about July.  About the end of June, the dry fish is
flowed in boats, navigated by 4 or 5 men, and carried to market in the
towns along the coast of Fife and the frith of Forth.  The large boat will


