
                            KELTON.                          155

place, which is now covered by the great military road, the Roman
army constructed a causeway through the marsh, which have gave to
Castle Douglas, in its infant days, the name of "Causeway-end,"
which towards the close of last century, was changed for "Carlin-
wark." About this place many horse shoes were found sunk deep
in the mud, of a form altogether different from those now in use.
One of them is in the possession of Mr Train. It consists of one
solid piece of iron, not made to go round the edge of the hoof,
but to cover the whole foot. On the inside, especially towards
the heel, it is hollowed so as not to press upon the soft part of the
foot. No perforations for the nails are discoverable--they appear
to be filled with rust. It somewhat resembles the balls or lumps
of ice formed by horses feet in winter. Four such amorphous
pieces of iron must have formed no small encumbrance to a horse;
for although a good deal worn in front, this shoe still weighs about
six pounds. In several parts of the loch canoes were found, ex-
actly similar to those discovered in Merton-mere, Lochar moss,
and the Carron. They appear to have been hollowed out of one
tree, by the action of fire, after the manner of the American In-
dians. These are obviously Celtic remains of a very early date.
Several very large stag heads, and a capacious brass pan were also
found in the loch; and near its south-west corner a Roman dag-
ger 22 inches long, and plated with gold, was fished up in a bag of
marl. It is in the possession of Mrs Colonel Gordon of Greenlaw.
By the withdrawing of the water, one of the two large islands--
that to the north--was made a peninsula, but it still retains the
name of "the Isle." On the south, or Fir Isle, the remains of
an iron forge may still be seen; and it is said that Edward I when
he penetrated into Galloway in the year 1300, made use of this
island as a place for shoeing his cavalry horses. Around this isle
there has been a stone rampart, and a road led from it to the land
on the north-east, which was formed of stones secured by strong
piles of oak. Close to the side of the island, this road had a deep
opening, in which large beams of wood, the remains of a draw-
bridge, are still visible under the water. The road is now a marsh,
having been destroyed by the action of the water; and here we
have an additional confirmation of what is stated above respecting
the original depth and extent of the loch; for with the six feet of
water that were drained off in 1765, added to what the loch at
present contains, the construction of these works would have been
impracticable.


