
     of Birse.

   Property and Valued Rent.-The landed property of the
parish (which was church-lands) has undergone several
changes.  Gordon of Cluny was once proprietor of up-
wards of two-thirds of the parish.  From time to time he
sold a town, or a part of a town, as a purchaser offered,
and as he had occasion for money.  This gave rise to a
great number of proprietors in Birse, till at last the parish

<FOOTNOTE>

ing on their own account, 1 s 8 d. or 2 s. the week; by the latter, a little
more.  If working on account of a master, they often earn less.  At three
stations in the parish, wool is given out, and the stockings taken in,
monthly, by the Aberdeen manufacturers, or their servants.  At several
stations, lint is given out, and the yarn received, by one appointed by the
manufacturer.  In all soil, of weather, the hosier keeps his day punctual-
ly, and the poor are sure of what they have earned.  By the industry of
the wife and his own labour, if in health, the cottager is enabled to bring
up his family; and many active women, either by the above employ-
ments, or by making, during the summer, a piece of coarse woollen cloth
for sale, greatly aid their husbands in making up the rent of then posses-
sions.  The establishment of these factories, as the country people call
them, have been a great blessing to the country in general.

   Price of Provisions-This is much regulated by the Aberdeen mar-
ket.  When meal, upon which the people chiefly subsist, is low priced
there, it soon becomes so here.  Grain, in general, is double the price of
what it was 30 years ago.  During the years 1790 and 1791, meal sold
from 13 s, to 17 s, the boll; (9 stone Amsterdam is often given for the
boll); bear, from 15 s. to 19 s. the boll.  Beef and mutton are sometimes
purchased from the Aberdeen market, and sometimes, procured by feeding
at home.  After counting every cost, we have meat cheaper, than when
brought from Aberdeen.  Butter sells from 6 d. to 8 d. the pound; cheese,
from 5 s. to 6 s. the stone.  The pound here consists of 28 ounces Avoir-
dupois.  Eggs, formerly at 1 d. the 14, now sell at 1 1/2 d. and 2 d. the 12;
a chicken, 2 d. and a hen from 6 d. to 8 d.; salmon, in its season, about
3 d. the pound; any other fort of fish is scarce and dear.  The necessaries
of life are at least one half dearer, and articles of luxury more than double,
within these 40 years.  This is a circumstance greatly against such as
have stationary livings.  It must be confessed, that what were articles of
luxury in our hardy forefathers day, are now become articles that are
reckoned necessaries, as tea.


