
568                      ARGYLESHIRE

of the frith or channel separating the -Island of Bute from Argyle-
shire. The villarre of Dunoon lies about 31 miles west-northwest
from Glasgow, and,about 10 miles, more directly westward, from
Greenock.
    Name.-In the Gaelic language, the word 4oidh signifies a
stran.qer or guest.- its- plural is Aoidhea ; and there is no etymolo.
gical codjecture on the subject perhaps more natural than to sup.
pose, that the name Dunoon originated in its being denominated
thus in Gaelic, Dun-nan-aoidhean, or Dun-avidhean, the Dun or
place resorted to by strangers or guests. Its modern pronunciation
in Gaelic does not, at least, contradict this theory, which also receives
additional confirmation, if it be thought, that, in such ancient times,
the region of Argyle was considered worthy of being subjected to
hostile or predatory incursions from the lowland regions opposite;
and that in those times, whatever was the fencible force on 11 the I-ligh-
land side" of the frith would be here assembled, to ward off such
attacks, or to watch them. It may be also observed, that the ob-
ligation of maintaining a ferry at this point across the Frith of
Clyde, forms a part of the feudal tenure by which a neighbouring
proprietor holds certain of his lands. Another theory on this
point, and only confirmatory of this one, will be offered when the
antiquities of the parish come under review.
    As to the name Kilmun; it must be left to controversial etymo-
logists to determine whether the word Kil be merel the Latin
Cella, or a primitive Celtic term signifying death or the grave.
There is no doubt, that, from an early period, the place now call-
ed Kilmun had its place of worship and of burial. The writer
professes no such acquaintance with the Romish calendar of saints
as would entitle him to deny that t St Alund, Munde, or even
Mun may have bad even Itere 11 a local habitation and a name",Iong
before the proprietor of a Glasgow steamer, connected with the
place, made'bis vessel to bear the name St Mun. The existence
of the saint is considered doubtful : and, should it even be proven,
it does not by any means follow that his existence, or even his
merits, can establish the real significatioi) of the name. In Gao-
lie, it is invariably pronounced Cill-a'-mhuna. Muna, or Munadh,
in that language signifies instruction or teaching, and, by common
figure of speech, learning; and the word Muin, to teaeb or in-
struct, is still used in versions of our Gaelic psalmody. Cill-a'-
mhuna, therefore, anglice, Kilmun, latini, Cella doctrinarum, the
sacred place of learning or instruction, may be considered the real
signification of this name.


