
122                  DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of which the Spur Inn was built, about 70 years ago.  A trial has
been made of some of this clay near the town-head for bricks, but
it has not answered so well, and perhaps there may be some differ-
ence in the quality, or defect in the trials last made.
  One accommodation is much wanted still by farmers, a cool
shade in hot weather for cattle and sheep, in some lofty situation,
and at the same time quite accessible.  Plantations collect and mul-
tiply flies, instead of protecting the stocks; lofty and shady trees
are much preferable.  Water is of use to black cattle against ver-
min, if deep enough for the tip of their tails to reach it.  In some
cases a moveable shed might be of great advantage.  Sheep are
commonly sent in hot weather to higher cooler pastures.
  It may be remarked, that many substances might be applied to
useful purposes, but are entirely neglected.  The bark of the alder
tree dyes black, and the wood of it burnt into charcoal makes the
finest gunpowder.   These are only mentioned as mere samples of
that callous inattention and negligence, by which advantages are
thrown away.  The dye-stuff mosses which are to be found in
abundance on the rocks and trees, are equally neglected, though
in a country less informed (in the remote Highlands) the use of
these, and of alder-bark, and of heath, and other native plants, has
been known and attended to from a remote period of time.
  The best walks for visitants at Moffat at present are in the dry
and well-kept public roads, but it would be a great additional com-
fort for them if walks were made up to the heights, and through
the plantations, and so as to give walkers an opportunity of visit-
ing the well in that direction, but not to allow of persons on horse-
back taking these walks.
  For the purpose of recreation, an occasional visit may be made
to the old caves at Newton, cut out of the sandstone rock, and
thence to the Hartfell Spa, the path leading to which is rude
and romantic.  A pic-nic party may have moderate exercise in
another direction to Earl Randolph's Tower, taking refreshments
on the moat opposite to it on Coatshill.  A similar moderate de-
gree of exercise would bring the party into Craigieburn wood,
where there is a charming glade-for a place of refreshment. The
Bell Craig Rock and Limn deserve and will reward a similar visit.
Any of these moderate excurrions may be accomplished betwixt
the hours of breakfast and dinner.  But if more distant places are
deemed proper to be visited, the Gray Mare's Tail, after a fall of
rain, will repay the trouble of a visit, or, if the visitor be inclined to


