
446                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

and Daltulich are rich and incumbent on a species of schistus, and
though with a high and northern exposure, bear luxuriant crops.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-The geology of the parish is father
monotonous. The whole of the level track of country to the north
of the Grampians consists of granite, gneiss, old red-sandstone,
lias, unconsolidated beds of clay and gravel, &c. Though gra-
nite belongs to no particular ore in the north of Scotland, it hap-
pens to underlie all the other rocks. Gneiss is next in order of
succession, and then old red sandstone. When granite appears
at the surface, it forms the loftiest mountains; gneiss, the next most
elevated,-while the old red sandstone seldom rises higher than
gently sloping ridges. This parish does not extend so far south
as the line where the granite appears. The southern localities
comprehend part of a longitudinal range of gneiss strata, which
present a high degree of inclination. This range is, for the most
part, covered with heath, and to the south of it, bare granite crags
may be seen bounding the prospect, while to the north, old red
sandstone may be traced under woods and cultivated fields. The
ridge of gneiss to which we have referred, constitutes the rising
lands to the south of the parish, and consists principally of granite
worn down by water and deposited in lamina at the bottom of the
ocean. Its elevation was evidently the result of the upbursting of the
southern masses of granite, either in a fluid or solid state; but no,
such mode of elevation will explain the present position of the
sandstone, which must have been deposited after the appearance
of the primary hills above the sea, as is evident from the rolled
fragments which it contains; accordingly, we find the sandstone
lying unconformably on the gneiss-the opposite of the position
of the gneiss in relation to the granite. Immediately to the north
of the gneiss ridge, is the valley of the River Nairn, the southern
side of which is very remarkable for what are termed parallel roads.
The term is inapplicable to the terraces in this locality, for they
are nowhere perfectly parallel in the lines of their longitudinal ex-
tension, neither are they horizontal-a fact which, with many
others, shows that they were not left by retiring waters, but heav-
ed from below by violent action. They run along the flanks of
the ridge of gneiss previously adverted to, at an altitude of 500 or
600 feet above the Moray Frith, and have no corresponding marks
on the north side of the valley, which is comparatively low. They
frequently pass into one another, merge into hillocks and waved
tracks of gravel, and present other numerous appearances which


