
                       PARISH OF WESTERKIRK.

              PRESBYTERY OF LANGHOLM, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

                    THE REV. JAMES GREEN, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--This parish has been supposed to take its name from
the manor of Westerker, which, by modern appellation, is now called
Westerkirk. This name is derived from the British Caer, or fort-
let, which stood near the hamlet of Westerker, upon the Megget
water, a little above its confluence with the Esk. In Scoto-Saxon
times, "this strength" was named Wester Caer or Ker, to distin-
guish it from the eastern Caer which is still visible on the farm of
Elfgill. There is another supposition that Westerkirk derived its
name from being the most westerly of the five kirks of Eskdale.
The present parish of Eskdalemuir formed part of Westerkirk, till
1703, when it was erected into a separate parish.
	Boundaries.--The parish is bounded, on the west, by Eskdale-
muir; on the east, by Ewes; and on the south by Langholm and
Tundergarth. In length, it extends nearly 10 miles, and in breadth
from 5 to 6. It contains 27,307 Scotch acres, or 381/2 square
miles. The valuation of the parish is 10,808 werks Scotch, or
L. 2570, 17s.
	Topographical Appearances.--The appearance is hilly, with the
exception of the narrow vale along the Esk, which runs through the
parish. Some of the hills are covered with heath; but in gene-
ral they are green and dry, and afford excellent pasture for sheep.
	Soil.--The soil is various; the low grounds along the banks of
the Esk consist of a light loam, and produce abundant crops both
of wheat, barley, and oats. The soil on the rising ground is a deep
strong loam, with an intermixture opf stones. A considerable quan-
tity of moss is found upon the top of many of the hills.
	The climate, though somewhat keen and moist, is by no means
unhealthy, amd the people live to a good old age. The prevalent
complaints are consumption and rheumatism, the latter brought on
by the sudden alternation from heat to cold.


