
                         COLLESSIE.      33

Extensive improvements have also been	effected upon the flat
lands of Rankeilour-Makgill, and Pitlair. A quantity of ground
has here been reclaimed from marsh, by	the spirited improve-
ments of the late Charles Maitland, Esq. of R-ankeilour. In ac-
complishing this, be deepened the water of Keilour, to give greater
descent to his drainage. So beneficial has been the effect of his
operations in this neigbbourhood, that it is difficult now to believe
the tradition, that in 1745, when the horses at Rankeilour were
seized for the use of the Pretender's army, those of Pitlair remain-
ed secure, the Highlanders being unwilling to approach it by the
single road which led to it through the surrounding morass. In
connection with these improvements, Mr Maitland worked marl
on Pitlair, to the extent of 83,010 bolls fine, and 28,721 black
do., which he used largely for his own estate, and sold besides to
the surrounding landlords, to the value of L. 146 1, I Is. Oid.
Draining of Rossie Loch, 4-c-But the most remarkable of
all the improvements effected in the parish was the draining of
Rossie Loch.The first attempt to accomplish this object was
made in 1740.Notwithstanding the means then used, however,
the ground wasstill left a kind of morass in summer, and almost
covered with water in winter. It continued in this unsatisfac-
tory state till 1805-1806, when Captain Cheape, the present
proprietor, deepened, and extended the drains, leading off the
water to the Eden, at an expense of L. 3000. The land was
thus brought into a comparatively dry state. About 250 acres
of it have been made capable of producing good crops ofgrain,
although about 40 acres in the middle of the former loch still
remain marshy, producing only natural hay. In carrying for-
ward his operations, Captain Cheape found it very advantageous
occasionally to pasture the reclaimed fields with sheep. They
consolidated the land, and prepared it for the plough, without
breaking the surface, as heavier cattle must have done. The ex-
tensive drainage which has been effected by the active and intel-
ligent proprietor of Rossie has at once improved and beautified
his estate, and greatly promoted the healthfulness of the neigh-
bourhood.
The system of draining has not only been successfully employ-
ed upon the lands of Rossie, but upon the estate of Kinlech and
other adjacent districts. It might be suggested, however, that,
although little remains to be done in reclaiming, much might still
FIFE.                                  C


