
                       PARISH OF

              ABERCROMBIE OR ST MONAN'S.

         PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

             THE REV. ROBERT SWAN, MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATVRAL HISTORY.
From authentic documents refered to by Sir John Connell in
his History of Tithes, Abercrombie or Abercrumbin appears to
have been a parish so far back as, 1 174.
Ancient and modern name of the parish.- From that time (and
it cannot be ascertained bow long before) till 1646, the original
name was uniformly and exclusively given to it. Towards the
close of that year, an addition which it then received, quoad sacra,
induced upon it a twofold and less determinate designation. The
addition alluded to was the barony of St Monan's,* th,6 property
There were several concurring circ tances which recommended and facilitated
umsl
this annexation. The parish church of Abercrombie, of great but unknown antiqui-
ty, had become so ruinous as to be totally unfit for a place of worship. In the barZny
Of St Monan's, there stood invitingly the unoccupied chapel which went by the same
name, greatly dilapidated in some of its compartments: yet with. so much of it en-
tire, and under cover, as to make it serviceable (if such a arrangement could be ef -
fected) as a parish church for the people of Abercrombie, being nearer to the bulk
of the inhabitants than their original place of worship, while it was also much nearer
than their own parish church, to such inhabitants of Kilconquhar, as were situated
in the south-eastern parts of the parish, and adjoining to Abercrombie. In these
circumstances, the idea appears to have been taken up by Sir James Sandilands of St
Monans, and cordially entered into by the Preshytery. ;f havina his barony, with its
readi made church, disjoined from the parish of Kilconqutar, sn'dannexed to that of
Abercrombie, in which there was now no church that could wcommodate the pa,
rishioners. The other great heritor, my Lord Abercrombie. also a Sandilands and,
Ilear relation of Sir James, saw this to -be a desirable arrangement. It removed no
doul)t his usual place of worship to, a considerably greater distance than before'; but
it was obtaining'. substantial edifice for that purpose, and abandoning one inconveni-
Ontly situated for the parish at large, and hastening to ruin. . I
It was expressly stipulated by the competent parties, that the arrangement (brief-
ly referred t c") should be without prejudice to the minister of Ki"nquhar, who was
to draw as hitherto the tein& of St Monan's barony; and the minister of Abercrombie
Was, in conseauence of a contract betwixt Sif Jam-es Sandilands and him, to receive
200 meirks to his parochial duties, which the foresaid annex-
there is the followinx entry in the F'resbytery-book,
appointed to be written LD the Commissioners for
mending the uniting of-Abercrombie and St Mo-
pitz.                                               y


