
548                            AYRSHIRE.

increase of produce and price fell totally to the tenant if the lease
were long and the landlord was not benefited at all. Now that the
prices are steady, an extension of the lease from eighteen to twenty-
four years might be advantageous to both parties. The tenant
would have more scope for improvements. Instead of impoverish-
ing the land by taking as much out, and putting as little in as pos-
sible, it would be for his own profit to sustain the quality of the soil.
The landlord whilst receiving his rent would have the value of his
property maintained, if not increased. In former times, when leases
were very long, and rents very moderate, few realized any thing;
they had no spur to improvement or diligence; a little trouble en-
abling them to sustain their families and pay their rents, they grew
no, better, the land remained as it was, and the landlord knew not
and received not, the value of his soil.
	A better state of things, we conceive, now exists while the rent
is not too high, it is high enough to call forth the talents of the
cultivator, that he may be enabled to maintain his rank in society,
and keep his credit witb the proprietor.
	New modes of procedure are adopted, invention is at work, and
he is the best tenant who raises the most food on the smallest space.
	Much difference of opinion exists regarding the best size of
farms, which in the parish vary from 50 to 200 acres; some hold-
ing, that they should be all small, others that two or three small
ones should be united so as to form a larger farm, and allow
some scope for enterprise and improvement. We hold neither opi-
nion exclusively, but think that they should be of all sizes, from 60
to 200 acres. Then would there be a fair field for men of skill and
energy, whatever might be the amount of their capital; various
ranks would be admitted to share in the contest, for contest it has
become and various no doubt would be the results; as different as
tbe spirits and the soils engaged in the work.
	Farm-Buildings.--Domestic comfort is an object all men have
in view, and where this is not contemplated by the landlord, the ex-
ertions of the tenant are not likely either to be spirited or success-
ful. Nothing, contributes to it more directly than substantial and
convenient houses. In the old Statistical Account, heavy com-
plaints are made against the negligence of proprietors in this re-
spect; but since then, the ground of remonstrance has been almost
universally removed, and good substantial farm-steadings are ever-
where to be met with,--an improvement which increases the value
of an estate in a ratio much greater than the expense incurred. In


