

                       KILSYTH                                145

though harder, yet valuable, and adapted for the oven and smith's
furnace or forge. A great proportion of the coal at Balcastle and
in the West Barony generally, is charred, and carried away for fur-
naces.
   Hydrography.-The two rivers which form the boundaries of
the parish on the north and south, are the Carron and the Kel-
vin. The former, as its name imports, is a winding stream, espe-
cially so far as it bounds this parish. The bonny links of Car-
ron water are celebrated. For three miles, it runs in a somewhat
slow and serpentine course, through an extensive meadow. It
is a delightful trouting stream, and is much frequented by anglers,
for many miles round.
   The Kelvin, taking its rise near the House of Kelvinhead, on
the land of Ruchill, in a kind of marsh, descends in a very small rill
to the low ground on the south, near to the great canal, where it
soon receives an accession from a part of Shawendd burn, and,
farther west, from the Garrel and Ebroch. It moves slowly
through the valley westward, upwards for four miles in this parish.
At Inchbelly, where it leaves us, it becomes a beautiful stream; its
banks green, smooth, and wooded. Till the year 1792, it was chok-
ed up with flags, rushes, and water-lilies, frequently overflowing the
adjacent valley, and giving it the appearance of a great lake. The
late Sir Archibald Edmonstone, Bart. of Duntreath, grandfather
to the present proprietor of the same name, who purchased the es-
tate of Kilsyth in 1784, proprietor of the lands to the north of the
Kelvin for about four miles, projected and carried into effect a
great improvement, under the inspection, and according to the plan,
of Robert Whitworth, engineer,-by straightening, deepening, and
embanking, as described in the former Account. The sloping
green bank, with its skirting of wood near Inchterff and Inchbelly,
was formed under the eye, and at the expense of the late Captain
Lennox of Woodhead. It must be acknowledged that the river,
so far as this parish can claim it, is the reverse of picturesque,
having the appearance of a small canal; but the useful must here
be regarded as the beautiful, or, at any rate, as more than an equi-
valent. As the Kelvin proceeds and approaches Glasgow, it be-
comes a fine stream; the aqueduct over it, and the dock where the
canal branches off to Bowling Bay, have given it a celebrity, of
which, at its rise, and while it bounds this parish, it gave no pro-
mise. Both our rivers, Carron and Kelvin, are known to song,
   STIRLING                      K



