
166                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

yearly for charitable purposes, may be (exclusive of our collections
and funds for the regular poor) from L.6 to L.8.
        Education.-There are three public schools in the parish, one
(the parochial school) situated near the church,-another at Edge-
moor, on the west side of the parish, and another on the northmost
verge of the parish, at Cogrieburn bridge. In the parochial school,
besides the usual branches, Latin, Greek, and French are taught:
in the other two, reading, writing, and accounts only. The salary
of the parochial teacher was the maximum under the old act, but
he being for some years in a state of insanity, and enjoying the
whole salary with the addition of L.3 out of the Aitken mortifica-
tion, in lieu of a house, in virtue of agreement between his le-
gal guardians and the heritors, and sanctioned by the presbytery
of Lochmaben, it has hitherto been considered inexpedient to make
any further arrangement. An interim, teacher, appointed by the
heritors, conducts, in his absence, the business of the school, and
is remunerated by the fees and Candlemas offerings, with L. 5,
12s. from the Aitken fund, which may, in all, amount to about
L. 27 per annum. The teacher at Edgemoor has a salary of L.14
a-year from Mr, Hope Johnstone, which, with the school fees, may
make his income about L. 24 yearly. The teacher at Cogrieburn
bridge receives no salary, but is dependent upon the fees of teach-
ing and the Candlemas offerings alone. His income may be esti-
mated at from L. 14 to 16 a-year. The parochial teacher posses-
ses the legal accommodations in houses and land. The general
expense of education per annum, for children under twelve years
of age, may be 10s., for those above that age, 12s., and for those
who are taught Latin, Greek, &c. 20s. There are no persons in
the parish above six years of age who cannot both read and write. *
Since the facilities of education have been increased, an evident
improvement has taken place in the morals and general good con-
duct of the parishioners, as is testified by our sessional records, of
discipline, &c.
        Literature.-A parochial library, consisting chiefly of books of
divinity, biography, history, &c. (and from which all novels are

<FOOTNOTE>We have also two Sabbath evening-schools. The one at St Ann's Bridge, and
the other at the church, which meet during the summer months, and are open indis-
criminately, and gratuitously, to children of all classes, who choose to attend. The
average number of scholars at both has for some years past been 125, and there is
reason to believe that these little religious seminaries have been eminently blessed
to promote the spiritual interest of the rising generation amongst us.


