

364                               FIFESHIRE.

their said parish;" I and, accordingly, on Wednesday, 13th October

ollowing, the presbytery did meet at the church, 11 for admission
f Mr Alexander Edward to the function of the ministrie, and they
did adinit him." Notwithstanding the active.oppression of Arch-
bishop Sharpe in Fifeshire for eighteen years, no county in Scot-
land was more zealous for PresbyteriaDism against Episcopacy; and
during that period, according to Wodrow's history, the inhabitants
of 11 Dunyno," for their opposition, were fined in a sum that would
now be equal'to L. 1200 Sterling.
Eminent Men.-John of Fordtin, author of the Scotichronicon,
the oldest Scottish historian, is said to have residdd for a con sider-
able time in this parish,-which is the more probable, that he was
a native of St Andrew's diocese, of which Dunino formed a part.
He spent-much of his time in journeying. He travelled over the
three kingdoms-, in quest of information ; and his history may be
called that of the world, as well as of Scotland.
John Winram, Subprior of St Andrews under the excellent and
comely Lord James Stuart, eldest of the three illegitimate brothers
of Mary Queen of Scots,-after the celibacy of the clergy had
been done away by the establishment of the reformed faith-was
married to the widow of the proprietor of Kinaldy, in this parish.
Both Knox and Buchanan assert, that Mr Winram was appointed
by Cardinal Beaton to preach a sermon In the church of St An-
drews, on occasion of condemning to death the pious Mr Wisbart.
Knox gives notes of the sermon, and Beaton was offended at
Winram treating a heretic more mildly than he thought a heretic
deserved. Buchanan in his history, gives Winram an appropriate
text, which he must have bad from report, as it is not to be found
in Scripture.
Mr James Wood, who, according to the parish record, ,as mi-
Tlister of Dunonow, preached his valedictorie sermon, May 10,
1646," previous to his becoming minister of St Andrews, was one
of the Commissioners who brought over from the continent, King
Charles IL, at the era of the Restoration. Mr Wood is said to
have been the brother of the proprietor of Stravithy.
Land-owners.-The heritors of,the parish are as follows,,in the
-,orders oftheir valued rents: MrDouglas of Duninoand Balcaitbly;
His reflections on the fair part of the creation, arising frorn the marriage of
Kiog' David II. with  Miss Logie, whose dispositions were the counterpart of her
beautiful face,,and handsome person, are very unchivalrous, femina fax Satange,
ram fowns, dulce venenum.11


