
                            FOULDEN.                          263

fallen into total disuse. One of these obsolete games I may par-
ticularize, on account of the singularity of the goals. It was cele-
brated, along with many othem on Fastern's eve. The villagers
were opposed to the inhabitants of the country; a large ball was
tossed into the air midway between the parish church and mill;
and this the former strove to lodge in the church pulpit, and the
latter in the mill-happer. An ancient and odd, but local usage,
called creeling, is still kept up here. On an early evening after a
newly-married couple have commenced house-keeping, the young
men of the parish repair to their house; invite the bridegroom out,
or, if he refuses, take the first opportunity of laying hold on him,
and place a creel laden with stones on his back, with which he has
to pace up and down, till the bride comes forth, and, cutting the
cords, disencumbers him. By this ceremony are shadowed forth
the cares which a man incurs by marrying, but of which it is in the
power of a dutiful wife to lighten him. A gratuity, however, is
given by all who can pay it, rather than be creeled. I presume
that the actual load of matrimony is considered quite enough to be
borne without the addition of this symbolical one.
   At the morning and evening meals of the peasantry, their staple
is oatmeal porridge and milk; their dinner consists of bread made
from pease and barley, and of potatoes, seasoned with fat pork.
Each family feeds at least two pigs a-year. Tea is getting more
and more into use, and especially among the female heads of fami-
lies; a change which, from its cost, and for other obvious reasons,
is much to be regretted. The peasantry here,-as throughout the
county,-are religious and moral; and, in particular, there is scared-
ly an instance of habitual intemperance.
   Irregularity of marriage, from the facility and secrecy with which
it can be contracted on the border, is very common. This has both
its advantages and its evils; an illegitimate birth, on the one band,
very seldom happening; but, on the other band, improvident and
ill-assorted matches being often made.
   Though favourably circumstanced in respect of the comforts and
advantages of society, and not discontented with their condition,
yet emigration is remarkably prevalent. There is a general mis-
apprehension, respecting the description of emigrants from among
our rural population. From this parish, at least, they, for the most
part, have been the robust, the enterprising, and the provident;
they have been eminently successful; and the accounts sent home
by them of their prosperity have extended the emigratory spirit.


