
     Statistical Account

sioners, to whose wants they kindly and regularly attend; and
other individuals are not more distinguished by their rank and
opulence, than by their extensive charity, and exemplary bene-
volence*.-It may be said with the strictest regard to truth,
(and to the honour of the humanity of the age, and of the
place, it ought indeed by no means to be concealed), that no
case of private distress is made known, which does not here
meet with kind sympathy, and instant relief; that no time
of general scarcity occurs, which does not bear testimony to
the virtue of individuals, and call forth the most benevolent
exertions.  These acts of beneficence are by no means pecu-
liar to those of high rank, and in affluent circumstances; in-
stances of compassion to the afflicted, and of relief extended
to the indigents frequently occur among those placed in the
humbler walks of life, which do honour to themselves and
to humanity.

   Vagrant Beggars.-Though the town of Cupar may be

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1782, the price of meal rose to an enormous
height.  That the poor might be enabled to purchase their usual
supply, the session added to their ordinary distributions the sum
of 50 L. the savings of former years.  They divided also to the
necessitious 25 L. raised for their use by the humane and benevo-
lent, by the laudable and efficient scheme of a subscription ball.
Owing to these, and some other donations of less consideration,
the poor in Cupar were happily,preserved from the pressure of
want, during that year of general distress.-In the course of the
last wintner, (1793), coals, all over the kingdom, were extreme-
ly scarce and high priced.  That the poor might not suffer
from the want of fuel, and that coals might be sold to them at
the ordinary rate, the town of Cupar generously gave 20 gui-
neas, to assist in reducing the price of this necessary article.  A
nobleman, who probably would not wish his name to be men-
tioned, sent to the town 15 guineas to purchase coals for the
poor.  The residing heritors of the parish also liberally contri-
buted to the same benevolent purpose.  One gentleman gave 5
guineas, another 3, etc.


