
                        LARBERT.                           377

  Library.-There is a parish library under the care of the mi-
nister.
  Friendly Society.-There is no savings bank in the parish, but
there is a Friendly Society at Carron, which is managed with great
ability, and which has a most advantageous effect. There are al-
so several dead funds for defraying the funeral expenses of the sub-
scribers or their families.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The management of the poor is en-
tirely in the hands of the minister and kirk-session, who attend most
carefully to their duties in this respect, as well as to the more di-
rect duties of their sacred office. The number of persons on the
poor roll is on an average, 36. The following is a statement
of the usual funds to meet the expense incurred.

Annual subscription from the beritors, being at the rate of L.4 Ster.
  ling on the L.100 Scots valuation,	   	                    L. 26 0 0
Collection at the church door,	                    	               70 0 0
Donation,	                                                        8 0 0
                                                                      ________
                                         	    Total,    -    L. 104 0 0
  In addition to the above, there is a sum of L.500 given to the
poor by the late Colonel Simpson of Plean, the yearly interest of
which is expended in coal and food for the poor during the severest
weather. Many of the resident heritors have a list of pensioners
whom they relieve weekly.
  Fairs.-The tryst of Falkirk is held within the parish of Lar-
bert, (on a dry sandy level moor or heath, the property of Sir Mi-
chael Bruce,) on the second Tuesday of the month of August,
September, and October. The first market is only for black-cat-
tle. The two last are much more numerously attended. At each of
these markets, there are about, 1st tryst, 4000 black-cattle, 400
horses and ponies; 2d and 3d trysts, 17, 000 black cattle, 20,000
sheep, 700 horses and ponies. The tryst is of considerable advan-
tage to the country, as it occasions a demand for grass and foggage.
The second crop of clover is generally let for the two last markets,
at the rate of L.2 per acre; and a great deal of money is also cir-
culated among the keepers of public-houses.
  It is much to be lamented, that the number of houses licensed
for the sale of spirits so great; and there can de no doubt that
the habitual use of ardent spirits has had a most injurious effect
upon the moral of the people. The magistrates have endeavour-
ed to check the increase of these houses; but the use of this al-


