
			ARDROSSAN. 			        209

rate. There are also the Saltcoats Sabbath School Library; the
Ardrossan Sabbath School Library; and the Parochial Juvenile
Library; into which books adapted to the young are principally
introduced. There is a public reading-room in the town-house of
Saltcoats.
	Charitable and other Institutions.--A savings bank was establish-
ed in Saltcoats about twenty years ago, which has certainly been
productive of much good. The number of depositors is 148, viz.
62 males, 62 females, 11 small charitable societies, and 13 indi-
viduals beyond the bounds of Ardrossan and Stevenston. The
sum at present deposited is L. 777, 17s. 5d., giving an average of
above L. 5, 5s. to each depositor.
	Poor and Parochial Punds.--The number of poor on the roll
is above 70, and they receive from 6d. to 3s. weekly, according
to their necessities. They are supported at an expense of nearly
L. 170 a-year, obtained from the collections at the church door;
mortcloth and proclamation money; and a voluntary contribution
by the heritors. The collections amount to about L. 80 a-year;
the mortcloth and proclamation money to about L. 20; and the
sum further required is contributed by the heritors according to
their valuation. There is, besides, Service's Bequest of L. 300;
the interest of which is distributed by the trustees, (the minister,
the oldest surgeon, and nearest resident justice of the peace,) among
poor householders in the parish. There is little backwardness in
applying for relief from the parish funds. They do not look upon
this kind of charity as in any way degrading; and children in good
circumstances have been known to allow their parents to receive it.
	Fairs.--There are three fairs held in this parish in the course
of the year; one in Saltcoats on the last Thursday of May, for
cattle, pigs, shoes, cooper-dishes, &c.; the other two in Ardrossan;
one of them in July, and the other on the fourth Thursday of No-
vember, for cattle and settling of accounts.
	Inns, Alehouses, &c.--There are 28 houses or shops in the pa-
rish licensed to sell ardent spirits and ales; and the fact cannot be
denied that they have a most pernicious effect upon the morals of
the people. *

<FOOTNOTE>
	* About 7000 gallons of spirits have been returned me, as entered in the excise
books, for one year alone, the price of which to the consumer must be above L. 3500,
--a sum sufficient to keep all the poor in the parish in most comfortable circumstan-
ces--pay the ministers of religion and the teachers of youth handsomely, besides
maintaining an efficient police. Much of this quantity may be used as sea-store;
still, however, the quantity consumed ashore must be very great; and vice and mi-
	AYR.			                      O


