
              WALLS AND FLOTTA.                           73

rock-scenery with which this parish abounds. Some of the pre-
cipices on the west side are of sandstone, intersected by amygda-
loid, and these agaio - are in one place intersected by a whin dike
almost straight aod perpendicular. Saodstone succeeds with ar-
gillaceous schist, together with strata containing lime/ Round
the west and past of the north baoks of the Longhope, the shore
is composed of the schist and sandstone; when, after two or three
miles, the former recommeoces, and is supposed to extend almost
to the northeast extremity of the parish. Lime is to be found;
but it is not thought that its manufacturd would be profitable; and
there are distinct traces of iron aod lead. The article of most
value to the inhabitants is the inexhaustible store of excellent peat
fuel on the north side of the Longhope, which all are allowed to
cut and convey to their homes without cost, exceptiog their la-
bour, and the expeose of carriage.
  Zoology.-There are no animals of prey in this parish, nor are
there any poisono6s reptiles. There is a considerable number of
sheep peared on the island. They are allowed to roam at large
over the hill pasture, and each proprietor has a particular mark by
which his property is known. The black-cattle are also numerous.
They are generally of a small size,-both they and the sheep being
of the Highland breed. The horses are numerous; and,
though larger than those of Shetland, they are smaller than those
of the south.
   Ornithology- There is a very great variety in the feathered tribe.
The domestic fowls are the same as on the mainland of Scotland.
Grouse are abundant; and the birds of song are somewhat similar
to those further south. Hawks are common; and a beautiful
species of falcon is found, bold and fierce in the extreme, and of
a large size. There are several kinds of eagles, which frequent
the lofty rocks towards the west. These commit great depreda-
tions upon the grouse, which would be much more numerous but
for such formidable endmies. It is alleged that the number of the
eagles has never been known to increase or diminish.
   The sea-fowl are very numerous. The ember-goose is often
found in winter, and the shear-water abounds to, which might be
added a numerous list of others which derive their subsistence
principally from the sea. When the winter is severe, white swans
are occasional visitors.
   Ichthyology.-In nothing  does the, kindness of Divine Provi-
dence towards, the inhabitants, appear more than in the great sup-


