
               46                        ARGYLESHIRE.

               of this river, and extending for about two miles along its course to
               the head of Loch Craignisb, it forms the valley of Barbreck.
               From the appearance of the rising ground on either side, it is ex-
               tremely probable that, at some remote period, this flat was co-
               vered by the sea.
                 The peninsular part of the parish, extending for about six miles
               from the head of Loch Craignish to the southwest, swells on the
               eastern side into numerous verdant eminences, the highest of
               which do not exceed, if they even reach, 300 feet. Close along the
               shore, a narrow strip of level land, jutting into points and winding
               into bays, lies between the base of these eminences and the loeb.
               A range of beath-clad hills, of from 400 to 500 feet in height,
               stretch from the flat, alrea. y described as on the north of the pa-
               rish, logitudinally along the middle and western side, and dimi-
               nish gradually in elevation as they approach the sea on the south.
               The higher points of this range ornmand extensive and diversified
               prospects.  While the whole parish and Loch Craignish, with its
               numerous islets, are stretched close beneath, the mountains of
               Mull and Morven and the lofty summits of Ben Cruaclian are
               seen to the north; and to the south and west appear Loch Crinan,
               the bills of Knapdale, the sound of Jura, the island of that name,
               with its far-famed peaks,
                            " Arid Scarba's isle, whose tortured shore
                              Still rings to CorrieVrecken's roar,
                                    And lonely Colousay:-
                                Scenes sunw bv M.  who sings no more!
                                His bright and brief career is o'er-

                                A distant and it deadly shore
                                Has Leyden's cold remains."
               On a summer's evening, when the Atlantic, which is here stud-
               ded with islands, like the Aegean, reflects the glories of the set-
               ting sun, and the azure bues of the distant hills to the east, are
               seen to blend with and lose themselves in the roseate light that
               crowns their summits,-tbe prospect is one of surpassing beauty
               and magnificence.
                    Coast, Islands, &c-The coast, from its numerous indentations,
               cannot be less than sixteen miles in extent.  On the east the
               shore, in general, is flat and clayey, with an admixture of sand.
               In some parts it is extremely muddy.  It is rocky on the south-
               east, and reniarkably so on the south and west.  On the western
               side,,there are several little bays, the sbores of which are covered
               with a fine light-coloured sand.
                                                

