
                  CROY AND DALCROSS.                   449

Goth has since cut down for mean and servile purposes. The
writer of this Account having employed some men to cut down a
mortar bank, discovered, about six feet from the surface, several
pieces of wood, from two to four inches square, the lamina being
quite distinct; but, when exposed to the atmosphere, they soon
crumbled into dust. So compact was the mortar, that an able-
bodied man could not, with his mattock, penetrate more than two
or three inches at a time; and the bank had not the least appear-
ance of any change since its original formation. To the west of
the church, there is a large grey stone, called clach na seanaish,
that is, "the listening stone," commemorative of those barbarous
deeds which too frequently disgrace the in memory of our ancestors.
The Cummings, conceiving they had received some offence from
the Mackintoshes, were determined to be revenged, and, conceal-
ing their bloody purpose, invited the Mackintoshes to the Castle
of Rait, where all animosities should be buried in oblivion at the
festive board. One of the Cummings, from compunction of con-
science, or regard for one of the intended victims, sent private no,
tice to one of the Mackintoshes to meet him at the grey stone, to
which, addressitio, himself in the audience of his friend, he disclos-
ed the bloody and treacherous intentions of his clan. The Mac-
kintoshes being thus made aware of the design of the rendezvous,
nothing daunted, repaired to the castle at the appointed hour, and,
before, the Cummings could give the signal for attack, each Mac-
kintosh plunged a dagger in the bosom of a Cumming, and only
saved the life of the man who communicated the treachery to the
grey stone.
  Of old, and before the records of the kingdom, there were
extensive forests of oak, birch, fir, and hazel, which have been
converted into moss in some places upwards of twenty feet deep,-
one of these, Blarna Fiadgh, (Deer's Forest), shows what the
language then was, and the use to which the forest was appro-
priated. In a moss 400 feet above the level of the sea oaks of
extraordinary size are dug up, some of them measuring, from 50
to 60 feet, and of proportional thickness; and even at the height
of 800 feet, where the parish joins the Strathdearn Hills, large
blocks of fir are found, where now, from cold and storm, the dwarf
willow can scarcely raise its downy and lowly head. When the
mountain torrent sweeps away its bank or forms a new ravine, fir
blocks are seen in different alternate strata, clearly indicating that
the formation of these vast layers of sand and gravel could not have


