
			 JOHNSTONE.                      165

and improved in 1817. That over the Annan at Johnstone Mills,
consisting of one arch, in span above 80 feet, was built in the year
1818. Both of these bridges, with the others over the smaller
streams, are kept in excellent repair.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated on the west side of
The river Annan, and upon the eastmost verge of the parish, and
is, like many other of our parish churches in Scotland, by no means
centrical, or convenient for the greater part of the population. Its
distance from the western extremity is seven miles, from the north-
ern, four, and from the southern, two miles and a-half. It was built
in the year 1733, and rebuilt and considerably enlarged in 1818,
and is now very comfortable and commodious. The only benefac-
tion on record is that of L. 172 bequeathed by John Aitken, late
farmer in Kirkbank, for behoof of the parochial schoolmaster, and
placed, in terms of his will, under the uncontrolled management of
the kirk-kession. The money is, by a personal bond dated at Edin-
burgh 13th March 1822, in the hands of the trustees upon the es-
tate of Annandale, who have hitherto allowed for it five per cent.
per annum. The church accommodates 500 persons, and there
are at least fifty free sittings. The manse was built in the year
1735, rebuilt about 1795, and enlarged and repaired at the expense
of L. 650 in 1809, when the present incumbent was inducted into
the living. The extent of glebe land may be about ten imperial
acres, including garden and house steading, and may be valued at
20s. per acre. The amount of the stipend is, L. 165, 13s. 1 1/3d.
per annum.
	The number of families attending the Established church may
be 191,and of persons of all ages at an average, 400. The number
of persons attending the neighbouring dissenting meeting-houses
may be 27. The average number of young cominunicants yearly
at the parish church, from a private register kept by the minister
for nearly twenty years past, has been 25, and of ordinary commu-
nicants of all ages, of whom a few are from other congregations,
400.
	An annual collection for religious purposes has been made for
some years past upon the thanksgiving Sabbath or that which im-
mediately succeeds the dispensation of the Sacrament of the Lord's
Supper, and has been usually divided between the Bible Society of
Edinburgh and the Scottish Missionary Society. A moiety of it
was this year transmitted to the North American Colonial Society
of Glasgow. The probable average amount of church collections


