
186                DUMBARTONSHIRE.

  In 1745, the Highlanders descended directly upon this part of
Scotland from the Craw road along the western limb of the Camp-
sie range. A stupid and cruel-minded man fired from a barn bole,
and killed one of the rebels as they passed through the town of
Kirkintilloch. This wanton and unwarrantable action led to very
serious results to the inhabitants of the burgh. They were order-
ed to give up the murderer to justice, but, on being unable to do
so, a heavy fine was imposed upon them. On the return of the
Highland host northwards, the town was again put into a great
panic, it being reported that they were to come that way, and
meant to burn it. An aged person tells me that his father was an
eye-witness of the confusion which prevailed on the approach of
the much dreaded host. People were flying in all directions, in
the utmost despair, taking with them what they valued most; and
among the rest, he particularly remarked an infirm old man making
his escape with his cow and a chaff-bed thrown over her back.
But a more dreadful, and not less dreaded foe, was destined to in-
vade the peaceful burgh of Kirkintillocb well nigh to a century
after. This was no less than that appalling scourge, the Asiatic
cholera, which visited this place in 1832, after having visited Had-
dington and Musselburgb. Kirkintilloch was the first station it
touched at in the west of Scotland, and if the local agitation was
great, the terror of the whole country around was, if possible, still
greater. The total number of cases was 96; deaths, 36; cures,
60. Of the 36 fatal cases, 10 were children, 14 females, and 12
full-grown males.
   Antiquities.-The castle of Kirkintilloch, on the Kelvin, ap-
pears to have been a place of considerable strength, in the end of
the thirteenth century, when it belonged to John Comyn, who lost
it and the barony of Kirkintilloch, by forfeiture, on the accession
of Robert Bruce, when it was given to Sir Robert de Fleeming,
ancestor,ofthe Honourable Admiral Fleeming, in consideration
of the eminent services rendered in the course of the long and
bloody contest, which that monarch carried on with the English,
for the possession of the Scottish throne. No traces of this an-
cient fortress now remain. In the northern side of the parish.
there is an ancient square tower, known by the name of the tower
of Banheath. This was in ancient times a stronghold of the
Boyds, Earls of Kilmarnock. whose armorial bearings are still
blazoned above the door. It was at one period surrounded with
woods, and had a deer park. In the memory of persons now liv-


