
     Statistical Account

the castle), 10 feet thick, and 35 feet high*.  For romantic
situation, and natural beauties, (such as the serpentine wind-
ings of rivers, trees and shrubs starting from the brows of
steep rocks, and lining the sides of deep dens), it exceeds any
thing in this part of the country.  Till within these 3 years
it has remained a ruin; but now an elegant modern house,
built on the principal foundations of the castle, is just
finishing.

   Castle of Balrie.-The castle of Balrie, another ruin, situ-
ated in Strathmore, has been built upon a rising ground, to-
wards the W. end of the present moss (formerly a large loch),
containing about 120 acres, to the eastward of the castle, and
6 or 8 to the westward.  The present proprietor, about 10
years ago, dug up a part of the causeway which led into the
draw-bridge; so that there is little doubt of this place having
been once very strong, and almost impregnable.  The walls,
in general, are about 8 feet thick; but the house has been
small, and rather intended for a place of refuge in times of
danger, than the constant residence of a family+.

   Moss of Balrie.-The moss of Balrie was begun to be
drained about 40 years ago, and has, at various intervals, un-
dergone different degrees of draining; the great object of
which has no doubt been the immense quantity of fine shell
marl found in it, as well as peats.  The one has contributed

<FOOTNOTE>

*At what time it was built, is not so certain, as that it was destroyed by the
Marquis of Argyll in 1640; which was repaid in kind by the Marquis of MONT-
ROSE and the royalists, a few years after, when they burnt MUCKART and
DOLLAR, and overthrew LOCHOW, Argyll's principal residence.

+The neighbouring lands, with the castle, were the property of the last Lord
Viscount FENTON, whose eldest daughter married into the family of STRATH-
MORE, and of which lands the Earl of Strathmore is still superior.  It is said to
be more than 100 years since any part of the roof of the castle was standing.


