
	454                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	the rent being regularly calculated to be all that can possibly be
	scraped together, after providing the humblest necessaries of life
	for the farmer. Be that as it may, that they live on the simplest
	fare, is an undeniable fact. Butcher-meat, except on very rare
	occasions, is unknown, and small beer a luxury. Poultry, butter,
	eggs, are all for the market. Of all the farmers in this extensive
	parish who pay L.50, there are not more than six who occupy the
	farms of their fathers, and not more than ten of any description of
	tenants who are natives of the parish. Whatever the cause may be,
        it cannot be any desire of change on the part of the people, the
	reverse being their amiable characteristic; and, strange to say,
	such is the competition for small farms, of which this parish is
	chiefly composed, that, with many melancholy cases before their.
	eyes, it is confidently believed there would be no decrease in the
	present rent rolls, were every farm in the parish out of lease.

		                IV.-INDUSTRY.
           Rent of Land.-The valued rental, which in 1767 was L.552,
	is now L.3278, 14s. 10 3/4.; and cessed property about L.5400.
	Rental in 1764, L.552.
	   Improvements.-The farmers of the district appear to follow
	no regular system of agriculture, and deprecate the least devia-
	tion from the ways of their fathers, as savouring of ignorance,
	pride, and novelty. The lands, overrun with weeds, seldom visited
	with manure, were forced to undergo a succession of from four to
	six white crops, and then the land, thus reduced to a caput mor-
	tuum, was kindly allowed to recover its exhausted strength by a
	rest from its labours for several years. To remove stones from
	the surface or to blast those under ground, which frequently broke
	their crazy and clumsy ploughs to pieces, or build enclosures, was
	truly in their estimation such novelties, as their fathers never beard
	of, and of course could not be endured. Such of their cattle as
	escaped starvation by want of provender in winter, were stinted in
	growth, and unfit for sale till late in the following season. Indeed
	these fathers were famous only for the elegant curvature of their
	ridges, which might well vie with Hagarth's lines of beauty; but
	whether these were the effects of ignorance or taste, it is bard to
	determine. It is not, however, to be supposed that this state of
	sloth and ignorance was confined to this particular district or parish.
	   With respect to enclosures, it appears that the Laird of Kilra-
	vock, about the year 1740, built some miles of stone dikes, to en-
	close an extensive plantation in this parish, and so substantially


