
	298		   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	writing and arithmetic, 3s. 6d.; with book-keeping, 4s.; and any
	of the above, with the addition of mensuration or the languages,
	7s. The school fees may amount to L. 25 or L. 28 per annum.
	At the academy, there is a rector who teaches arithmetic, geogra-
	phy, mathematics, and natural philosophy; and, for the last pur-
	pose, he is provided with an excellent philosophical apparatus.
	There is also a teacher of the languages, namely, Latin, Greek,
	and French, and a teacher of English reading, grammar, and writ-
	ing. At the boarding-schools, the usual female accomplishments
	are taught. The Society school has been established chiefly for
	behoof of the village of Inver, which is wholly a Gaelic population,
	and which is, besides, at an impracticable distance from the town.
	  The people are in general very anxious to secure for their chil-
	dren the best education their circumstances will permit. It has
	been remarked, that notwithstanding-- or perhaps more correctly,
	in consequence of-the facility afforded by the academy for attain-
	ing what is usually termed a finished education, the number of boys
	from the parish who pursue their studies at the university is not
	increased, but rather diminished. The knowledge acquired here
	is generally deemed sufficient for those who do not intend to em-
	brace a profession demanding a college curriculum. It is not easy
	to tell how much of any improvement in the conduct of the people
	may be owing to the increased facilities of education; that a higher
	tone of thinking has been communicated seems certain, and the
	degradinq vices, such as drunkenness, appear, among the respect-
	able classes, to have much decreased.
	  There is a library attached to the academy for the use of the
	pupils. More than one library, parochial and circulating, have
	from time to time been set on foot, but, from bad management, they
	have dwindled away. There is a public reading-room maintained,
	at which several newspapers are received.
	  Friendly Societies.-Of these,there are three,namely,the Guild-
	ry Society, the Friendly Society, and the Mason Lodge. The
	first has existed since 1738, and is designed chiefly as a widow's
	fund; the entry-money is L. 5, the quarterly subscription ls., and
	the annuity granted to the widow (or to the children, until the
	youngest reach the age (of twelve,) L. 5. The second was es-
	tablished about twenty-five years ago, chiefy among the opera-
	tive classes. It assists the impoverished members in sickness and
	old age, and inters, them at death. The Mason Lodge, which
	embraces only free-masons, has acted for above seventy years on a
	similar principle.


