
126				DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

siderable number of years ago. The late General Dirom of Mount
Annan enriched Mr Crawfurd's map of the county with a descrip-
tion of the minerals, both in the higher and lower districts, referring
to a letter addressed to him by Dr Walker, and to "Miscellanea
Scotica," published in 1710, and to some notices in Pennant's tour;
also to a practical survey by Messrs Bushby, which, not having
been published by the gentlemen of the county, was added by the
author of this article to his agriculture survey of Dumfries-shire
in 1811. Some further observations occur on the mineralogy of
the county, in the article Dumfries-shire in thd Edinburgh Ency-
clopaedia. In this parish no freestone quarries have been worked;
but there are quantities of trap-rock, and of greywacke, or blue
stone, which are used for the purpose of common building. Masses
of loose rocks appear on various lands, and especially on the lands
of Craiks Craigs; but on the bottom of Evan, or others of these
rivers, the floatz trap rocks appear stratisfied, and their dip is com-
monly to the south and west, and nearly vertical, occasionally dis-
covering calcareous spar intermixed. There is no solid granite
rock in the parish or the county; nor have any ores or fossil re-
mains worth notice been discovered.*

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	There is a county map which was executed by Mr Crawfurd
about thirty years ago, at the expense of the landholders. The
names of the heritors, taken in the order corresponding with the
extent and value of their estates, are as under, viz. Mr Hope
Johnstone of Annandale, M. P.; his Grace the Duke of Buc-
cleuch; Miss Munro Johnstone of Corehead; Lieutenant-Gene-
ral Sharpe of Hoddam, M. P.; Mr Younger of Craigielands;
the heirs of Mr Paterson of Langbedholm; and Mr Tweedie of
Oliver.
	Parochial Registers.--The parish register has been long con-
tinued, but with one considerable space of time blank when it was
neglected. The first volume begins in 1692, when Mr Thomas
Goldie was ordained, and extends to 1697.  The second volume
begins in 1736, when Mr William Scott was ordained, and ex-
tends to 1755, and thence the record extends to 1769 and 1787.
The late Mr Scott carried it to 1799, from which time it has been
continued to this year. It contains a record of births and mar-

<FOOTNOTE>Zoology and Botany.--For the Zoology and Botany of this parish, reference is
made to those Articles in the Account of Moffat.



