
298			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Mineralogy--Coal Mines.--In the valley of the NitH, in the pa-
rishes of Sanquhar and Kirkconnel, coal is found in great abund-
ance, extending about seven miles in lenght and two miles and a-
half in breadth. Sandstone of a reddish shade, about six feet thick,
generally overlaps the coal; but sandstone and blaes of different
shades are found in many places. The coal appears to be a con-
tinuation of that which is found in Ayrshire. It cannot be supposed
to have any connection with the coal in Canobie or Cumberland;
for in proceeding down the Nith the valley contracts, and the tran,
sition rocks commence about a mile and a-half below the town of San-
quhar, near Elhock, and where the whole of the secondary strata of
the valley of Sanquhar terminate. Three seams of workable coal
have been discovered, averaging severally in thickness 3 feet 8 inches,
4 feet, and 4 feet 6 inches, and varying from 4 to 32 fathoms in
depth. The greater part of the coal field is the property of the
Duke of Buccleuch and Queensberry. In this part the workings
are at present carried on in three pits, and about sixty men are em-
ployed. The water is carried off by levels. No steam or other
engines are found necessary. The range of the coal seams is in the
direction of the river Nith, north-west by south-east, and is bounded
on each side by transition rocks. It dips to the north-east by north
about one foot in twelve. It is frequently found intersected by whin-
stone dikes, one of which, from 12 to 36 feet thick, and ranging S. E.
and N. W., may be traced on the surface about a mile in length.
A small dike, a few falls above the old bridge over Crawick stream,
may be also mentioned. It runs nearly north and south, and changes
the former bearing of the metals separating the strata, which dip
nearly east on both sides of it. The breach of the strata which
constitutes the dike depresses the metals on the east side so much
that they are considerably separated from those on the west side.
On the east side it is called a down-dike, and on the west side an
up-dike. Such, indeed, is the general effect which all dikes and
slips of a similar nature produce on the metals in coal fields, where
they frequently occur. The third seam of coal mentioned above
has been wrought to, the greatest extent by the side of the Cra-
wick stream, in the moor of Sanquhar, which till lately was a com-
monty.* It is remarkable that, in this seam under the bed of the
river, and to some distance on each side, there were found thou-
sands of bodies resembling fishes of different kinds, and varying in

<FOOTNOTE>Professor Jameson, at page 89 of his Mineralogy of Dumfries-shire, says that, a
little above Crawick Bridge, there are examples of colummnar glance coal, which in some
places is seen passing into graphite or black-lead.


