
232                            FORFARSHIRE.

strengthen the soil, and render it more absorbent of rain, and more
impervious to drought. Since the large drain between the Castle
of Glammis and the Loch of Forfar, which was opened about sixty
years ago, and which extends about 2 miles in length, has been re-
cently deepened and widened, about 106 acres of meadow and mossy
land, running parallel with the northern boundary of the parish,
will be easily brought into a state, of tillage,--20 acres of which
have been drained and put under corn-crop this season. This will
make a valuable acquisition to the arable land. Much still remains
to be done also in the way of enclosing, and in thinning and prun-
ing of plantations.--Although turnips and potatoes, of excellent
quality, and in great abundance, are grown in the parish, yet there
seems to be here, as well as in the county at large, a great deside-
ratum in the mode of preserving them in good condition. On an ave-
rage, one-tenth of the turnips may be said to be annually destroy-
ed by frost; and potatoes, which, as an article of food, are so use-
ful to the inhabitants of the island, become unpleasant and rather
unwholesome food by the middle of the month of April. *
	Obstacles to Improvement.-- One of the great obstacles to the im-
provement of the husbandry and manufactures of the parish is its
distance from a sea-port, Dundee being 12 miles distant. This
distance, over a succession of hills and dales, occasions long and
expensive carriage, accompanied with a great deal of tear and

<FOOTNOTE>To these two great evils the following simple remedies might be applied with
success. Those turnip fields with are designed for consumption by sheep should
be consumed before the severity of winter sets in; and a great proportion of those
that are designed to stand over the winter, for the benefit of young stock, milch-cows,
and the feeding-byre, should be pulled in the beginning of winter, carted home, di-
vested of their stems, piled up in a heap, and carefully thatched and roped. By these
means they would be secured from the effects of frost, and preserved in good con-
dition till the commencement of grazing.--With a view to prolong the season of
potatoes, the following scheme is humbly proposed. Every potatoe-grower should
select a dry rising ground, in which he should dig a pit 6 or 8 feet deep, 6 feet wide,
and proportioned in length to the quantity to be stored; should face up the sides
and ends with stone from top to bottom: should deposit the potatoes in it, cover
it over with thin stone flags, and then lay over it a quantity of earth to the depth
of four feet, for the purpose of excluding all air and rain from them, and, of course,
for preventing their vegetation. In order that the owner of the depository may have
 fresh supply of potatoes weekly, or at pleasure, a small stone-built and earthen-
covered passage should he constructed at one of the ends of the depository, (the lower
end being preferable,) and closely built up with turf at the outer end, for the purpose
of excluding air from the depository. If a dry bank cannot be found for the construc-
tion of such a depository, an artificial mound of earth should be raised, and a depo-
sitory constructed in it as above described. In whichsoever of these ways the depo-
sitory may be constructed, it behoves to be made perfectly dry by means of an under
drain. Such a depository may be somewhat expensive in the construction; but, when
once constructed, it would serve the purpose in all time coming. By means of this
simple scheme, potatoes might be preserved from sprouting, and the season of their
freshness prolonged till they ushered in the new potatoes.


