
			ABERLEMNO.                       629

looking windows. But a more perfect specimen is the Castle of
Flemmington, about a furlong to the east of the church, being
strong, stately, and dungeon-like. It is not many years since it
was occupied by the proprietor, and is still inhabited by, the farm-
servants.
  From the ancient character of the names of most places in the
parish, it is evident that there have been few changes in the
boundaries of estates; few breakings up of the larger, or combi-
nations of the smaller farms, for many ages past. There are few
mere conventional names of places; but most of them have allu-
sion to some historical fact, or are descriptive of the locality, or
commemorative of the persons to whom they originally belonged.
Such is the farm of Wander's Hill, properly the Wanderer's Knoll;
such is the hamlet of the Crosston, being near to a monumental
stone, ornamented with the figure of a cross; and such is a con-
siderable number of dwelling-houses and farms, the names of
which begin with Bal, signifying "a town or dwelling-place ge-
nerally," as Balgavies, Balbinnie, Balglassie, Balnocake, and Bal-
garrock.  While some of these names tell us that they were the
abodes, in days long gone by, of persons who, like some spoken
of in the Scriptures, called their houses by their names, that they
might perpetuate their memorial in the earth; others of them;
as Balgarrock, which is said to signify the house on the moss,
describe the nature of their locality; and all of them tell us that
their designations were not of yesterday.
  Parochial Registers.-The earliest of the existing parochial re-
gisters bears the date of 1706, and extends to 1716. There is
then a break in the register, which may have been occasioned by
the fact, that the Rev. John Ochterlonny (proprietor of this neigh-
bouring estate of Flemmington), was the last Episcopal minis-
ter of this parish, and so managed as to keep possession of the
cure long after the date of his formal ejection. About the time
when the foresaid record closes, Mr Thomas Mitchell was or-
dained to the work of the ministry in this parish by the presbytery
of Dundee; but the register does not appear to have been re-
sumed until the year 1722, when one of the first entries is a re-
solution of the session to demand from Mr Ochterlonny the poor's
box and the mortcloths, with a list of the persons for whose inter-
ment they had been used during the eight previous years. The
communion plate became a future subject of demand by the ses-
sion, Mr Ochterlonny having retained it also, by what he probably


