
                           PITSLIGO.                           397

consequence during his incumbency at Pitsligo, as the church still
retains his name, being called "Cant's Kirk" by the fishermen.
He was distinguished as a defender of the Covenant, and was said
to be "a mortal enemy to the bishops."
   Although there are neither session nor presbytery records of this
date, it is more than probable that Cant was succeeded by Mr
Duncan Forbes, of whom mention is made in the presbytery records
of date 8th, November 1649; a person held in high esteem ; and,
in August 1650, he was unanimously "nominated" minister of Fra-
serburgh, by " the whole elders and other gentlemen and honest
men present;" but the synod refused his "transplantation."  In No-
vember of the same year he was desired to accept a charge in Aber-
deen; but this matter seems to have been afterwards dropped.  "In
1651, at a visitation of Deer, this same Mr Duncan Forbes having
preached on Mat. ii. verses 7, 8, 9, is approven by all as having
preached powerfully to the conscience, and pertinently to the
times."
   Wodrow, in his Church History, Vol. i. p. 329, (Burns's edition,)
states, that the same Mr Duncan Forbes was one of the seven in this
presbytery who were tyrannically cast out of their parishes after the
Restoration of Charles II.  The kirk-session record of 26th May
1665 states, "the which day Mr Alexander Swan was ordained mi-
nister in this parish."  The presbytery record of date 1701 alludes
to a Mr William Swan as being incumbent in Pitsligo; but as
both parochial and presbyterial records are very defective about
this period, nothing farther can be ascertained than that they
were brothers, and Episcopal clergymen ; the latter of whom
was deposed in 1716, with several others, for their nonjuring prin-
ciples and irregular conduct.
   The last Lord Pitsligo wrote a small work entitled "Thoughts
concerning Man's Duties in this Life, and his Hopes in the world to
come;" prefixed to a late edition of which is an interesting biographi-
cal sketch of his Lordship by Lord Medwyn. Alexander, fourth Lord
Forbes of Pitsligo, the only son, succeeded his father in 1691, took
the oaths and his seat in Parliament 24th May 1700 ; adhered to
the Duke of Athole's protest against the Union, 25th December
1705 ; and did not attend the Parliament in 1706-7, when that
treaty was settled.  He engaged in the Rebellion in 1715; but
no notice seem to have been taken of his defection.  He publish-
ed, in l734, essays, moral and philosophical; engaged in the Re-
bellion 1745 after the battle of Preston, and being considered


