
664                        FIFESHIRE.

basis for more distant operations. For advancing this opinion in
preference to any other, our reasons are briefly these:--1st, In a
military point of view, and according to the modes of warfare then
in use, the position is one of the strongest which the whole coun-
try affords. The natural advantages of its situation, indeed, must
have rendered it nearly impregnable with but a handful of defen-
ders, while, as a fortified camp, it was capable of receiving several le-
gions. 2dly, It forms one of a chain of similar fastnesses, most
advantageously situated for commanding the surrounding country,
for mutual support, and for keeping up a direct communication
with the coast and with the interior. 3d, The extent of the works
above described, the great amount of labour and industry required
for their completion, and, above all, their form and regularity, so
little in unison with the rude and desultory habits of the aborigi-
nal inhabitants, and so unsuited to their savage modes of warfare;
while in all these respects they very exactly characterize the en-
terprise and skill of their invaders, and their superior advancement
in the art of defensive warfare.
     Maiden Castle.--At the eastern extremity of the parish, and in
the immediate vicinity of the village of Kennoway, are to be seen
the vestiges of ancient fortifications, running along a narrow but
somewhat elevated ridge of sand-hills, commanding the surround-
ing plain. In the case of an invasion from seaward this would na-
turally have been regarded as the first defensible position, being
scarcely two miles from the mouth of the Leven, and forming the
key to the interior of the country towards the north and west.
Whetber tbe Scots, Romans, or Danes were its first occupants it
is now impossible to determine. That it has been the scene of
some bloody conflict is evident from the number of stone-coffins
containing human bones, that have been dug up in the immediate
neighbourhood. Farther westward, in the direction of Markinch,
weapons of war, peculiar to the Romans, have from time to time
been found. The highest point of the ridge in question rises to
the height of perhaps 80 feet above the small stream which runs at
the foot of it. On this knoll, the Pretorium or citadel, known by
name of the Maiden Castle,has stood. Its form has been
that of a square, and it measures about 30 paces across. Accord-
ing to Boethius, this was a castle of Macduff, Thane of Fife. His
description of it is sufficiently precise, and is valuable as the only
plausible record concerning a spot, that has once evidently been of
some importance. "Supersunt inter Divi Kenethi templum es


