
222                         HADDINGTONSHIRE.

<TABLE>
                                                       Present.
                  Wheat,              500 Acres.       1300
                  Barley,             800              200
                  Oats,               1200             700
                  Pease and Beans,    500              600
                  Turnips,            50               200
                  Grass,              1000             700

   Of potatoes it is said, in the former Report, "they now consti-
tute a great part of the living of the common people, and are much
cultivated."  At present there are 100 acres grown. The land under
cultivation was then 4020 acres; at present, 5325. Mr Nisbet of
Dirleton was beginning then to plant trees. Now there are 3OO acres
under wood. "The people were then beginning to enclose their
fields;" now there is hardly one open field in the parish-and the
contrast between the present and past state of the roads will be
sufficiently understood, when it is stated that, fifty years ago, one-
half of the road between Dirleton and North Berwick was repaired
every spring by the very primitive method of ploughing, rolling,
and harrowing.
   There seems to have been no assessment at that time, and the
number on the poor roll was 40; at present, with our increased popu-
lation, we have only 25. In the dress of the peasantry there is a
marked improvement; the homely articles of domestic manufacture
being now entirely supplanted by others of a finer and more elegant
texture.
   The wages of male house-servants have risen considerably. They
were then from L. 6 to L. 7, now from L. 8 to L. 12; female house-
servants then had from L. 2, 1Os. to L. 3, now from L. 4 to L. 9.
The condition of the binds also is improved. They now receive
24 bushels of oats annually more than at that period, and as more
valuable varieties of oats and barley are now cultivated, the addi-
tional advantage to them from that source is equal to a stone at
least of meal on every quarter of grain which they receive. The
keep of the cow is also superior to what it was then. In regard
to education, it is not easy to form any comparative estimate.
There is little reason, however, to believe that any great progress
has been made; the education of the old people appearing to be
of very much the same character, and equally widely diffused
as among the rising generation. In respect of morals, there is
the same difficulty in coming to an accurate opinion. The
general impression, however, of those who have lived longest in
the parish, is decidedly favourable to the present time. We                      
know not whether the following extract from the kirk-session re-


