
242                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

the west, by New Machar; on the north, by Foveran; and on the
east, bv the German Ocean.
   Topographical Appearances.-There are a number of small low
hills in this parish that run in two ridges from south to north, the
hills themselves and the ground between them gradually rising
as they depart fartiter from the sea.  The western boundary of
the parish is one continued ridge of high land, about 800 feet
above the level of the sea.
   The whole of the sea coast is a beach of fine sand, bounded by
sand-hills, covered with bent.  Next to that is a narrow stripe of
sand, covered with a sweet short grass, kept always for pasture.  This
stripe is so level that: the engineers appointed by Government to
measure Scotland, selected it as the levellest place they could find for
measuring a base line of 5 miles and 100 feet.  The south end of
this line begins on the top of a small hill called Tarbathy, on the
south boundary of the parish, and terminates on a rising ground
at Leyton, on the estate of Menie, near a barrack, where a coast
guard is at p resent stationed.  Colonel Colby superintended the
measurement of the line.  Next to this stripe of sandy soil, there
commences an alluvial deposit, consisting of water-worn stones of
every variety of quality and size, partly covered with vegetable
mould, moss, sand, and clay.  Advancing farther from the sea,
the soil becomes a deep rich clay mould, mixed in many places
with peat moss.  There is no rock or quarry within two miles of
the sea, but beyond that distance there is a great quantity of rock,
both in the small hills and the flats between them.
   Hydrography.-There is abundance of springs of excellent water
in the parish.  There are also a considerable number of strong
chalybeate springs, and a few impregnated with sulphur and sul-
phate' or sulphuret of iron.  None of these have as yet been ap-
plied to any great extent to medical purposes.
   Geology and Mineral.-There is nothing deserving of notice
in the geology or mineralogy of the parish of Belhelvie, except
that there is a seam of trap which-makes its appearance about half
a mile from the sea; at the south-east corner of the parish, and
proceeds in nearly a sitraight line for seven miles to the north-west
corner; after which, it takes more westerly direction, and extends
about thirty miles inland, to a mountain, called top of Noth, where
it divides into several branches.  This seam of trap irk Belhelvie
is from one-half to three-quarters of a mile in breahth, and one of
the small rivulets has cut its course along the middle of it.  In
                             3


