
294                   BERWICKSHIRE.

zontal. Frequently, also, the most singular bendings and contor-
tions may be traced; and sometimes a structure or arrangement
on a great scale, exactly resembling that which in a smaller scale
we observe in the agate or Scotch pebble. Not unfrequently, also,
in the ravines we behold the following arrangement: viz. the bed
of the small stream is composed of strata perfectly vertical, while
on either bank they dip away at a greater or less angle in opposite
directions. This rock, the greywacke, is, throughout the parish,
of the same general characters, being commonly fine-granular and
compact, in many situations, indeed, only a variety of sandstone.
   To attempt an explanation of these irregularities in the strati-
fication of this rock is what our space will not admit of, were we
even able to present a plausible hypothesis. Satisfied, however,
of the futility of theory on these subjects,-at least, of the impossi-
bility of explaining all the appearances of such a district as that
now described by any one system,-we prefer a simple statement or
description of the appearances themselves, subjoining, in a note,
one or two passages, descriptive of this coast, from the interesting
paper of Sir James Hall, Bart. of Dunglass, read to the Royal So-
ciety, February 3, 1812. *

<FOOTNOTE>"The killas," (or greywacke,) says he, "consists everywhere of an assemblage
of strata of various thickness, from several yards to the minutes leaf of slate. It is
in general of a dark-blue colour, and, when examined, is found to consist of a conge-
ries of fragments, which bear the most undoubted proofs of having been deposited in
an horizontal position. The strata lie parallel to each other, but are everywhere far
from being horizontal, their prevailing and best known position being vertical or
nearly so. They are often bent, however, at various angles, frequently very acute,
and sometimes with the strata nearly doubled upon themselves. In all the inland
part of this range the rock appears so partially, showing itself only in river courses, or
in quarries, that it is difficult to obtain any correct information as to the position of
the strata, which frequently exhibit great seeming irregularity, and which cannot be
described without making use of language which at first sight bears an appearance of
contradiction in terms. Thus, it not unfrequently happens that one set shows itself
in a position at the surface nearly erect, but having a decided dip to the east; and
that, in the immediate neighbourhood, another set occurs in a position similar to the
first, but having a no less decided dip to the west."
   "On the shore of the sea, however, where these rocks are bare, and exposed in
such a manner that our view can embrace at once a considerable extent of the mass,
the general structure becomes apparent, and we are enabled to give a rational account
of these seeming anomalies. This opportunity of observation occurs with peculiar
advantage on the coast of Berwickshire, where the lofty cliffs which extend from Fast
Castle eastward to Gun's Green, near Eyemouth, present to the view a cross section
of these strata, by which their position is seen to possess much more method and re-
gularity than the inland rocks would have led us to expect. The strata here exhibit
a succession of regular windings and powerful undulations, reaching from top to bot-
tom of the cliffs two or three hundred feet in height. These are occasionally inter-
rupted, as might be expected, by the irregularities of the coast, by shifts and disloca-
tions of the beds, and sometimes, as happens at St Abb's Head, by the intervention of
whinstone, or occasionally of porphyry.
   "Notwithstanding these interruptions, I reckoned (in an excursion to that coast
made last summer with my son, Lieutenant Basil Hall of this Society) sixteen dis-
tinct bendings in the course of about six miles, each of the largest size, and reaching


