
                    ST ANDREWS.                          485

4. of mathematics and geography; 5. of writing; 6. of drawing;
7.of the French,German,and ltalian languages and, 8. of cburch
music.
  The pupils connected with the English department are accom-
modated in two large apartments, in the south division of the
quadrangle. The classical teacher, with his pupils, occupies an
elegant and spacious apartment in the northern division, while the
teachers of arithmetic and writing occupy, respectively, the east and
west divisions. in the trustees' room, there is a handsome marble
bust of the founder, executed by Mr Joseph, London, which is re-
garded as exhibiting a very accurate likeness of the original at the
period when it passed through the hands of the artist. About
150 children of the most indigent of the citizens are selected by
the trustees to receive a gratuitous education. Those who ran
afford to pay for the education of their families have, for the or-
dinary branches, a selection of two rates of fees, the one being
double the amount of the other,--the same masters, however, su-
perintending the whole,-- The higher rate is 2s. a quarter for
English reading; 2s. 6d. for reading and writing; and 3s. for read-
ing, writing, arithmetic, and English grammar. The fees in the
other departments, viz. to the classical teacher, to tbe teachers of
modern languages, drawing, and mathematics, are each 7s. 6d. a
quarter, while the music master has only Is. a quarter from each
of his pupils. In addition to their respective fees, the teachers
of arithmetic, writing, and the modern languages have each an
allowance of L. 50 a year from the funds of the college, and
the music master L. 25. The English master has a salary of
L. 25 annually from the funds of the city, and the classical mas-
ter has L. 50 annually from the same source.
    The trustees have been most fortunate in the selection of teach-
ers for this new institution ; and the beneficial consequences that
were anticipated from it have been amply realized. St Andrews
has long been regarded as a most eligible place for education in
all its departments; and the erection of the Madras College has
contributed materially to increase its attractiveness. The follow-
ing detail exhibits a statement of the number of pupils attending
the several classes in May 1836, viz.--Tbe English 'elasses, 629;
writing do. 447 ; drawing do. 30 ; arithmetic do. '360 mathema-
tical do. 40; geography: do. 43; Latin do. 95; Greek do. 50;
church music do. 80. The total number of pupils attending the
institution at this date was, on a careful scrutiny, found to be 798



