
		ON THE COUNTY OF BERWICK.                       365

upwards of thirty years ago, the proportion of the various kinds of
soil are thus given: Deep loam on the principal rivers, 25410 acres;
clay lands in the How of the Merse, 40380 ; turnip soil, 119780;
meadow, moss, and moor, in Lauderdale and Lammermoor, 99870.
   Hydrography,-The principal rivers connected with this coun-
ty are the Tweed, Whitadder, Blackadder, and Leader. The
smaller streams are the Eye, Dye, Ale and Leet, besides a great
number of burns that cannot be particularized. The salmon-fish-
eries on that part of the Tweed which skirts this county are of
considerable value, and furnish employment during the season to
a number of individuals. Of late years, however, it is matter of re-
gret, that their value has been much diminished in consequence
of a deficiency of fish. The rentals have accordingly sunk, some
of them to a third of what they were a few years ago. Many causes
have been assigned for this remarkable failure. None of them,
however, appear satisfactorily to account for it. It has been con-
jectured that, in consequence of the pier of Berwick, which was
erected some years ago, obtruding too far into the mouth of the
river, its inlet has been narrowed, and the fish thereby prevented
from entering it. But by practical fishermen, and other intelligent
persons well acquainted with the natural history of the salmon, this
cause has been rejected as insufficient to account for the failure,-it
being well known that salmon are not easily deterred from resort-
ing to their usual haunts, and are abundant in rivers with a much
narrower entrance than that of the Tweed. Others have ascribed
the deficiency to the general use of lime for agricultural purposes,-
which being washed from the land by heavy rains, and in this way
conveyed into the Tweed, produces a deleterious effect on the fish.
But the practice of liming land in this district has not been re-
cently introduced, and existed for many years, when there was no
complaint of this failure. By others, it is thought that the river
is overfished, the number of boats on the water having been much
increased of late years. The most general opinion, and perhaps
the most satisfactory one is, that the deficiency is to be accounted
for from the illegal destruction of fish during close time in the up-
per part of the river and its tributaries,-which, in defiance of law,
and in direct violation of the rights of property, has been persisted
into an alarming extent, especially in the higher district of Tweed-
side. It is hoped that the Act lately obtained-a rigorous execu,
tion of the law on offendeis-a stricter vigilance by those interest-


