
618                         LANARKSHIRE.

ton became the first Sir James Stewart of Coltness and Kirkfield.
He was born in 1608, and, being a banker in Edinburgh, he ac-
quired a large fortune. In 1653, he purchased the lands of West
Carbarns or Kirkfield, from Sir John Somerville of Cambusnethan,
and soon after, the estate of Coltness, from Sir John Hamilton of
Udston. It had been sold as early as 1553 by the Somervilles of Cam-
busnethan, to Sir Robert Logan of Restalrig. In 1649, he was elect-
ed Lord Provost of Edinhurgh; and, being a zealous Covenanter,
he was, in the following year, chosen, together with the Marquis of
Argyle and the Earl of Eglinton, on the part of the Scotch, to
hold the conference with Oliver Cromwell in Burntsfield Links.
In 1659, he was again elected Lord Provost; but, on account of
his Whig principles, dismissed at the Restoration, and sent prisoner
first to Edinburgh Castle, and then to Dundee, and fined in L. 1500
Sterling. A length in 1670 he obtained a pardon.
	The excellent Bishop Leighton was brought up in Edinburgh
under Sir James Stewart's care; and the undaunted Hugh M'Kail,
who was so inhumanly tortured by order of the privy-council, and
afterwards executed in 1666, had been chaplain in his family. *
	Mr Hugh M'Kail, who was tutor in the family of Sir James
Stewart of Coltness and Goodtrees, in a sermon which he preach-
ed in the great Church of Edinburgh, showed that it was no new
thing for the church to suffer persecution. He said, "A Pharaoh
on the throne, a Haman in the state, and a Judas in the church,
had been instrumental in that work in former times;" and Sharpe
and Lauderdale, thinking their portraits had been very accurately
taken, were galled to the heart; and for this a troop of Dragoons
surrounded the house of Sir James Stewart, and apprehended Mr
M'Kail.
	Sir James Stewart, son of him before named, was born in 1635,
and mamed Agnes, daughter of the Rev. Robert Traill, minister

<FOOTNOTE>Among, many particulars which I found recorded in "the Coltness manuscripts,"
I shall transcribe the following:
	" Sir James Stewart, who had been twice first magistrate of Edinburgh, when near
ly seventy-three years of age, after his last visit to Coltness, when going to Edinburgh,
accompanied by some of the most respectable in the land; at Muiryett, about two
miles from Allanton, there is a rising ground which draws an extensive prospect,
there he stop, and having turned his horse, he looked around upon a scenery that
he was convinced he should beheld no more, and exclaimed, while tears of gratitude
flowed down his venerable cheeks, "Westshiel, and Lanark, and Carnwath Church,
my early home, my favourite haunts, farewell; Coltness and Allanton, and Cambus-
nethan Church, my later sweet shades farewell. Ye witnesses of my best spent
hours, and of my most ardent devotions, a last farewell. It is long since I bade
the vanities of this world adieu." May piety so exalted distinguish all, who frequent
these places of worship, and who inhabit these abodes !


