
160                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

denied them by the land-owners on the river's mouth,) all the
united vigilance of all the water bailies whom they or their tacks-
men may appoint, will never be able to check this demoralizing
practice.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
		Agriculture and Rural Economy.*--
Number of imperial acres in crops, or occasionally cultivated, between 5000 and 6000
	   acres uncultivated, or in pasture, &c. about                         5000
		 waste land which could be profitably cultivated,      500  to  1000
		 undivided common,                                                0
Extent of land under plantation and natural wood, nearly                        1500

	In the plantations made by the late James Earl of Hopetoun
forty years ago, Scotch firs were cheifly used, with a small portion
of larch and spruce. It is found, that, on moderately good soils,
the comparative value of the larch to the Scotch fir is as three or
four to one; and when the soil is mossy, and the bottom not very
retentive, that the spruce is double the value of the Scotch fir.
It is now quite understood, also, that very great injury is commit-
ted, and actual loss sustained, by not thinning the plantations in
due time, and by neglecting to drain them properly. In the lat-
ter plantations less Scotch fir is used, and more attention paid to
draining and thinning. From the older plantations, by means of
two saw-mills, kept in almost constant operation, the neighbouring
parishes and districts are supplied with wood for farm-buildings,
palings, and other agricultural purposes, and quantities of the
large larch have for thesd three years past, been sent to Lanca-
shire and Cheshire for erecting railways. On the whole, these
plantations, although they might have been perhaps more judi-
ciously managed, may be reckoned a most profitable application
of capital, whether we consider the great saving they occasion to
the propreitor in the erecting of farm-steadings, &c. or the direct
proceeds of their annual sales, or the vast advantages which they
afford by way of shelter, to the neighbouring lands.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of the arable land in the pa-
rish may be from 10s. to 12s. per imperial acre. There are not
above 2000 acres of land fit for regular rotation for green crop.

<FOOTNOTE>To Charles Stewart, Esq. factor upon the estates of Annandale, we are under
many obligations for his able assistance in framing this Report, but particularly for
his extensive information and very accurate calculations on this head.


