
			MINNIGAFF.		          133

the other registers occurs after 1696. From 1699 to 1710 they
have been faithfully kept. There is a blank from 1710 to 1718,
from which date to 1740 the transactions have been regularly re-
corded. From 1740 to 1795 there does not exist any record; from
the latter period, with the exception of six years after 1803, they
have been regularly kept to the present time.*

<FOOTNOTE>The earlier records are interspersed with various notices. At the com
mencement of last century the session appears to have met regularly twice a month,
on week days,--while at the beginning of the present one, they sometimes only met
twice a year! and that on Sabbaths. At the former period, there was public worship
regularly on a week day,--and the session contained upwards of twenty members,
including deacons. The records bear no evidence of having been examined by the
presbytery for upwards of one hundred years, which in some degree accounts for the
irregular manner in which they were kept. For the suppression of Sabbath break-
ing and drunkenness, there appear to have been vigorous efforts made, though the
following enactment will appear rather odd:--
	Nov. 13, 1695.--" It is enacted yt persons driving goods on ye Sabbath shall be
caused pay two pounds Scots, toties quoties, and shall be censured as fornicators
besides."
	Dec.   , 1700.--" A collection is ordered to be made for the slaves in Algiers."
	Aug. 9, 1701.--" The session considering that some persons, as they `re informed,
drink so long betwixt sermons on ye Sabbath day, so yt they either come too late, or
else stay wholly from the afternoon's sermon; to prevent this abuse, they appoint ye
elders and deacons by turns to search ye toun at ye said tyme, as also to take notice
that none stay unnecessarily from ye forenoon's sermon, or withdraw themselves in
time of divine worship."
	1702,'Jan.28.--"The session understanding yt some persons repair to Minigoff after
sermon on ye Sabbath, and are too ready to tarry too long in alehouses, they enact yt
about an hour after ye close of ye sermon on Sabbath days, ye officer toull ye bell to
give warning to all to repair to yr severall dwellings, wt certification yt any who
shall be found in alehouses after ye touling of ye bell shall be liable to censure; as
also ye heads of ye family yt entertain ym;--and yt ye said act may be ye more ef-
fectuall, ye members of ye session that live in ye toun of Minigoff are hereby ap-
pointed, each Sabbath evening after ye touling of ye bell, two and two persons, to go
throu ye town of Minigoff and search ye several alehouses yrof, and if they find any
persons drinking beyond ye said tyme, to delate ym and the head of ye families qr they
are entertained. The minister is to intimate this from ye pulpit ye next Lord's day.
The officer, for his pains for touling of ye bell each Sabbath evening, is allowed
twelve pounds Scots quarterly."
	1702, June 3.--"There being a flagrant report yt some persons in this parish in
and about the house of Barcly, should have practised that piece of devilrie commonly
called turning the riddle, as also it being reported yt ye principal person is one Mal-
ley Redmond, an Irish woman, for present nurse in the house of Barcly, to ye young
Lady Tonderghee, as also yt Lexander Kelly, Gilbaert Kelly, his son, and Marion
Murray, formerly servant in Barcly, now in Holme, were witnesses yrto, the ses-
sion appoints ye said Malley, and ye above said witnesses to be cited to ye nixt meet-
ing." Malley after some delay at length appeared, but positively denied having
"practised that piece of devilrie, of turning ye riddle," but acknowledged that she
had seen it done in her father's house in Ireland, by two girls, on occasion of some-
thing being stolen, "to fear ye guilty person yt it might restore yt was stolen." Mal-
ley was exhorted to be ingenuous, but she persisted in asserting her innocence. The ses-
sion, therefore, resolved to proceed to proof. The proceedings occupy a number of
pages, and are too long for insertion, but the particulars are comprehended in the de-
position of Marion Murray. "Marion Murray, aged 18 years, having been sworn,
purged of malice and partial consel, deponeth, yt she (not having seen any other
person doing it before her,) together with ye nurse, held ye riddle betwixt ym, hav-
ing a pair of little schissors fastened into ye rim of the riddle, whereof ye nurse Mal-
ley Redmond held one point and she the other, and that the nurse mumbled some
words, mentioning Peter and Paul, and that when the nurse said these words, the rid


