
66                              RENFREWSHIRE.

also to the influence of competition, exercised by the neighbouring
ports of Greenock and Glasgow : but it is proper to add, that the
trifling decrease which appears in the census of 1831 has been far
more than made up since that period, as appears from a survey
taken expressly for this work in the summer of 1835, and by which
the population of this town and parish is ascertained to be as fol-
lows, viz.

<TABLE>
         The number of inhabitants,     .       .          6018
	males, 2856; females, 3162
	families,			.	.	1332
	persons under 15 years of age,		.	2122
		between 15 and 30,		.	1910
			30 and 50,		.	1394
                           50 and 70,          .         494
                   above 70,                   .          98

Character of the People.--The inhabitants of this place are ge-
nerally well informed, diligent in business, and liberal in charity.
They may be characterized also as a church-going people.  Dur-
ing the last year, there were only two prisoners confined upon
charges of a serious nature, and a few others for minor offences.
In the year 1790, with a population of 4000, there were no less
than 81 public-houses in the town.  It is gratifying to be able to
state, that in March 1835, and with a population of about 6000,
the number of public-houses had been reduced to 70.  It would
be still more gratifying to be able to add, that the practice of in-
temperance has diminished in the same proportion.  Appearances,
however, do not by any means warrant such a conclusion, and seem
to indicate, that intemperance never prevailed among the lower
classes of society to a wider and more alarming extent than in the
present day.
The people of this place exhibit all those characters and habits
which commonly distinguish the inhabitants of sea-port towns.
Engaged in maritime and mercantile avocations, they cannot be
expected to have either time or taste for the pursuits of literature;
yet many of them have received the advantage of a liberal educa-
tion, and they are, generally speaking, highly respectable in point
of intelligence and judgment.  Nowhere is the principle of attach-
ment to the British constitution and government, both in church
and state, more deeply rooted, more steadfastly maintained, or
more unequivocally expressed, than among the people of Port-
Glasgow.  Few of them possess great wealth, but a large number
are in circumstances of independence.  The working classes are
in general well employed, and obtain good wages.  Upon the
Whole, all ranks of society may be said to enjoy, in a superior de-
gree, the means of comfortable subsistence; and, were they all as


