
     of St Andrew's, Lhanbryd.

empire, bears, "That the annual proportion of births to
the whole people, is about 1 to 26 in the province of French
Hainault."  The number of Seceders is 34, Methodists 7,
Episcopalians 2,736 may be accounted of the Established
Church, although nearly 30 of them prefer more generally
a kind independent preacher, supported by the magistrates
and elders of Elgin*.

   Agriculture, etc.-Grain, eatable roots, and the whole
class of cultivated brassica, the ordinary fruits, and almost
every tree known in Scotland, are raised in the parish,
which has always produced more grain than requisite for
the inhabitants.  The victual-rents disposed of by the pro-
prietors to Highland counties of crop 1782, greatly over-
balanced the supply of meal granted to the poor that year
by the State.  Since the excise on tanning leather obliged
the poorer families to give up making their own shoes,
no hemp has been cultivated; but there is still flax raised,
though only for domestic accommodation.  There are 252
horses, each pair in general managing a plough; 750 black
cattle, a very small number of which are labouring oxen,

<FOOTNOTE>

*This meeting was established about 20 years ago, by one of the mi-
nisters of Elgin, who was prejudiced against the presentee appointed for
his colleague; for the support of which, be bequeathed a capitaI of L. 100
Sterling.  They assemble in an old edifice on the end of the church, built
for the week-day worship of the town's people, in compliance with their
prejudice for holydays, on the abortion of Episcopacy.  The managers
let such seats as have not been claimed; but a subscription by the hearers
is also requisite for the support of the preacher, who has little other con-
nexion with the Church, but that he must be licensed by a presbytery of
the Synod of Ross: While the people of this meeting are content with
the ministration of their respective parishes, unless in the article of ordi-
nary public worship, which some attend from all quarters, at the distance
of 10 or 16 miles.


