
622                          AYRSHIRE.

in possesion of the whole barony of Cunningham and of the ba-
rony of Largys, annexed to the liberties of the said burgh, pro suis
tam mercandisis et mercimoniis in eisdem  libere exercendis,--as
was clearly established hy charters of his Majesty's predecessors
shown in inquest, &c." From these and other documents, it also
appears that the jurisdiction of the magistrates of this burgh ex-
tended formerly over a wide territory; and embraced even crimes
of a capital nature. The burgh records contain accounts of nu-
merous justiciary courts held in the burgh, for trial of capital
crimes. Among others, may be mentioned a justiciary court, of
which there is a full detail, held at Irvine, 20th October 1625,
"per Allanum Dunlop urbis praefectum dicti burgi," for "trial of
Alexander Banks, sone of Robert Banks, flesher, for the slaughter
of Gilbert M'Alister, heilland man, slain,in Stevenston yesterday,
and brought in by the Earl of Eglinton, as baillie of Cunningham,
and repledge it from his court to the jurisdiction of this burgh as
ane of yair inhabitants."
	Generally speaking, the peculiar aDd distinctive power of local
magistrates was restricted almost insensibly, as the laws of the
country were consolidated, and administered on wore comprehen-
sive principle. Of this fact, there is a striking exemplification in
a case reported by Fountainhall, as to the trial of certain mer-
chants in Irvine in the year 1712.
	It had  been the practice of the Irvine merchants to smuggle
Irish corn, stealing it in by night, "at many secret creeks on the
shore." Thomas Gray, merchant in Irvine, and others, were di-
lated before the justices as criminals for this offence, and for their
contumacy in not appearing, were fined in L. 100 Sterling each,
under the penal statutes against the importing of Irish meal.
Gray suspended, and stated various important pleas: lst, That
the burgesses of Irvine were not subject to the jurisdiction of the
county justices, and that the magistrates had the power of repledg-
ing them. This plea was repelled, and the right of repledging
found to be desuetude. 2d,That it was not competent to refer
the fact on which the charge rested, to the oath of party.  This
was also repelled, and the court found it provable by oath, as well
as usury and the like. 3d, That the fine was most exorbitant.
The court found that the offenders should not be all classed alike,
for one who had brought in a boll ot two was not to be so
deeply found, as he who had brought in an hundred, and had re-
iterated his transgression, and a poor man's fine was not by Magna
				4


