
               NEILSTON.                                 317

Cart near Cruikston Castle, so famed, from Mary Queen of Scot-
landhavingfledfromitafterthebattleof,Langside. Thebanks
of this stream, from Waterside Field to the Dovecoteball, is thick
set with population and public works. On its banks, are three large
bleachfields, four printfields, a corn and chipping mill, and six
large cotton-mills, givin- employment to a vast number of men,
women, and ebildren,-all active and industrious.
On the stream flowing from the Kirkton dam, there are four-
bleacbfields, two of them amongst the largest in the county,-one
printfield for Turkev red dveing and calico printing-containing 1 12
tables, and employing, in all, 500 hands ; tvo coal-pits, one mill
for net working, which is now enlarging to double its foruier size,
one corn- mill, and one iron-foundery. On the banks of the Wal-
ton stream, called the Brock, after leaving Walton dam, there is one
bleachfield, atid two extensive printfields for calicoes of all kinds,
garments, silk slia . wls, &c. &e. Both these streamsjoin the Levern.
The Kirkton, at Cross Arthurlie, after a run north-cast of about
two miles, the Brock, after a run north-east, falls into the Levern,
about six or seven miles from its source. The velocity of all
the three streams till they reach the level ground is very consider-
able. Being shallow, their temperature is at times as high as from
40' to 45"
Owing to the height of their sources from the plane, there are,
on them some fine cascades. Above Midgebole, on the Levern,
there'are two splendid ones. There is another above South Arthur-
lie field, and a third at Brownside. But the loveliest of them all are
those at the Killock-Glen. There, in perfect miniature, are seen
the three falls on the Clyde, BonnytOD, Corra, and Stonebyres.
Geology and Mineralogy.-The minerals are the same here in
general as in the parishes around. Lime and ironstone are found
in great abundance, both in the east and west extremities of the
parish. ' Ores of no kind save ironstone are found. here.
In truth, beyond the usual appearances nf trap-rocks, this parish
affords nothing new or interesting to the geologist. But, if it con-
tains nothing peculiar, it has long been known as a rich field to
the collectors of mineralogical specimens.
The most numerous and interesting of these belong to the zeo-
lite family. They are to be seen in various parts of the par'l-.'.-.,
but are more especially found in the grdatest plenty and variety near
Hartfield.
Prehnite ig- the most common of all these minerals, to be met


