
52                           AYRSHIRE.

months after the season opens, he fishes only with drag-nets, in
the rivers; after which, stake-nets are erected, and ten or twelve
men are constantly employed. The fish, besides supplying Ayr
market, are sent to Glasgow, Edinburgh, and Carlisle, and some-
times even to London. Poaching is occasionally detected, but it
is not practised to any great extent.
	White or Sea Fishing.--Ayr is, at all times, supplied with abun-
dance of excellent fish, there being in the market sometimes no fewer
than upwards of twelve varieties. Its port has been long the prin-
cipal fishing station on the west coast; but since the introduction of
navigation, so many facilities have presented themselves for the con-
veyance of fish to the great markets, from other points of the Frith
of Clyde, and particularly from the Argyleshire coast, that many
fishers have removed thither from this place. The number of
boats employed in the trade, at present, does not exceed one-half
of what it was twenty years ago. Formerly, the whole Frith
and all its lochs were tributary to the Ayr fishers, who carried much
of the produce in wherries to Greenock and Glasgow. Now, how-
ever, by the location of fishers on other parts of the coast, they
are limited in their operations to Ayr and its vicinity, and to the
supply of the Ayr market. At present, there are only seven boats
employed, with four men in each, and their attention is wholly di-
rected to the fishing of cod, ling, haddocks, whitings, turbot, skate,
flounders, mackarel, and herrings, for home consumption. All these
kinds of fish are scarce in comparison to what they once were.
This has been attributed by some to severe fishing, and by others to
the comparative absence of herrings, which do not spawn on this west
coast to the extent to which they did formerly. It is a well known
fact, that wherever this fish is in abundance, cod, ling, and turbot,
which are never seen in some places except in company with them,
are `lso to be had in great plenty. In former years, 120 stone of mis-
cellaneous white fish have been often taken in a day, from the Frith
of Clyde by one boat; whereas 70 stone is now reckoned great fish-
ing, and the average weight brought to Ayr, per day, may be stat-
ed, at 12 stone for each boat, during the best of the season, and
5 stone during the worst. Herrings and mackarel are only got in
season, during the summer months.
	In addition to the fish above-mentioned, soles, red gurnard, or
gurnet, halibut, large conger eels, &c. are occasionally taken and
brought to market. Among those found in the bay of no econo-
mical importance are, the porpoise, miller's-thumb, fiddle-fish,
sun-fish, pilot-fish. ink-fish, &c. The grey gurnard is abundant,


