
                                KILMALIE.                       123

     struction in Gaelic; indeed, many of them who can speak in com-
     mon conversation in English cannot follow an English discourse.
        The rising generation imitate their equals in the south country
     in their dress.  Tartan among men, and cotton cloth among women,
     are the common costume.
        The common diet of the peasants is potatoes, with herrings or
     milk.  Such as are in better circumstances may have a little meal
     and mutton; but potatoes is their principal food for three-fourths
     of the year.
        Smuggling and poaching are still carried nn secretly, but not to
     any great extent.  When the proprietors are absent from the coun-
     try for any length of time, idle persons use liberty with the game
     on their property.
                              IV.-INDUSTRY.

        There is not much arable land in this parish, so that the people
     are employed chiefly as fishers or shepherds; neither is there any
     cotton or woollen manufactory.  There is one bank agent at Fort
     William; and about twenty merchants between Fort William and
     Corpach.  There are three medical gentlemen at Fort William, four
     lawyers, and a Sheriff-substitute.  There is a sufficient number of
     carpenters, masons, shoemakers, and tailors, between Fort Wil-
     liam and Corpach, to supply the wants of the parish and adjacent
     country.
        Agriculture.-There is not one acre out of 300 cultivated or
     capable of cultivation in this parish.  Considerable exertions have
     been made by some of the proprietors to drain and improve por-
     tions of land near their own residence; and wherever the attempt
     has been made, the returns have fully repaid the expenses.
        Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is about
     L. 1, 10s. per acre; the average rent for grazing a cow is L. 2 per
     annum; the rate per ewe is from 2s. to 3s. per annum.
        Quarries.-There is a slate quarry on Lochiel's property at
     north Balacbulish; but it has not been much wrought hitherto.
     There is also a stone quarry at Fassfern, which was of great advan-
     tage at the time of making the Caledonian Canal, and lately in
     building a quay at Fort William.
        Fisheries.-Salmon and herring are the principal fisheries in this
     parish.  The river Lochy is famed for the excellency of its salmon.
     There are stake-nets in several places along the coast, and extra-
     ordinar exertions are making, to improve the salmon-fishing.  Time
     will tell how the present speculation will pay the adventurers, but


