
     Statistical Account

ed to by later historians.-John Douglas, of the family of
Pittendriech, was a man of learning.  He was Provost of the
new College of St Andrew's, and afterwards Rector of the
University of that place.  In the year 1571, he was ap-
pointed Archbishop of St Andrew's, and was the first Pro-
testant who enjoyed that See.-Mr John Mair, late Rector
of the Academy at Perth, received his education in this
parish.  His numerous productions, to facilitate the educa-
tion of youth, are well known in all the schools.-Michael
Bruce must not be omitted under this head.  He was born
in Kinnesswood, and very early discovered marks of ge-
nius.  His parents, though in indigent circumstances, sent
him to the University, where he made great progress in se-
veral branches of literature. After his death, which was

<FOOTNOTE>

the people, such a law would be reasonable; for if tradesmen, day-labouree,
and servants, while healthy and in employment, can, by their earnings.
enjoy the comforts of their station in a reasonable degree,  and, at the
same time, spare a little to assist themselves in sickness and old age at
seems equitable to make them contribute to such a fund.  It is only ob-
liging them to reserve a part of what they can spare, for a season in which
it will be needed, while it gives society a security, that they will nor
become a burden upon it.  Besides the sum proposed is not more than
they usually comtribute at the church-doors.  Such a law indeed would
bear hard upon such as can, with difficulty, support themselves and
their families.  But the law obliging to subscribe might not only
admit of different rates of contribution, proportioned to the circumstan-
ces of the contributor, but of some exemprions altogether.  The allow-
ance to which opulent subscribers would be entitled, in case of sickness
or old age, which it is not to be supposed they would accept of, would
go to increase the fund, and to afford something to those whose
circumstances did not permit them to subscribe at all.  By this plan, the
poor would be relieved from the hardships and restraints imposed upon
them, in removing from one place to another, and gaining settlements.
They would be at liberty to settle undisturbed, where wages were
highest, and the necessaries of life must plentiful, secure, that when they
needed support, they would find it in that fund, to the formation of which
they had contributed.


