
230              GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

  Extent, &c.-- Dumbartonshire is situated between 55&deg;, 53, 30"
and 56&deg;, 19', 40", of north latitude; and between 3&deg;, 54', 50", and
4&deg;, 53', of longitude west from Greenwich. On the east it is bound-
ed by the counties of Stirling and Perth, but principally by Stir-
ling, from which it is separated through a considerable portion of
its extent, as far north as Elengavahana by Loch Lomond, above
which the loch is surrounded by the county, including the farms
of Doune and Ardleish on the east, which here march with Perth-
shire. Strathfillan in Perthshire is the entire boundary to the
north, as Argyleshire is to the west, which last is separated from
Dumbartonshire by Loch Long, from the Frith of Clyde to Ar-
rochar. The boundaries on the south are Renfrew and Lanark,
but principally Renfrew, from which it is separated by the estuary
of the Clyde. These boundaries do not embrace the disjoined
portion of this county, including the, parishes of Kirkintilloch and
Cumbernauld, which lie by themselves about six miles east of the
main body of the county, bounding with Stirling on the north and
east, and with Lanark on the south and west. The extreme
length of Dumbartonshire from Kelvin bridge, at the south-east
earner of New East Kilpatrick to Inverarnan brook, at the north
of th parish of Arochar, is about 47 miles. Its breadth at the
southern extremity from east to west is 24 miles; farther north it
is 10; between Tarbet or Loch Lomond, and the head of Loch
Long it is Only about 2 miles broad, at Upper Inveruglass scarcely
so much, and at the northern extremity the widest place is 9 1/2
miles. The detached parishes of Kirkintilloch and Cumbernauld
include a district about 12 miles long from east to west, and from
2 1/2 to 4 miles broad. This isolated portion of the county contains
32 1/2 square miles, and the main body of the county 228--in all
260 1/2 square miles, and about 167,040 English acres.
   Topographical Appearances.--The county of Dumbarton, taken
as a whole, lie the inhabitans scattered over its diversified soil
and varied surface, is in a transition state, between highlands and
lowlands. The scenery to the north and all along Loch Lomond
is for the most part decidedly alpine, and exhibits all the varieties
of the most enchanting and variegated of Highland landscapes.
Although the parish of Arrochar, which forms the entire northern
part of Lenox, be 15 miles long and on an average 3 broad, and
contains about 48 square miles, still so mountainous and irreclaim-
able is its soil that not more than about 400 acres are ever sub-


