
76                             ARGYLESHIRE.

enable Mr Whyte to illustrate some Of his subjects to greater ad-
vantage.
			       IV.--INDUSTRY.

 Agriculture.-- The state of husbandry in this part of the coun-
try has been greatly improved of late years. A considerable ex-
tent of waste land has been brought into a state of cultivation,
and much has been done in rendering what was formerly arable
more productive.  The Marquis of Breadalbane gives great en-
couragement to his tenants and crofters in improving their lands
by draining, ditching, and the work is done at the mutual expense
of landlord and tenants, under the superintendence of an overseer,
who lines out the drains and sees them properly executed, and
then values the work done. From one-half to two-thirds is cre-
dited to the tenants in their rents. The drains are made of va-
rious dimensions, according to the nature of the ground. In some
places, they are built and covered with flags, and in others they
are filled entirely with small stones. In tilly and mossy land, they
are cut according to the thorough draining system, but where
spring water is found rising at the foot of banks, drains of from
four to six feet deep are often made, and found to be very effec-
tive.
  The general stock consist of black-cattle of the west Highland
breed, of which there are excellent folds in the parish selected
and attended to with great care. There are only two or three
sheep stocks, which are mostly of the black-faced kind, and of me-
dium quality.
  There was an Agricultural Society established on the lands of
the Marquis, five years ago, and annual competitions are held for
black-cattle and sheep, at which. premiums are awarded to the
best. Premiums are also given to the best ploughmen, and for
the best kept horses and harness, and for the best plots of turnips,
a crop either to much neglected, but which, it is expected, will soon
be grown more extensively. His Lordship gives prizes also to
those cottars and small tenants who have the best manged gar-
dens. The good effects of these ecouragements are already very
evident.
  The arable land rents, according to quality, from L.1 to L.2, 5s.
per acre, Scots.  The average rent of the mere grazing of a cow
is from L.2  to L.3; of a sheep, from 3s. to 4s. The rate of
wages is from 1s. 4d. to 2s. to day labourers;  and from 2s. to 2s.
                                  4

