
                        EDINBURGH.                         739

   Coach building is prosecuted to a considerable extent, several
large establishments being in full operation.
   As Edinburgh is resorted to by a great number of the gentry
and families from the country as a place of agreeable and fashion-
able residence, and also as a place of education for their families,
a very extensive retail trade is thus formed, and a considerable
portion of the rents of the country gentlemen pass through the
bands of the Edinburgh bankers.
   Imitation India Shawls.-The manufacture of shawls, consisting
of a warp of tram silk and a thread of fine cotton, with a weft of
spun silk, with patterns in imitation of the finest and most ad-
mired India shawls, was first commenced on a small scale in Edin-
burgh in the year 1805, by Mr W. Ferguson, of the firm of Plen-
derleath and Company, linen manufacturers. Specimens of these
shawls were exhibited at the annual exposition of manufactures of
the "Board of Trustees," and being much admired, obtained a
premium. Other individuals subsequently commenced similar
manufactures; but the business, though supposed to have first
commenced in Edinburgh, has never been pushed there to any
great extent.
   Engraving.-This country was not early pre-eminent in the
art of engraving. It is a curious fact, however, that au engraver
of the name of Cooper in Edinburgh was the first teacher of Sir
Robert Strange, whose splendid works are known all over the
world. We have seen plates engraved by this great maw during
the term of his apprenticeship, which were very far from holding
out anvthing like indications of the talent which he afterwards ex-
hibited; but not satisfied with his opportunities here, or in Eng-
land, he travelled to Italy, where he executed a number of exqui-
site drawings from the works of Guido, and other ancient masters,
oiefly in red and black chalks, which afterwards served him as
copies for some of his matchless engravings. Strange was the
first in any country, who, as an engraver, took a comprehensive
view of his art, and leaving the unmeaning details in the mode of
execution then in practice by his contemporaries, and the styles of
his predecessors, Bolswert Fisher, Mark Antonio, &c., he at once
achieved the power of making the lines of his engraving express
the texture of the human skin, and any other substances repre-
sented, together with even the colours of his original. In this re-
spect he was the inventor of this style, and as yet he has had
competitors but no successful rivals, if even admit equals, at


