
				PETTIE.                               403

	herring-fishing.  They are the property of four, we may say five,
	crews, or bands of eight men, who fish in company in one boat for
	haddocks, but who, in the herring-fishing, as the may happen, in-
	dividually, or conjointly, to possess a boat, break up, and hire as
	many as may give a crew of five hands and a boy to each boat.
	   Lads from the West Highlands are engaged for the her-
	ring-season at the rate of about L.4.  They receive in addi-
	tion, perhaps, a barrel of herrings.  When they fish haddocks,
	eight men form the crew.  The fishers look to the herring-season
	as the great source of their income.  Some of them almost despise
	the haddock-fishing as scarcely worth their pains.  They are absent
	at the herring-fishing at Helmsdale, Wick, or Burghhead, about
        six weeks from the middle of July. *
	   It may safely be stated, that there is not along the coast of the
	Moray Frith, on either side, any colony of fishers more deserving
	of encouragement, and who receive less, than the fishers of Pettie.
	They are like the order to which they belong, very stationary in
	their knowledge, not a few of the parents being unable to read,
	and all of them too little disposed to keep their children either
	long or regularly at school.  But they are almost to a man order-
	ly and irreproachable in their conduct, and of industrious habits.
	They are ready to enter the service of the farmers for the labours
	of the harvest, on their return from the herring-fishing; and from
	their residence in the vicinity, they render it practicable to some
	of the farmers to relieve themselves of the necessity of bringing
	shearers from a distance, and of finding them accommodation.
	While they increase the advantages of the district by the supply
	of fish, they purchase from the farmers what they require of meal,
	which, with fish, is their chief, we may say their only food.  From
	there being no pier within a given distance of their dwelling, they
	are not entitled to certain aid, for the repair of their boats, which
	other fishers near a pier receive from the Fishing Board.  A pier,
	to the erection of which the Fishery Board would contribute so
	largely, would be an advantage, not only to the fisher, but to the
	farmer in the saving of strain to his horses in drawing coals and
	lime through a soft beach, without being obliged, as at present,
	to avail himself of moonlight or daylight to suit the state of the
	tides; and by facilitating the shipping of grain or wood.

<FOOTNOTE>* Lesly mentions, that, long before his time, herrings were taken at Inverness. " Mag-
	na halecum ad ipsius littus captura olim percelebre."  We can believe the fact sooner
	than the reason vulgarly assigned, which he gives for their forsaking that coast.  We
	have heard some of the older fishers say, that they have caught fish to the west of
	Altirlies, which they now seek to the east of Fort-George.


