
72                      LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

a similar establishment at Bridgeness for the manufacture of vitriol
or sulphuric acid; and another in Grangepans for the manufac-
ture of sal-ammoniac; but all three are now extinct.
   Navigation.-There are no vessels belonging to the parish; but
about 300 coasters, from 20 to 100 tons, from different ports in
Scotland, and ten foreign vessels, from 50 to 100 tons, ship coals
yearly at Bridgeness. In 1834, bout 400 tons of Leith manure
were imported at Blackness by two neighbouring farmers at 5s.
per ton, employing eight vessels at 50 tons each; and twelve ves-
sels from 20 to 60 tons were employed by the proprietor of the
brick-work in exporting the produce of his manufacture. There
are also occasionally other importations of lime and manure for
agricultural purposes.
                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town, &c.-The nearest market-town is Borrowstoun-
ness, which is about one mile and a-half distant from the church; it
is also the post-town. Linlithgow lies about three miles distant
to the southwest. There are five villages in the parish-Grange-
pans, Bridgeness, Cuffabouts, (supposed to be a corruption of
Cansewayfoot, the original name,) Muirhouses. and Blackness,-the
four last being of very little extent.
   Roads.-The turnpike road from Linlithgow to South Queens-
ferry passes through the south eastern section of the parish for
nearly a mile and a-half, but no public vehicle travels upon it.
Another line of public road is at present in the act of formation
from Grangemouth by Borrowstownness. diverging from the coast
at the church of Carriden, and designed to meet the road above-
mentioned at Champany. A railway, about a mile in length,
having an inclined plane on which the empty waggons are drawn
up by the descent of those that are loaded, was constructed some
years ago for the purpose of conveying the coals from the pits to
the pier of Bridgeness. The other roads in the parish are suffi-
ciently convenient for the purposes of communication, and, for the
most part, kept in a good state of repair.
   Harbours.-The pier of Bridgeness was some year ago ex-
tended, by the proprietor about fifty yards further into the sea, to
secure a greater depth of water for the vessels that repair to it,
and affords excellent accommodation for the purposes for which it
was erected, the trade to which it is serviceable being the exporta-
tion of coals and salt, and the occasional importation of manure and
limestone In former times Blackness was a harbour of conside-


