
                                     REDGORTON.                       165

         be dignified by that appellation : and even they run only a very
         short distance before.tbey fall into the Tay.  They do not now, how-
         ever, follow their natural course, but run in a cut that has been
         made by the Luncarty Company through a steep bank, in the
         nearest line to the Tay.  The lower part of the parish is bounded,
         as already stated, for nearly six miles by the Tay and the Almond
         respectively, which are of the greatest importance to the parish, as
         will be fully noticed under the article Industry.  The only lake in
         the parish worthy of notice is a very small one in the barony of
         Mullion, which never was of any great extent, and which had its
         scanty boundary circumscribed last year by the draining off of a
         considerable proportion of its water.    It is, however, said to be of
         considerable depth.
           Climate-Diseases.-The lower part of the parish lies at a con-
         siderable distance from the Grampians, which are on the north,
         and is still farther removed from the Ochil Hills on the south.
         This circumstance undoubtedly contributes to render the climate
         so dry and healthy as it is.  We frequently see these hills enveloped
         in dense clouds, and know that they and the adjacent lands are
         drenched with torrents of rain, wbilst we are breathing a compa-
         ratively dry atmosphere, or luxuriating in bright sunshine.  The
         parish is accordingly healthy, and free from any local distemper.
         It is stated in the last Statistical Account, that the people are sub-
         ject to ague.  But whether it be from the complete drainage which
         the land has undergone, or from the quantity of wood that has
         been planted and reared, since that date, which of itself takes up a
         quantity of moisture, and through which surface drains are cut in
         all directions, which rapidly run off the water that would otherwise
         be stagnant ; so at least it is, that the ague is now almost entirely
         unknown amongst us.
           Game.- The common kinds of game are i ery abundant: hares,
         rabbits, pheasants, and partridges, with snipe, woodcock, and land-
         rail in their seasons.  The pheasants, however, in proportion as
         the have increased, have diminished the number of partridges.
         For being much the stronger party, though only recent settlers in
         the country, they, in imitation perhaps of a nobler animal, drive
         back the weaker, though aboriginal inhabitants.  Roe-deer are
         frequently met with, in the woods, and now and then a few red-
         deer come down to us in winter, and remaining in the woods do
         great destruction to the crops in summer.
          Geology.-The rocks in this parish belong to the transition
         and old sandstone formations, according to the Wernerian no-


