
128                   DUMBARTONSHIRE.

corn. The patronage Of the church was afterwards acquired by
the Argyle family, with whom it still remains.
  The church, although situated within about two miles from
the southern boundary, from the peculiar form of the parish, is
perhaps more convenient than it could be elsewhere for an equal
number of the people. It was built in 1780, rather prior to the
revival of that taste in architecture which has adorned so maiuy of
our rural districts with convenient or rather elegant churches.
Were it a matter of much importance, one might regret a struc-
ture had not been erected to harmonize in some degree with the
exquisite beauty of the environs. It is an edifice of the oblong or
barn form, and that of the very plainest description. The belfry
must always be excepted, which is singularly symmetrical in its
proportions,--the only relique of that more ancient fabric, which
the modem parallelogram supplanted: cruciform, and dedicated to
the Virgin Mary, * very aged people still speak with considerable
reverence of its venerable and picturesque appearance. Its ex-
ceeding uncomfortableness had determined the heritors to demo-
lish it; and it is very probable that the incurable damp in its
walls may induce, respecting the present church, a similar de-
cision.
  It is, however, sufficiently commodious for the indigenous or or-
dinary population; but in summer, when the cottages and villages
throughout the parish are studded with sea-bathers from the in-
terior, it is often so crowded as to render the congregation very
uncomfortable.
  The living consists of 210 1/2 bolls of meal, 26 3/4 of bear, and
L.8, 10s. in money, with an allowance of L.5 by his Grace the
Duke of Argyle for communion elements. The teinds are ex-
hausted. The glebe contains not more than 6 1/2 acres, the greater
portion of which is very inferior land.
  The manse is newly built, in every respect affording a comfort-
able residence for the minister's family. The former manse, al-
though not an old house, and thoroughly repaired about twenty years
ago, on account of damp, the heritors, perhaps wisely for theme-
selves, at all events most considerately of the minister's comfort,

<FOOTNOTE>This only traditionally,--for in whatever way the assumed sanctity of the place
depended upon the patronage of the Virgin, even in the charter of the twelfth cen-
tury, the church is designated the church of St Nicholas. It is probable the church or
religious house at Kileraigin, originated the relationship, which secures to this isle
the soubriquet of the Virgin promentory, the more popular translation of the name.


