
     of Little Dunkeld.

   Improvements, and Miscellaneous Observations.-The hills are
far from being under proper management.  There is but a

<FOOTNOTE>

lowing curious tradition.  A man, who may be called the Cincinnatus of Scot-
land, happened, along with his two sons, to be ploughing in this field on the
day of the battle of Luncarty.  Hearing the fate of the battle, and seeing the
Scotch army retreating this way, he was instantly fired with heroic indigna-
tion, and together with his sons, seized, each of them, the yoke or an ox-
en plough, persuaded their countrymen to rally, and marching at their head,
they met the Danes on the banks of the Tay, some where near Caputh, where
there was a second action, in which the Danes were completely defeated, and
this aged hero exhibited prodigies of valour; in consequence of which, he was
dignified by his sovereign with peculiar honours, obtained the name of Hay,
and the implement with which he fought, for his arms.-The yoke is still the
arms of the noble family of Kinnoul, who are thought to be descended from
this saviour of his country.
On the south side of the Tay, a mile below Murthly, and opposite to the
field where the engagement just mentioned may have taken place, though one
cannot say with certainty that this was the occasion of it, there is a conside-
rable military entrenchment.  A ditch 600 feet long, and still pretty deep, is
extended from a precipice on the bank of the river southward, along the side of
a deep ravin, on the opposite side of which there is a similar work.  At one
of the angles of the trench are the remains of a circular stone building still 15
feet deep.  This work was probably executed to guard a pass upon the Tay,
which is fordable at this place.
   In a plain on the bank of the Bran, 3 miles above Little Dunkeld, are to be
seen the ruins of the castle of Trochire, formerly one of the seats of the noble
and unfortunate family of Gowrie.  Some parts of the wall are yet standing,
which indicate the antient magnificence of the structure.  When the lands of
that ill fated house were forfeited, Trochrie, and the whole extensive barony
(in some writs it is called Lordship) of Strathbran, was made a grant of by royal
mumficence to William Stewart of Banchrie, a gentleman of the bed chamber
to King James VI.  He was brother to Sir Thomas Stewart of Grundtully,
from whom he inherited the patrimonial estate of that antient and respectable
family; and had attained the honour of knighthood himself before his bro-
ther's death In a commission dated 16th November 1600, appointing Sir
William baillie of Strathbran, and keeper of the king's house of Trochrie,
and of the parks and forests of Strathbran, there is inserted the following


