
502			   DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

originally designed for people upon foot or on horseback. After-
wards (in 1724,) it was widened to admit of carriages. But being
still inconvenient, and probably insecure, it was taken down in 1801;
--and a convenient and substantial bridge erected in its place. About
half a-mile above this bridge, is Glenmarlin Pool, a rocky and nar-
row pass in the river, where the stream descends with such rapidity,
and its waters are so broken as at all times to present a scene of
great interest. It is indeed not unworthy to be compared with the
Rumbling Bridge, near Dunkeld, to which it bears some resem-
blance. There are few more interesting rides in this part of the
country than the road presents along the banks of the Scarr, as
far as Glenquhargan Craig. From the rising ground in the vicinity
of Arkland, the view of the valley, bounded by its wild or wooded
hills, is remarkably sweet. And when the vista opens up with
Chanlock foot in the distance, and apparently terminated by the
round high hill behind, there are few scenes to be met with any
where more picturesque. In summer, sea-trout are brought up by
the heavy rains; and later in the season, salmon in considerable num-
berr. The latter are unfortunately destroyed in close time, it may
be said, almost without let or hinderance. The present state of the
law, as it refers to the Nith and its, tributary streams, is consider-
ed by many to be injudicious. It closes the rivers as early as the
25th of September, when the fish are in excellent order. The
angler is then deprived of his recreation, which might with safety
be extended for several weeks, and the fish are in fact preserved
for those who are less scrupulous about legal prohibitions. On
the other hand, the 10th of March is too early a period for
opening the rivers, as many spawned fish are then taken when
they are nearly useless, and of course before they had returned to
the sea.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.--There is one obelisk in the parish, upon the pro-
perty of Mr Maxwell of Bailford; but no account can be got of it,
worthy of being recorded. It is a narrow pillar about ten feet in
height, with two steps of a stair around its base, or forming the
socket in which it stands. It is covered with a sort of character,
now almost defaced.
	A somewhat curious tradition has come down to us regarding
the stream that separates the parish from Durrisdeer, immediately
opposite Drumlanrig Castle. It is expressed in a couplet, which


