
                            ECHT.                            741

Aboyne, &c. would addd much to the accomodations of travellers.
On the roads here, there are nine small bridges in good repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is nearly centrical, and
is convenient for the greater part of the population.  It was built
in 1804, is in good repair, and very commodious.  When full
The inhabitants are all of the Established Curch, (excepting ten
or twelve individuals), and are regular and decent in their attend
ance on Divine ordinances, and generous and kind to the poor.
The average number of commnunicants is about 500.  No Dissent-
ing or Seceding chapels in the parish.  One of the farmers acts as
an Anabaptist clergyman to a very few members of that persuasion.
The manse was built in 1805, substantially finished, and suit-
able for the incumbent.  The living consist of L.117, 0s. 4 1/2d.
in money, (including the allowances for communion elements;) 88
bolls 1 firlot oatmeal, at 140 imperial pounds to the boll; 4 bolls,
2 firlots, 2 8/6 pecks bear, Aberdeenshire measure; and 1 firlot 2 8/5
pecks malt.  The teinds are valued and exhausted.  The glebe
mesures little more than 4 1/2 acres, is not all of good quality, and
would barely rent at L.10 per annum.  There is no grass glebe, nor
any allowance for it.  The Earl of Fife is patron.  The present
incumbent was translated from South Ronaldshay, in Orkney, and
settled hero in March 1815.
   Education.-The is due parochial school, and two private
school.  One of the latter is supported by an yearly salary of
L.5, paid by the proprietor of cullerley, and by the school-fees.
The other private school is supported by the school-fees alone-
Placed at the northern extremity of the district, the scholars are
chiefly derived from the east end of Cluny, and the west end of
Skene.  The salary of the parochial teacher is L.29, and nearly
L.2 arising from mortified money.  The school-fees may amount,
communibus annis, to L.18 or L.20.  He has a house and garden
of the legal size.  He receives a proportion of Mr. Dick's legacy-
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The funds destined for the sup-
port of the poor arise from the interest of the following sums, viz-
L.300 accumulated from the savings of former years, except two
small legacies amounting nearly to L.60; including L.100 be-
quethed to the session by the late William Forbes, Esq. of Eclit. to
which the poor on the estate of Echt have a preferable claim, if pre-
ferred quarterly by the proprietor; from an annuty of ten merks
Scots left by the late Mr. Duff of Premmay, to which the poor in


