
332                        BERWICKSHIRE.

this Town and to Coldingham. The hour of departure is 8 A. M.,
of arrival 2 P. M. In no part of the country have roads been more
improved than in the county of Berwick, during the last twenty
years, and Eyemouth has received its share of the advantage con-
nected with these improvements; access from this to all parts of
the country being now rendered both easy and safe. About four
miles of road lie within the parish; two miles and three quarters
of which are parochial, and the remainder turnpike road. At Eye-
mouth Bridge the turnpike road divides into two branches, one of
which connects this parish with Ayton, Dunse, &c. by the north
bank of the Eye, and the other by the south; both are maintained in
good order, and the bridges, which respectively cross the Eye and
the Ale, are substantial and in good condition. It may be added,
that Captain Brown has very lately thrown a chain bridge across
the Eye to afford an access to his property of Netherbyres.
   Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church stands in the middle
of the Town, and, though distant a mile and a-half from the extre-
mities of the parish, yet, as so small a part of the population, only
75, resides in the country, it must be said to be conveniently situa-
ted. It was built in 1812, and affords accommodation for about
450 sitters. We cannot say much of the taste which its external
appearance indicates; but we may add, that it is one of the most
comfortable places of worship in this part of the country.* It was
built at the expense of the heritors and feuars of the parish, and
the sittings were allotted among them; but a large proportion, say
150 sittings, belonging to the principal proprietor, and which were
not required for the accommodation of his tenants, are left quite
free to the poorer part of the population. The ordinance of the
Lord's supper is dispensed here twice a-year, and is attended by
from 300 to 320 communicants. Public worship is in general
respectably attended, yet it must be added, that here, as in other
places similarly situated, there are not a few "who forsake the as-
sembling of themselves together."
   The number of families attending the Established church may
be stated at 250; those attending the chapels of Dissenters and
Seceders at 30. These go to Coldingham and Ayton, at which
villages there are meeting-houses connected with the Associate
Synod. There is a Baptist chapel in the town, which is not attend-
ed by more than four or five members.
   Collections are made in church occasionally for charitable and re-

<FOOTNOTE>A new school and schoolmaster's house were also built in 1821.
                                 4


