
82			   PERTHSHIRE.

coopers, slaters, plasterers, glaziers and masons. Its income
was, in 1833, L.774, 7s. 1d. arising from entry-money, recording
indentures, house rents, and church seat rents. Tailor Corpo-
ration consists of two sciences, tailors, staymakers. Its income
(arising from the usual sources) was, in 1833, L.238, 2s. 6d.
  The Flesher Corporation * consists of one science. Its income
(arising from the usual sources) was, in 1832, L.132, 7s. 6d. The
Shoemaker Corporation consists of one science. The income (from
the usual sources) in 1833, was about L.139, 13s. 3d. The Wea-
vers are not a corporation. They have no right of being represent-
ed in the council, and do not exercise exclusive privileges. In 1629,
there was an appointment by the council of a deacon of the wea-
vers.
  The building in which the town-council have their deliberations
on the affairs of the city, is at the eastern termination of the High
Stredt, in the immediate proximity of the old shore. It was erect-
ed under the authority of an act of the Privy-council, obtained in
the year 1696, and comprehended not only the council-room but a
clerk's chamber, (now the chamberlain's office,) and a pack (weigh)
house. One of the reasons assigned in the application for the act
was, that the council bad to meet in the session-house of the kirk.
It was built by William Miln, wright, at Dupplin, and cost 7,500
merks.
  Particular attention was paid to the ornarnenting and furnishing
of the room. A painter was employed to adorn the chimney-piece,
and "furnish a landscape." Orders were given to provide three
dozen of "good rusbie leather chairs" and a large tablle, and a
carpet for it; the carpet to be purchased in Edinburgh, and, if not
found there, to be purchased in London.
  In the city records 1696, there is an act for paying the "build-

<FOOTNOTE>St Peter was the tutelar saint of this corporation. In former times they had
an altar before their seat in the Old Church illuminated with wax lights. For sup-
porting this altar a tax was laid on all slaughtered cattle. which was usually called
Patie's alturage penny. The tax was regularly exacted till 1760, when it was abo-
lished by the civil authorities as a relic of popery. Before 1761 the corporation had
no market-place. They had stalls in the South Street;-that was their exclusive privi-
lege. Those who brought meat to the town for sale, brought it slung across horses'
backs, and they were required to stand with it in this condition on the South Street
till it was sold; the incorporation having the sole right of erecting shambles. But
in 1761, the College Yard, lately a public bowling green, was converted into a market-
place for them; for a considerable time it was the only place in the town where meat
was expsosed to sale, but of law years it has been almost entirely deserted, the fleshers
finding it their interest to erect shops in different quarters over the town. In 1821,
the council converted the northern division of it into market-places for poultry, ve-
getetables, and butter.


