                            WICK.                                139                 

where it is traditionally reported that an Earl Alexander was slain.
Who he was, or whence he drew his title, is not known.
Along the coast, are four very ancient strongholds, three of which
are in ruins.  The Castle of Auld Wick is perhaps one of
oldest buildings in Caithness. It stands to the south of Wick
Bay, on a lofty peninsular rock projecting into ihe,Moray Frith
and consists at present of the grim remains of a strong tower -of
the rudest masonry, with the merest slits for windows.  The space
behind it towards the sea, bas been occupied with two ranges of lower
buildings, the foundations of which are yet traceable.  On the
very point of the projecting rock, is a flat smooth space, surrounded
by the remains of a wall, which appears to have been a kind of
garden, promenade, or bowling-green.  Rude steps lead down to
the sea.  The whole has been defended on the land-side by a
deep ditch, over which communication has been held with the land
by means of a drawbridge.  The ruins of this black unsightly
tower still nearly three stories,bigb, form an excellent land-mark
to sailors, by whom it is called the Aul' Man o' Wick.
The Castle of Auld Wickwas, in the beginning of the fourteenth,
century, one of the strongholds of Sir Reginald de Cheyne.  On his
death, before 1350, it passed into the possession of Nicholas Suth.
erland, second son of K nneth Earl of Sutherland, and ancestor                     e
of the Barons of Duffus, who married Marjory, second daughter
of Sir Reginald.  The castle and lands of Auld   Wick after-
wards went by marriage into the family of Oliphant; and tradition
says that a Lord Oliphant was slain in a rencounter not far from the
tower.  By the Olipbants they were sold to the Earl of Caithness;
by a subsequent earl, they were disposed of to Glenorchy, by whom
they were sold to Dunbar of Hempriggs, and finally by the mar-
riage of Sir:Jarnes Sutherland, second son of James, second Lord
Duffus, -with Elizabeth, daughter and heiress of Sir William Dun-.
bar of Hempriggs, the lands and castle of Auld Wick have come
into the possession of the present Lord Dufflus, the lineal male re-
presentative of Nicholas Sutherland and Marjory de Cheyne.
The Castle of Girnigoe, which stands a little to the West of
Noss-Head, was the chief baronial stronghold 'of the Sinclairso
Earls of Caithness.  Its ruins occupy the whole surface of a  bold
peninsular rock, which, starting from a shoulder,of the mainland,
shelters a goe or inlet of some width,, whence-the castle,reoeiviDd
its name.  The ruins are evidently of different ages. The date


