
1126                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

Craigievar, now almost exhausted, the wood is of recent plantation,
the greater part, indeed, within the last twenty years. It consists
mostly of larch and Scots fir. The larches in many places are
failing, but the firs are vigorous.
    Rent of Land.-The average rent may be stated at 15s. per
acre imperial. This would give a real rental of about L.4000,
which is believed to be very near the truth. The period of lease
is now uniformly nineteen years.
    Husbandry, &c,-What is called the seven-shift rotation is gene-
rally in use, but the six-shift is now recommended by some compe-
tent authorities, and partially adopted. The soil and climate are
well adapted for grass and turnips, but not so favourable for grain,
especially in late seasons. Very few sheep are now kept, and the
Aberdeenshire horned or polled breed of black cattle is that ge-
nerally reared.
    Farm-Steadinqs, &c.-These have been very much improved of
late years. There are four meal-mills in the parish, and one carding
and spinning-mill, where woollen fabrics for blankets, plaids, &c.
are manufactured to a small extent. There are now 45 thrashing-
mills in the parish; nineteen driven by water, and twenty-six by
horses. The ploughs are all drawn by two horses or two oxen;
and of the former there are 104; of the latter, 18.
    Recent Improvements.--It may be safely asserted that no parish
in Aberdeenshire has of late made more rapid advances in every
branch of agricultural improvement. It is equally certain, that Sir
John Forbes, Bart. of Craigievar, who, on the death of his brother
Sir Arthur in 1823, succeeded to the family honours and estates,
has been the mainspring of the improvements effected. Sir John
is truly a model of a country gentleman. The Rev. Mr Lumsden
of Cushnie has, for several years, paid us an annual visit, and
shown himself anxious to encourage his tenants in improving their
farms. William M'Combie, Esq. of Lenturk, has lately got the
mains or home-farm into his own possession, and, by beginning to
plant and furrow-drain, has already given a sample of those exten-
sive and tasteful improvements by which be has so much embel-
lished his beautiful seat of Easter Skene. About 700 acres of bar-
ren ground have been reclaimed within the last thirty years.

<TABLE=Produce>
     Produce.-
The yearly produce may be briefly stated in round numbers at 8000 quarters of
     grain at L. 1,                                          L.8000 0  0
And 500 black-cattle at L.8,                                   4000 0  0
                                                            ------------
                                       Carry over,  Total,  L.12000 0  0


