
			LEGERWOOD.                              357

though also in need of shelter, so successful has been Mr Mur-
ray's treatment of the cultivated land, that much of his crop is not
surpassed in the county, while his stock likewise bears a high cha-
racter. On the farm of West Morriston, a considerable part of the
regularly cultivated land is well sheltered and enclosed, and has been
drained gradually with care,-While, on the pasture land, a simple
but efficacious surface draining has lately been executed by a
plough of Mr Sumner's own invention. The farm of Whitslaid
appears to be well fenced, and has thriving plantations; and on
Birkenside, extensive improvements, conducted with great judg-
ment, are in progress. Dodds, the property of John Spottiswoode,
Esq. of Spottiswoode, is, as to the larger part, subdivided; and
through the spirit of the tenant, and the landlord's liberal and pru-
dent encouragement, 100 acres of land have lately been improved.
And the farm of Boon, the most extensive in the parish, is about
to be suitably enclosed and subdivided, immediately on the entrance
of the tenant upon a new lease, at Whitsunday next.  These
changes must shortly be of great benefit, both to the appearance
and the qualities of the land.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce yearly
raised in the parish may be as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all, kinds, whether cultivated for food of man or the domestic
animals,                                                            L. 5889 0   0
Of turnips,                                                            1735 0   0
Of hay, whether meadow or cultivated,                                   700 0   0
Of land in pasture, rating it at L.3, 10s. per cow or full-grown ox,
   grazed or that may be grazed for the season, and at 15s. per ewe
   or full-grown sheep, pastured or that may be pastured for the year, 3450  0  0
There are no market gardens in the parish: The produce of the
various kitchen gardens and of the fruit trees may be                    18  0  9
								      			 ________
		Total yearly value of raw produce raised,             L. 11,792  0  0

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Means of Communication.-The means of communication are
ample. The road from Kelso to Edinburgh passes along the east
side of the parish, and that from Hawick, along the west; and there
is a post-office both at Lauder and Earlston. There are about ten
miles of parish road; upon which, and on turnpike roads within the
parish, are nine bridges in tolerable repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is placed on the north-
ern ascent of the valley, which has been mentioned as passing
across the parish; and it is conveniently situated for the bulk of
the population. Excepting on the extreme northern limit of the pa-
rish, which is inhabited, and is three miles and a-half distant, none


