
		CORTACHY AND CLOVA.                          445

peerage having placed Earl Walter's family, as to their rank, in
an undefined position, King George IV., in 1826, graciously
amended it, by causing Parliament, as and act of justice, to reverse
the attainders of James and David, Lords Ogilvy; but the act to
relieve all the family of Earl Walter "from certain civil disabili-
ties" did nnt profess, to be an act of restoration, the peerage never
having been forfeited by Act of Parliament.
        Land-owners.-The Right Honourable the Earl of Airlie, Lord
Lieutenant of the county of Forfar, and one of the representative
peers of Scotland, is sole proprietor of Cortachy, and patron of
the churches of the united parish. His Lordship's brother,
Colonel the, Honourable Donald Ogilvy, is sole proprietor of
Clova.
        Parochial Registers.-There are four volumes of old parochial
records. The date of their earliest entry is November 1659, and
they are brought down to 1732, with the exception of the year
from 1687 to 1697. They appear to have been regularly kept.
They contain registers of contract of marriages, of births and bap-
tisms, and give a particular account of the proceeding of the
kirk-session. From these records it appears, that, at the periods
when they were written, the lands of the united parish were divid-
ed amongst several proprietors. There are another four volumes
of paroclrial registers, beginning in 1747, and continued down to
the present time, in reference to sessional proceedings and con-
tracts of marriage. They appear to have been pretty regularly
kept. The only irregularity seems to have arisen from the negli-
gence of parents, in registering the births and baptisms of their
children. Thir hs a duty, to the performance of which, many pa-
rents are still inattentive.
        Antiquities.-In the church-yard of Cortachy there are some
tombstones of considerable antiquity. Two of these were placed
inside the former church, and though their position was unavoida-
bly altered when the church was rebuilt, they have been, properly
cared for: one of them, having inscribed on it various figures and
letters, bears date 1616; the other, of fine stone, and the work
on it better executed, appears to be of older date. It has several
figures finely engraven on it, but the inscription has become it
legible.
	The ruins of a religious house, called the chapel of Lethnot, are
still to be seen, about four miles to the north of the church of Cor-
tachy. About half a mile to the west of the church of Clova,


