
392			LANARKSHIRE.

extended 33 feet from the steeple, has long since been entirely
demolished. The church was rebuilt in 1794. The old steeple
still remains at about the same distance from the new church as it
did from the old; the bell was made in Holland in 1635, by Mi-
chael Burgerhwys,
	The church of Rutherglen is rendered famous on account of
two transactions in which the fate of Sir William Wallace and of
his country were deeply concerned. It was in this place of wor-
ship that a peace between Scotland and England was concluded on
8th February 1297.

          In Ruglen kirk ye traist yan haiff yai set
          A promes maid to meit Wallace but let
          Ye day offyis approchyt wondyr fast
          Ye get Chanslar and Amar yidder past,
          Syne Wallace come, and hys men weill beseyne
          With hym fifty arayet all in greyne,
          Ilk ane of yaim a bow and arrowis bar,
          And lang swerds, ye whilk full scharply schar, &c.*
It was in this place also that Sir John Monteath contracted with
the English to betray Wallace.
          A messynger Schir Amar, has gart pass
          On to Schir Jhon, and sone a tryst has set
          At Ruglati kirk yir twa togydder met,
          Yan Wallang said, Schir Jhon yow know yis thing, &c. +
	Patronage and Ministers.++-- The right of patronage was ancient-
ly lodged in the abbots of Paisley. After the Reformation it be-

<FOOTNOTE>Henry's Life of Wallace. B. vi v. 852.    + Ibid. B. xi. v. 796.
          Ministers since the Reformation.--I. John Muirhead, son of the laird of Car-
luke, admitted on 16th December 1586. He left Rutherglen and went to Glassford,
or parsonage of Castle Sympell, on 8th December 1587. Mr Muirhead and the laird
of Cleland-town and his friends had a quarrel, in the course of which Mr John was put
in fear of his life, and durst not attend to his cure. Mr John Hamilton, provost of
Bothwell, was directed to endeavour to make peace. At length Lord Hamilton set-
tled the difference between the lairds of Cleland-town and Carluke.--2. Alexander
Rowat, from Dalziel, admitted 25th April 1592. In 1595, he went to be minister of
the Barony parish of Glasgow, and to Calder in 1615. Lord Hamilton having failed
to pay his stipend, is supplicated by Mr James Crawfurd of Farme.--3 Archibald
Glen, admitted 30th March 1596. He was a man of great abilities and learning. He
left Rutherglen and went to Carmunnock in 1603.--4. William Hamilton, son of
John Hamilton of newton, admitted 18th April 1604.--Mr Hamilton gave in his presen-
tation to the rectory of Rutherglen from the master of Paisley in a different form from
that of Mr Glen, the last minister.--5. Robert Young,admitted on 21 st August 1611
His son William was ordained assistant and successor to his father on 28th May 1647.
He was succeeded by another assistant, of whom Principal Baillie in his letters says,
"He was a manikin of small parts." The laird of Shawfield, patron.--6. John
Dickson was third assistant to Mr Young, and succeeded him in the charge. It ap-
pears from Wodrow's Church History, that on 13th October 1660, Mr Dickson was
brought before the Committee of Estates, and confined in the Tolbooth of Edinburgh,
in consequence of information given by Sir James Hamilton of Eliestown, and some
of his parishioners, of some expressions he had used in a sermon alleged to reflect upon
the Government and the committee, tending to sedition and division. This good man
was kept in prison till the Parliament met. His church was vacated in 1660, and he
was kept a prisoner in the Bass for nearly seven years. The church was given to Mr
Hugh Blair Junior, who was ordained in 1661: he remained till the revolution 1688,
when he was turned out and Mr Dickson replaced, where he continued till his death


