
               		STEVENSTON.                           431
not only the riches of harvest, but scenes of sylvan beauty. Here,
instead of the timid rabbit burrowing in the sand, the sprightly
deer must have bounded through the glade, and the wild bison
(Bos urus,) must have at one time strayed; for the antlers of the
former, and the skull of the latter, have, within the remembrance
of some still alive, been dug up in this barren tract.*
	But barren though it now be, it is not devoid of objects of in-
terest and curiosity. In exploring this wilderness lately, we ob-
served in a section of one of the sand-hills laid bare by the wind, a.
dark coloured stratum of considerable thickness, which proved to
be partly peat, and partly loam or vegetable mould. On closer
inspection, we found that the stratum was separated from the su-
perincumbent sand by what was like a rusty plate of iron about an
eighth of an inch in thickness, and easily broken. At various places,
this iron-like substance descended several feet into the sand, in
hollow pillars tapering downwards like great icicles. These were
generally firmer and thicker than the horizontal plates, and with
more of a metallic lustre when broken. These were rather
puzzling appearances, but we attempted to account for them as
follows.
	There are still to be found among these sand-hills little lagoons
(Scotice lochans) full of water, except during the heat of summer.
The stratum of moss and mould has probably been formed in the
progress of many years, by the partial decay in the case of the
moss, and by the total decomposition in the case of the mould,--
of the water plants that grew in these little ponds. The rusty
plate, on examination, proved to be sand bound together by a de-
position of oxide of iron; and every person must have observed,
that chalybeate waters deposit an ochreous matter on sand which
they moisten. The total disappearance of the little ponds must
have been owing either to the breaking down of the side of the
hills, or to the hollows, in which they were formed, being filled up
with drifted sand. The sand is constantly shifting, and conse-
quently these iron-like plates are sometimes bare on the surface,
and at other times deeply covered with sand. That the pillars
are deposited by water impregnated with iron, is rendered likely by
information that we lately received, that similar pillars are formed
in the workings under-ground, descending as great stalactites from

<FOOTNOTE>We have seen the skull of the bison, which was in the possession of Patrick War-
ner, Esq. of Ardeer; but it, was stolen. One pair of fossil antlers is in Ardeer House,
and another pair in the possession of R. Cuninghame, Esq. Se-Bank, were found
at Misk, 22 feet under ground.


