
                                    AYR.                                  45

<TABLE>
	Years.	      Marriages.  	Births.       	Deaths.
	1831,	          87	          150	          158
	1832,	          60	          171	          260.	Year of the cholera.
         1833,              79                134               118
	1834,	          78	          154	          178
         1835,              70                144               174
	1836,	          89	          115	          163

   From the above details, it will appear that Ayr is progressing in point
of population; though slowly, yet as steadily as most other towns in
Scotland of the same rank, where the increase is not dependent on
contingent or temporary causes, such as manufactories and other
extensive public works. It has little of this kind to depend on, for
its prosperity. The produce of mechanical labour in very few ar-
ticles exceeds, and in many falls short, of the consumption of the
inhabitants. Hence the population is mostly indigenous, with
the exception of some families of Irish labourers of the poorer
class, who have been induced to become resident here, as in
most other towns in the west of Scotland, from no strong tempta-
tions as to remunerative employment, but because any change
whatever from their miserable condition in their own country was
likely to be a change for the better. Those of the natives, how-
ever, with whom they mingle in the same station, have little cause to
thank them for settling among them, not only as they keep down
the price of labour by competition, and curtail the chances of em-
ployment, but because they have tended in no small degree to demo-
ralize their characters, and to undo the sturdy feelings of indepen-
dence, for which Scotchmen, until of late, had been so much dis-
tinguished, by inducing them to become claimants and sharers alike
with them in public charities, in which they think they have a bet-
ter right to participate than strangers.
   Character.--In exhibiting an estimate of the character of our
population, it may be as well to begin with the lowest class,--those
in a state of pauperism, or borderin upon it; and here we are
compelled to acknowledge that they have been greatly deteriorat-
ed of late years, both in their civil and moral condition, from the
cause we have noticed above. There are few places where the
poor are better attended to and provided for than in Ayr, and
they know this full well. Practical benevolence to the needy and
distressed is a readings characteristic of the inhabitants, and one
of the fruits of this has been, that numerous charitable bequests,
mortifications, institutions, exist for mitigating or removing in
one shape or other the evils of poverty. These, however, have in
some respects had an opposite effect from that designed, as they


