
                         BANCHORY-TERNAN.                    337

Garioch and Buchan. Subsequently it became also the route of
pilgrims from these districts to the shrine of Palladius at For-
doun; but the first recorded notice the writer has been able to
obtain of the possession of property within the parish, although
the chartulary of Arbroath must contain several previous, is A. D.
1233, when King Alexander II, by a charter dated at Kyn-
tor," confirmed a grant made by the celebrated Allan the
Durward to the monks of the Abbey of Arbroath of the wood of
"Trostach," lying between the waters of "De and Kanyn."
	It is stated by Robertson, (" General View of Kincardine-
shire, App.  IX.,") on the authority of the Rev. Dr Keith of
Keith Hall, that this parish formed "anciently a part of the
extensive domains of Fraser, Thane of Cowie, who, by mar-
riage, was connected with the Royal family; and in consequenbe

of his desire to have all his territories placed under his own juris-
diction, as lord-lieutenant or sheriff of the Mearns, it was attach-
ed to that county," though formerly belonging to Aberdeenshire.
"It came afterwards under the rule of the Great Marischal, Sir
Robert (William ?) Keith, who married a (grand ?)-daughter of
that chief, and was continued afterwards to be conjoined to that
county, although the territorial connection with its judges had
ceased." This Thane of Cowie seems to have been Sir Alexan-
der, nephew of the famous Sir Simon Fraser, "who was with his
uncle at the battle of Methven, 1306, and who, adhering after-
wards to the interest of King Robert Bruce, was honoured with
the marriage of Lady Margaret, the King's sister."
	In 1324, King Robert Bruce gave to Alexander de Burnard,
(an ancestor of the present Sir Thomas Burnet of Leys,) "dilecto,
et fideli suo pro debitis in quibus sibi tenebatur the lands of,
"Killienach Clerach," in Dromoak, together With lands in Ban-
chory, "within his forest of 'Drom,' and without the park of the
said forest." These latter seem to have comprehended about one-
half of this parish north of the Dee; the other half was then
in the possession of the convent of Arbroatb, to which also the
cure and tithes of the parish belonged.
	In 1479, the lands of Tilwhilly were held bx Valter Ogston,
of Ogston, (near Fettetcairo,) under the abbot and convent of
Arbtoath as the superiors; but David Douglas, grandson of James.
the second lord of Dalkeitb, having married his daughter Janet,
they passed into the possession of his descendants.
        " At Banq&deg;reterne, 12 Junii 1491.  In pns of ane Rycht no-
	KINCARDINE.                                   Y


