
316                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   Climate,&c.-The climate of a district is of course greatly influ-
enced by its situation and exposure; and, in a parish like Kiltearn,
where all varieties exist, from the maritime low grounds to heights
some thousand feet above the level of the sea, great differences are
found to exist. During the prevalence of the southerly and westerly
winds from the Atlantic, the weather, though often rainy, is not
so cold as when they below from the east and north-east over the
frozen countries in the north of Europe. The air on the higher
grounds is often cold and moist; but the cultivated district that
rises gradually from the sea to the hills, enjoys a climate second
to none in Scotland. A favourable testimony to the healthfulness
of the climate is afforded by the many instances of longevity which
have occurred. Persons have been known to attain to the great
age of 100, 107,and even 117 years. Several live to 80, and 70
is by no means an uncommon age. The prevalent disorders are
colds, coughs, influenza, and rheumatism, and these are more
severe during easterly winds. *
   Zoology.-There are no rare species of animals in the parish, but
such as are common throughout the country. Wolves existed in
former times; foxes were numerous till lately, and a few are yet
occasionally seen. Badgers and Polecats are found, though in very
inconsiderable numbers. Some rabbits were introduced a few
years ago, and they have since that time multiplied so amazingly
as to have become a serious annoyance. The hills abound with
deer and all kinds of moor game, and on Wyvis are found ptar-
migans and mountain hares.
   Various kinds of shell-fish are found on the shore, as mussels,
cockles, and welks. There are also some banks where, in the pro-
per season, and at a certain state of the tide, good oysters may be
gathered. The salmon tribe enter the streams about the end of
June, and in the beginning of October ascend for the purpose of
depositing their spawn. The fry descend to the sea vith the floods
in January and February, and reascend in autumn as salmon trout
and grilses. In the lochs and streams are found several varieties
of trouts, in considerable numbers.

                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Family of Munro of Fowlis.-- Tradition relates, that when

<FOOTNOTE>The gradual deterioration of the climate for many years is a subject of universal
remark. Some seem disposed to regard this as an idle fancy, but it is apprehended
without any just grounds. It is an undoubted fact, that several years ago, the crops
were secured much earlier than at present; this is the more remarkable, as the
system, or management was then very defective, and many varieties of early seed
have been since introduced.


