
1100                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

pied every alternate Sabbath evening as a place of worship for the
families in the place, as they have not sitting in the parish church.
On the other Sabbath evenings, the younger branches of the fa-
milies attend for instruction in the Sabbath school, under the care
of the schoolmaster of the place, with three assistants connected
with the works.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         Means of Communication.-There are two branches nf turnpike-
road leading to the west from Aberdeen, (which is distant only
six miles from their junction at the east boundary of the parish),
the one branch running nearly through the middle of the parish
towards Alford and Stratbdon; the other, more to the south, to-
wards Tarland and, Kincardine. A stage-coach passes by the for-
mer line, every alternate day, from Aberdeen to Alford. A mail-
gig runs daily on the same line; and there is a sub-post-office
near the centre of the parish. The disposable produce of this and
the surrounding parishes finds a ready market in the town of Aber-
deen. Coals, lime, and bone-manure are brought from Aberdeen.
The commutation-roads are now kept in a much better state of
repair than formerly.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1801; has been,
Jately repaired by the heritors; is centrically placed for the pa-
rishioners; but is now rather small, being seated for 700, whilst
there are 800 communicants; and the preceding table of the po-
pulation shows an increase of 706 since the year in which the
church was built. The manse was built in 1779, and contained
only four rooms and two small attics; but, with an addition lately
given by the heritors, without solicitation it is now amply commo-
dious. The glebe contains ten acres of land, part of which was
brought into cultivation by the last incumbent, having been fnr-
merly pasture or grass glebe. The stipend is one of the small
livings, made up to L.150 by the Exchequer. In some years it
exceeds this amount, as some of the heritors pay their proportions
by the fiars' prices.
	There is a small Congregational Chapel in the parish, seated for
2OO hearers, the members* of which belong partly to this and partly
to the adjoining parishes. Their present pastor is well educated,
and is an acceptable and faithful labourer among his popple.
         Education,-The parish school is centrically situated. There
is an average attendance of from 8O, to 90 scholars in winter, and
from 40 to 50 in summer. The ordinary branches of education are

<FOOTNOTE>There are not above twelve families members within the parish.


