
                         MID-CALDER.                  377

moving the glebe at so inconvenient a distance from the range
and village. This exchange led to many improvements, and was
the occasion of very considerable expenses to both parties. It
greatly added to the beauty of the access to Calder House, and,
in time, will add to the value of the glebe to future incumbents.
The approach to Calder House now runs along a beautiful bank
through the old glebe, which has been greatly ornamented by
planting. Considerable sums have also been laid out on the new
glebe, which is now let at L.1, 10s. per acre, exclusive of the
roads and strips of planting.  The whole teind of the pa-
risb, which was valued in 1647, at that time amounted only to
1250 merks, or L.69, 8s. 10 8/12D., from which, after deducting
L.8, 6s. 8d. the legal allowance for communion elements, there
remains of free teind only L.61, 2s. 2 8/12d.; but, by the Govern-
ment bounty, the minister receives L.88, 17s. 10d. Sterling per
annum, to make up his stipend, in terms of the late Act of Par-
liament, to L.150, besides the L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
Although there was no free tend in this parish, the heritors, in
1805, with the exception of two or three, presented the present
incumbent with a bond for a voluntary augmentation of one-half
more than the stipend they were legally bound to pay.
 There is one Seceding meeting-house or chapel in this parish,
which was erected in 1765. It is beautifully situated on the north
bank of the Almond Water, near the village, and can accom-
modate nearly 400 sitters. About 90 seats are let to the people
of this parish, including those occupied by paupers, which are
paid out of their session funds. Between 70 and 80 of the
commuoicants belong to this parish, and the other members
are from the neighbouring districts. The emoluments amount to,
L.100, arising from seat-rents and collections, with a house and
garden, and a little more than two acres of land for a glebe. Be-
sides this, the present minister has a salary of L.50, as Professor
of Pastoral Theology and Ecclesiastical History, and, during the
discharge of the duties of this office, be resides in Edinburgh for
the two months of August and September, teaching four hours
every lawful day, Saturday, excepted, and the number of students
attending his class is about 70. There are only two Episcopal
and one Catholic family in this parish. The anchor of commu-
nicants in the Established Church is from 340 to 400.
  Education,-Besides the parochial, there are in six day and three


