
     Statistical Account

tenants, in their leases, are bound to carry all their grindable
corn to some particular mill, and to pay certain different rates
for grinding it, viz. a boll for 16, 21, 24 bolls.  The far-
mer, or the mill-master on that account, pays to the heritor
a high rent for his mill, and the other tenants strive to have
as little grindable corn as possible.  By this means, he is in-
jured, and they complain that they are not allowed to grind
at any mill what quantity of victual they please.  This has
been the occasion of very serious contests before the Civil
Court; both disagreeing about, and explaining in their own
way, the terms of the contract.  Formerly, the tenants
ploughed with oxen, as well as horses; but now the former
are entirely laid aside, unless in a few farms, where they oc-
casionally employ them in the plough, wain, or drag-harrow.
The farmers pay for their land in this parish, from 5 s, 10 s, 12 s,
15 s, to 25 s, 30 s, and 40 s, per acre; but the last high prices
are only given about Mary-kirk, by those who have other
employments besides their farm, or on account of an inn, a
meal and barley mill.  There are 6 mills in the parish; 3 on
Luther-water, and 3 on the North Esk.  Two of them have
all the machinery necessary for barley.  We have no manu-
factures of any kind; but we expect, that when the bridge is
erected, we shall have every thing set to right; and strong
motives to excite our industry.  The tenants have inclosed
very little of their farms, unless here and there a field or two
for their own accommodation and convenience.  And the reason
they give is, that they have short leases, many of them not
above 19 years; for this is the longest period now commonly
given.  The heritors have all the grounds surrounding their
mansion houses regularly and neatly inclosed, with a stone or
earth dyke, ditch, and quick set hedge; and the proprietor
of Balmakewan has lately surrounded all his farm with an
earth and stone dyke; but the fields on the water fide near


