
     of Walls and Sandness.

duces very rich crops of bear, oats, and potatoes.  Being
partly sandy, it agrees best with sea-weed for manure, the
want of which has frequently reduced the place to scarcity;
though in plentiful years it can afford a considerable suppy
to other parishes.  The grass it produces is remarkably
rich.  It labours, however, under two great disadvantages,
the scatald, or common, is very small, and the fuel is nei-
ther good nor plenty.  It has several small voes, which
serve as secure harbours for fishing sloops during summer.
These sloops, when the weather is favourable, leave the land
on Monday, and stay at sea upon the fishing bank till Satur-
day, when they put a shore the fishes they have caught.
Each sloop has generally 4 six-oared boats that accompany
it.  They go to a very great distance from the land.  Here
the Northumberland Company, for the Improvement and
Extension of Fisheries, have had for some years past 3 or 4
vessels stationed for the catching of cod, tulk, and ling; but
as their exertions were accompanied with greater expence
than the Shetland fishing, they seem to be giving it up.
They have been equally unsuccessful in their attempts upon
the coast for the lobster fishing.  There are some beaches in
this island, in which the fish are cured; and convenient
houses have been lately erected by the poprietor, and let
annually at a moderate rent.-Fowla is 3 miles in length,
and 1 1/2 in breadth.  It is situated at the distance of 18 miles
from the nearest land.  This island is very bold and steep
on the west side.  The inhabitants are remarkable for be-
ing active and alert rowers.  There is only one landing
place, called Ham; it lies on the east side, and is generally,
during summer, occupied by 16 fishing boats, 11 of which
belong to Walls.  This island is inhabited by 26 families,
who, although ther is not sufficient land for supporting
them with provisions, yet, they are so attached to the place,
that they are unwilling to leave it; rather choosing to put


