
624                      ARGYLESHIRE.

and religious objects connected with the parish. The assistant's
salary hitherto has never been under L.70, and has been rather in-
creasing annually than diminishing,--amounting the last two years
to L.90, L.100, and upwards.
   There is one Dissenting chapel in the united. parish, situated in
Dunoon, in connection with the Associate Synod. This is the
only Dissenting place of worship. Within the last year, a manse
has been built for the minister 'of this congregation.
   The whole of the families in the parish, with the exception of
those adhering to the Dissenting congregation, are in the habit of
attending the Established Church; and excepting also a few in-
dividuals and families in the two villages, either fugitives from dis-
cipline, or not professing to belong to any religious denomination.
The average attendance of persons of all ages attending the Es-
tablished Church varies, as in the statement following, from the
circumstance of the villages being watering-places of considerable
resort during the summer and autumn months : average attend-
ance at Dunoon during the winter and spring, 450 ; at Kilmun,
220; at Dunoon during summer and autumn, 860; at Kilmun,
380; at Toward chapel, alternate Sabbaths, 180; at Ardentinny
chapel throughout the year, 80.
  There are four or five families, Episcopalians, permanently re-
sident at present in the parish. Respectable persons of that com-
munion generally attend the services of the Established Church,
whether permanently resident or resorting to it as visitors in sum-
mer and autumn, and probably some also the Dissenting chapel.
Frequently fugitives from discipline, here as elsewhere, profess
to belong to that communion. There are at present, so far
as known, only three Roman Catholics resident in the united
parish. The attendance upon Divine service at the different
places of worship connected with the Establishment through-
out the parish may be called good; but is less so in the village of
Dunoon than it might be. It is believed that the attendance at
the Dissenting chapel is equally good in proportion to the num-
ber adhering to that communion.
   The average number of communicants in the united parish is
627.
   There are no societies for religious purposes established in the
parish: the annual contributions to the schemes of the Church are
made parochially. The united parish has, in this manner, con-
tributed to the several schemes of the Church, during the last four


