
			STRONSAY AND EDAY.                     161

	and Mr Laing of Papdale has shown, on a considerable scale, that
	Cheviot and Merino sheep, or a mixture of them, thrive very well.
	  The crops of grey oats and bicr , in favourable seasons, have a
	considerable appearance on the ground; and, considering the mode
	of culture, are fully as good (particularly the bigg) as can be ex-
	pected.  It may be observed, however, that here it is not easy to
	specify the returns from a particular field, as the farmers are not
	in the practice of computing the produce by the acre.  When the
	ground is in good condition, the crop of white oats and barley
	has an admirable appearance; and, when the filling season is
	favourable, approaches to the excellency of the same crops in the
	southern parts of Scotland.  The soil and climate are extremely
	well adapted for the culture of turnips, potatoes, and artificial
	grasses, such as clover and rye-grass; and very fine crops, parti-
	cularly of the two first, have been raised in this quarter.
	   Of the great farms, renting from L. 100 to L. 200 per annum,
	the leases are generally of nineteen years duration.  Of farms of
	more moderate extent, the leases are in some cases shorter.  And
	most of the smallest farms were let from year to year, until about
	two years ago, when the proprietor of Eday let these for the same
	period of nineteen years as the rest of his farms.  It may be ob-
	served, as a peculiarity of these islands, that the farms are let for
	a gross rent, and not by the acre.  Most of the farms have a con-
	siderable proportion of pasture ground attached to the arable.
	   Several of the dwelling-houses on the farms are rather unsuit-
	able; but not a few of them particularly on the largest farms, are
	comfortable dwellings, consisting of more stories than one.  The
	same distinction applies to the offices on the farms, the smaller
	ones being rather mean, while the largest farms have offices spa-
	cious and substantial.  They are, in general, erected by the pro-
	prietors; and for the most part are in a state of progressive im-
	provement.  Three of the farmers in these parishes have thrash-
	ing-macbines turned by horses.  Most of the ground is unenclos-
	ed; but on several of the largest farms, some substantial stone dikes
	have, within the last few years, been erected.
	   The greatest part of Eday being covered with mose, presents a
	great obstacle to agricultural improvement, though it is to be allow-
	ed that this is of the greatest benefit to the inhabitants for fuel,
	and contributes a considerable share of the same important
	commodity to the inhabitants of several of the adjacent islands,
          ORKNEY.                     L


