
     Statistical Account

grand master, he was empowered to regulate and determine
every matter in dispute, between the founders and builders of
churches and monasteries, and which it would have been im-
proper to have decided by a court of law.  King James II.
conferred the office of grand master on WILLIAM SINCLAIR,
Earl of ORKNEY and Baron of ROSLIN.  By another deed of
the same king, this office was made hereditary in this very
ancient and illustrious family.  Earl William, and his succes-
sors, barons of Roslin, held their head courts, or, in the style
of masonry, assembled their GRAND LODGES, at Kilwinning,
as being the mother lodge, or the place where regular and
stated lodges had first been held in Scotland.  The sobriety
and decency of the brethren in all their meetings, the very
peculiar and distinguishing union and harmony, in which they
lived together, and their humanity and liberality to the sick
and indigent, made the mother lodge highly respected in the
16th century.  An uncommon spirit for masonry then disco-
vered itself.  Laws, founded on the original acts and constitu-
tions of the mother lodge, were renewed, and are still inva-
riably adhered to.  This is evident from her records still
extant*.

   Archery.-It is well known, that in former times, the bow
and arrow were used in war throughout the whole of Europe.
By one or more of the old acts of the Scotch parliament, the

<FOOTNOTE>

*These records contain a succession of grand masters, charters of erection to
other lodges, as daughters of the mother lodge, etc.  The Earls of Eglin-
toune have successively patronized this lodge.  Some years ago, the present
Earl made a donation to the fraternity of a face of ground, for building a new
and very elegant lodge; and, with many other gentlemen, anxious to preserve
the rights of the very ancient and venerable mother lodge, liberally contributed
to its erection.  There is a common seal, expressive of the antiquity of the mo-
ther lodge, and of the emblems of the ancient art of masonry, and by which
charters, and all other public deeds of the society, are ratified.


