
COLLESSIE.	35

house of any description in the parish; but there are about 80
families of dissenters, who go to their several places of worship in
adjoining parishes. There are 135 niale heads of families upon
the parochial roll, who have the right of exercising the veto, in
conformity with the, recent enactment of the General Assembly,
among whom are included all the lieritors, and every farmer in the
parish. There are 330 communicants in the Established Church,
and 8 elders.
The manse is a very comfortable and commodious house, much
improved and eiilarged,-almost, indeed, renewed within the last
fourteen years. If, for the personal comfort of the minister and
his family, it is, like many of the manses in Fife, tno much in the
village, he has the advantage at least of being near the scene of
his ministerial labours. The glebe is of not more than the le-
gal size, but the land is of good quality. The stipend is 15 chal-
ders of grain, half meal, and half barley, a small sum for vicarage.
and grass money, with the usual allowance for communion ele-
ments. The last augmentation was granted in 1822. There is
a considerable amount of unexhausted teind.
The church is an exceedingly uncomfortable and ill-adapted
structure. It is one of the few remaining long and narrow build-
ings, that seem to have been common in the country in Ro-
man Catholic times. It is 75 feet long, by 25 broad. The pul-
pit is in the middle, and there are galleries to the right and left
of it. Some of the -old seats that remain bear the date of the
fifteenth century. From its original situation, or by the accumu-
lation of graves in the church-yard in which it stands, it is sunk
some feet below the level of the ground, and is in the winter sea-
son cold and damp in the extreme. It cannot, at the utmost, be seated
for more than 400 hearers; and, besides being too small for the po-
pulation of the parish, it is irremediably defective in form, and can
by Do repair be rendered commodious or comfortable. There is
no remedy but in a new one, which it is hoped will soon be erected.
Poor.- The poor of the parhsh are amply supported by the volun-
tary collections made at the church doors. Our heritors for the most
part being 'resident, and such of them as are not so occasionally-
coming to church, or sending their contributions,-alth6ugh there
is no fund or vested property for charitable purposes,-the kirk-ses-
Sion has been able, for the last three years, during the incumbency
of the present minister, to meet, from the source alluded to,
the exig,&iieies of the poor. There is a prevailing 6pinion of the


