
62                        DUMBARTONSHIRE.

too early an age; an evil for which, it is hoped, a partial remedy
will soon be provided by the erection of an infant school at Miln-
gavie, (erected in 1835.) In that village the proportion of persons
above six years of age who have not received some degree of edu-
cation, is about three in every hundred ; but with many the degree
of it is so small, that they can scarce be said to be able to read.
Over the parish, the average proportion attending school is one-
tenth of the population.
   Literature.--We have two libraries; one of them kept at Miln-
gavie, and the other in the parish school-room. They are both
supported by annual subscription, and the latter is much read.
The books are chiefly religious, biographical, historical, and agri-
cultural.
   Savings Banks, &c.--Several ears aoo a savings bank was esta-
blished, but, not meeting with encouragement, it has been discon-
tinued. The nearest to which the inhabitants have access, are at
Mary-Hill and Glasgow; but it is believed that little money is
lodged in them from this parish. A friendly society maintained its
ground for a good many years; but whether from some defect in
its constitution, or from mismanagement of its funds, it was found
necessary to dissolve it; and at present we have no institution of
the kind, to the regret of the well-wisbers of the labouring classes.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--In the year 1831, which we se-
lect for the sake of comparison by the Government census, and as
being quite an average year, the sum expended on cases of pauper-
ism was L. 173, 9s. 11d. Of this sum there went to the support
of the ordinary poor, L.127, 9s. ; occasional poor, L.27, 11s.
10d; board of a lunatic, L.13, 7s. 7d. ; funeral expenses, L. 5,
1s. 6d.The number of ordinary poor throughout the year was
3s, so that the average allowance to each was 6s. per calendar
month. The population being 3090, the charge to each inhabi-
tant would be 1s. 11/2d; and the rental of the parish being L.11,500,
the burden on the land would be 31/2d. in the pound, supposing the
land to bear the whole charge. But we have an annual revenue
of about L.95, arising from the following sources:-Church door
collections, average L. 58; interest of L.520 at 4 percent. L. 20,
16s ; interest of L.40 at 5 per cent. L.2 ; hearse and mortcloth
hire, average L. 10; private baptisms, average L.1, l0s.; fines
for immorality, average L. 3; total, L. 95, 6s. By a voluntary
contributions proportioned to their several valuations, the heritor
make up what is awanting to meet the charges; a plan that is


