
176                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

permanent list of poor. On two sides, they are surrounded by un-
inhabited and uncultivated mountains, and on the other side by a
country more than one-half of which remain in permanent pas-
ture. There are no trade, commerce, or manufactures carried
on in the parish. It is, therefore, obviously impossible that the
neighbourhood should furnish employment and subsistence to one-
half of the 1000 persons residing in Town and Kirk Yetholm,
especially as farmers have, residing on their land, and under their
roof, the requisite number of farm-servants. The consequences
have been, smuggling and an excessive proportion of pauperism.
To diminish, therefore, the number of houses, would be to dimi-
nish the vice and pauperism of the parish.
   Fairs, Inns, &c.-There are two annual fairs in each of the vil-
lages: the Kirk Yetholm summer fair being for the sale of Cheviot
hogs, and cattle: the Town Yetholm summer fair being, for lambs
and wool: the Kirk Yetholm winter fair is for the sale of ewes,
wedders, and cattle: at the Town Yetholm winter fair, nothing is
now done. There are three or four inns in Town Yetholm, and
three in Kirk Yetholm. Some of these furnish comfortable ac-
commodation for travellers. Besides these there are seven houses
where ale and spirits are sold, and the latter chiefly for the Eng-
lish market. The imperial weights and measures are now univer-
sally used.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
The parish of Yetholm is far from manure and markets. Its
situation on the borders of England presents great temptation to
smuggling; and the assessment for the relief of the poor is very
high. The comforts of the industrious part of the population would
be increased, the poor rates would be lightened, smuggling would
be permanently prevented, and the morals of the people improved,
by the diminution of the town, and by the equalization of the duty
on spirits in both kingdoms. There is no improvement so much
wanted in the parish as planting, both for utility and ornament. I
have already mentioned the disadvantage to the parish, arising from
the insufficient state of the church. The non-residence of heritors
may be mentioned as another disadvantage. Were these disad-
vantages removed, the salubrity of the atmosphere, and beauty and
variety of the scenery, might induce persons is more comfortable
circumstances to settle in the parish.

   Revised January 1835.
                                  3


