
482                         FIFESHIRE.

tions of Disseuters amounted to 344, while the whole number of
Dissenters was 697. Of this number 328 were in connection with
the United  Associate Synod, 150 with the Original Burghers,
108 with the Episcopalians, and 111 with the Independents.
  A Bible Society and a Missionary Society have been established
in the city for many years. The annual amount of their contri-
butions is about L. 30, and the annual average of church collee-
tions for religious purposes is nearly to the same amount.
    Education.-Prior to the year 1834, there were in the parish
seventeen schools, but strictly speaking no parochial school exist-
ed among the number, its place being supplied by the burgh
school, so that the heritors of the parish were not burdened with
the payment of a schoolmaster's salary. Two of the schools in
the city, viz. the English and grammar schools, had hitherto been
supported in part by endowment from the common funds of the
city. And two of the schools in the country districts have each a
small house, garden, and salary attached to them, and one of them
viz. that of Strathkinness, has, in addition to these, six acres of
arable ground, which were allotted to it many years ago, on the
division of a commonty among the conterminous beritors. The
others were dependent eivtirely on the school-fees. In some of
them, the reading of English was the only branch taught, in others
there were combined with it writing and arithmetic. In the gram-
mar-sehool, the master confined himself to the teaching of Latin
and Greek. The school fees varied considerably in the different
schools. In some, they were as low as 2s. a quarter. In the burgh
English school, the highest charge did not exceed L. I a year;
and in the grammar-school it-was fixed at L. 2, 2s.
   The Madras College.--In May 1831, the Rev. Dr Andrew
Bell, one  of the prebendaries of Westminster, the deviser of the
Madras or national system of education, and a native of St An-
draws, transferred into -the joint names of the provost of the city
of St Andrews, the two ministers of the parish, and the Professor.
of Greek in the University, two several sums of L. 60,000, three
per cent. reduced annuities, and L. 60,000 three per cent. consols,
for purposes connected with education to be afterwards more ful-
ly detailed. And about two months afterwards, be and the said
parties as trustees, executed a declaration of trusts, relative to the
apropriation of the said sums, in which it is narrated, that as the
progress of the Madras System of Education had been but slow
and imperfect in his native country of Scotland, he, the munifi-


