
70                            INVERNESS-SHIRE.

cially in the military world. James Macpherson, Esq. the cele-
brated translator of the poems of Ossian, and author of several
original works in prose and verse, was a native of this parish.  He
was born in 1738, in the village of Ruthven, where he afterwards
for some time taught the parish school.  Mr Macpherson's lite-
rary history is well known, and his talents as a writer universally
acknowledged.  His version of the bard of the Gael has acquired
for him a high, extensive, and lasting fame.  About the year 1790,
he purchased a beautiful property lying chiefly in this, and partly
in the neighbouring parish, to which he gave the name of Belle-
ville.  On this property he resided occasionally till the period of
his death in 1796, when his remains were, at his own request, de'
posited in the Poet's Corner of Westminster Abbey.  His estates
descended to his eldest son, who possessed them till he died in
April 1833, when they fell to his elder sister, who now eDjoys
them.  The natives of this parish, who have -risen to high rank in
the army, are so numerous, that it would be both tedious and use-
less to particularize them.  It has the honour of numbering among
these, the late Lieutena Dt-General John MacIntyre of E. 1. C. S.
and Sir John MILean, who is still alive,-the former born at Knap-
pacb, the latter at Pitmain, men who have eminently distinguished
them selves in the service of their country.
Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers up to the year 1724,
were unfortunately burnt, so that the earliest entry of those exist-
Ing is dated at that period. The earlier parts of the records now

of the calamity led the common people in the country to refer it to some supernatu-
ral agency, or atleast to the shock of an earthquake or to lightning.  But an avalanche,
or fall of snow, seems to account for all the circumstances connected with it. The im-
mense bank of snow referred to as involving the building lay in a straight line from
the foot of a very steep part at the top ofthe hill, to very near a stream which mean-
dered at its base.  The snow was very broad and deep throughout, but gradually de-
creased in depth as it approached its termination below.  Beyond the boundaries of
this bank, the snow was quite thin on all sides, and in a few days was completely gone.
The rubbish of the house, as well as the body last found, all lay in the direction of the
valley below; the bodies of Captain M'P_____ and another of the party, were in-
clined in this direction also; clearly indicating that the force which destroyed them
operated in the direction of a line from the top of the hill to its base; and it is known
that the wind blew with terrific violence in this direction likewise, which would of
course greatly augment the weight and force of the falling snow.  The notion of an
avalanche being the cause of the sad catastrophe, is further supported by the fact, that
in the interval between the time of its occurrence and the discovery of the body last
found, in the middle of spring, an immense body of snow fell from the same hill, and
rested immediately at the back of where the house had stood, and in all probability
would have proceeded farther, had it not beeh stopped by the opposing force of the
snow that fell before, which was still very deep.  This lump measured 24 feet deep
by 16 broad.  And several years thereafter, a similar fall from a hill about a mile to
the east, had force sufficient to break ice of a foot thick, which covered a small lake
below, and to dash the water of it to a considerable distance upon the opposite hill.
   The event now described excited a deep interest among all classes.


