
426                        FORFARSHIRE.

nix, the hooded crow, chiefly on the higher mountains. Scolopax
arquata, curlew, and Chatadrius pluvialis, golden plover, breed on
the hills. Tetrao tetrix, the blackcock. Birds of this species
had become pretty numerous until the winter of last year, when
many of them were destroyed by the severity of the storm. Tetrao
Lagopus, the ptarmigan, in the highest mountains of the parish; T.
attagen or Scoticus, red grouse or moorfowl. This species is found
in all seasons of the year as far south as the hill of Kilry, although
in largest numbers towards the head of the parish. Falco peregrinus,
peregrine falcon. Birds of this species frequent the rocks of Auch-
rannie, also the cliffs at the entrance of Caanlochan. Lacerta
agilis, the nimble lizard; L. vulgaris, common lhzard.

	The salmon is not found in the Isla above the slug of Auch-
rannie. Common trouts are abundant in all the streams of the
parish, but are rather inconsiderable in size.

	Botany.--The Glenisla district abounds in alpine plants, more
particularly Caanlochan, the small valley already mentioned as si-
tuated at the head of the parish, and where the mountains attain
an elevation of upwards of 3000 feet. To this part of the glen
the attention of botanists has been more especially directed, and
here it is that they have met with the rarest species in Britain,
and even with plants which are peculiar to this station alone. The
vegetation on all the elevated hills of the glen is similar to that of
other mountainous districts in Scotland. The following list, with
which I have been kindly favoured by Professor Balfour of Glas-
gow, will prove interesting to the botanist. It enumerates plants
which ard of rare occurrence on our Scottish Alps, but which grow
in considerable abundance in Caanlochan, viz.  Thalictrum alpi-
num; Thluspi alpestre, a plant found nowhere in Scotland except
in Caanlochan. Lychnis alpina, a species for which the only
British station is on little Gilrannoch, near the head of Glenisla,
Potentilla alpestris, Dryas octopetala, Cherleria sedoides, Cerastium
alpinum, Saxifraga nivalis, Erigeron alpinus, Sausstrda alpina;
Sonchus alpinus, one of the rarest British plants found in three or
four stations in Caanlochan. Azalea procumbens, Pyrola rotundi-
folia, Gentiana nivalis, a plant, the only British stations for which
are Caanlochan and Ben Lawers. Veronica alpina and saxatilis,
Salix reticulata, lanata, arbutifolia, Juncus trifidus  and castaneus,
Carex atrata, phaeostachya, rariflora and aquatilis, Alopecurus al-
pinus, Phleum alpinum, and Aira alpina.


