
     Statistical Account

   Name, Situation, Extent, and Surface.-There are various
etymologies given of Jura.  Some think that it was so deno-
minated from the great quantity of yew trees which grew in
the island.  The name of the yew, in Gaelic, is Juar; hence,
they say, Juarey; and, in a contracted form, Jurey, the island
of Yew Trees.  Buchanan says, that the ancient name of the
island was Dera, which, in the Gothic language, signifies a
stag.  This account of the name seems the most probable, as
there is still a considerable number of deer in the island, and,
as the Gael pronounce it Diura, very near the Gothic Dera.
The tutelary saint of the island was Fernadal; from him the
burying-ground is denominated Kil-shearnadail, or the Cell
of Fernadal; also a large oblong stone on the shore, 3 miles
S. W. from the Cell, Leac-shearnadail, or the stone of Fer
nadal; and a farm, 2 miles N. E. of the Cell, Ard-Shearna-
dail, or the hill of Fernadal.  The island of Jura, with its
appendage of little islands at the N. end, stretches along op-
posite the coast of Cregnish, of Knapdale, and nearly as far
S. as the N. end of Gigha.  Towards the S. end it may be
about 6 leagues from the continent, towards the middle a-
bout 3, and at the N. end not above 1.  The length of the 
island is about 30 miles, the breadth various, but no where,
it is believed, above 7 miles.  As there has been no actual
survey, the length and breadth are not exactly ascertained.
The appearance of the island is very romantick, and calcu-
lated to raise sublime emotions in the spectators soul.  There
is a ridge of towering mountains, which run from S. to N.
along the W. side, terminating the prospect from the conti-
nent, and very often covered with clouds and darkness.  These
mountains are 4 in number.  That to the S. is called Bein-
achaolais, or the Peack of the Sound, as it stands over the
Sound of Ilay; the next Bein-an-oer, or the Gold Peak; the
third a Bhein-sheunta, the Consecrated Peak; and that to the
 

