
     Statistical Account

briation was too prevalent.  Then ale and a few drams
constituted the treat; now punch is more common.  Those
three alehouses serve chiefly for the accommodation of tra-
vellers, and of persons who meet to transact business.  I do
not perceive that they are prejudicial to the morals of the
parishioners.  In this place it is rare to fee a person intoxi-
cated with liquor*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*I do not mean here to affirm, that we are free from excess of every
kind.  All clasess exceed in the use of tea and tobacco, particularly of the
latter, as it is consumed in snuffing, chewing, and smoking.  This last
species of coarse luxury is too much practised by both sexes.  I have
known some persons so much enslaved to it, that they carried their to-
bacco-pipe with them on Sunday, for the purpose of smoking on the way
to and from church.
   Dr Cullen very properly classes tobacco among sedatives or narcotics.
The smoking of it occasions to beginners fits of sickness, severe, although
of short duration, and sometimes proves an emetic.  In long practition-
ers, it produces some degree of torpor and low spirits, or disposes to sleep.
In melancholy people, it tends to increase the disease.  It also impairs the
eye-sight, and some have thought that it is adverse to the genial powers.
   It is to be regretted that so large remittances are sent from these king-
doms, to procure a very pernicious article of luxury When America
was a part of the British Empire this branch of commerce was encou-
raged as a favour done to our colonies.  For their sake, the cultivation of
tobacco was prohibited in Britain.  One who is but little conversant in
politics would think, that this indulgence ought to have terminated with
the commencement of the American revolt, or of American independ-
ence.  But this claims not much attention, if we could be supplied with
a better substitute.  Such a substitute might, perhaps, be found in camo-
mile flowers.  By mixing them with tobacco in smoking, a flavour is pro-
duced much more agreeable than that of tobacco alone.  I believe that they
are applicable to most of the uses to which tobacco may be applied.
They are less noxious and posses more virtues.  They are, or they ought
to be, an ingredient in the British herb tobacco, and British herb snuff.
By chewing a few of them, a slight disorder of the stomach may be re-
moved.  In attacks of the wind-colic many have recourse to tobacco; ca-
momile flowers are preferable; and the chewing of them might be found
useful in cases of dyspepsy or atrophy.


