
                    AYR.                                33

dies in Edinburgh. In 1793 he married Margaret Muir, daugh-
ter of Robert Muir, Esq. of Blairston, through whom he succeed-
ed to that estate. In improving it, he took great interest and de-
light, and was in the practice of spending his summer months at
Blairston House, now the patrimonial inheritance of his son, Elias
Cathcart, Esq. Advocate, but now called Auchendrane--a beautiful
and romantic residence in the old castle style, situated close on the
banks of the Doon, about four miles distant from Ayr. The small
but rich estate of Greenfield was also the property of his Lord-
ship, inherited from his father, who purchased it, and resided there
during the latter years of his life. On a corner of this estate,
stands the old ruin of Alloway Kirk, from which he took his title,
when he was raised to the Bench as a Lord of Session. This
highly respected Judge was also, at the time of his death, one of
the Lords of the High Court of Justiciary. He died at Blairston
in April 1829, at the age of 65, and was interred, in the venerable
ruin of Alloway Kirk, where a plain but tasteful mausoleum has
been erected to his memory.
	John Mair.-- Mr John Mair was, many years ago, a distin-
guised teacher in the schools of this burgh, from which he re-
moved to Perth: he has acquired deserved celebrity as the author
of several popular school-books, well known, and still used in
public seminaries. The books we mean are, Mair's Introduction,
his System of Arithmetic, and his Book-keeping, &c. which were
composed, if not published, while he was a schoolmaster in this
town, and which show a knowledge of the Latin language, and of
the principles of mercantile business, of no common kind.
	Professor Jackson.--The late Dr Thomas Jackson, Professor
of Natural Philosophy in the University of St Andrews, was for
several. years Recter of Ayr Academy,-the duties of which situa-
tion, he discharged with consummte ability and success. Dr Jack-
son's talents were of the first order, and his acquireiments were as
extensive as his mental powers were acute and profound. He was
fitted to excel in every department of science and literature. He
was almost a universal scholar, and it is well known that he taught
the Greek class in St Andrews with as much ability and success,
as if he had made Grecian literature his special study and profes-
sion. So averse was he to all superficial pretensions, that unlike
a great proportion of those who aim at distinction, and do not in
reality deserved one-half of the merit which they claim, or which
they get sometimes,-- the world might safely give him credit
	AYR.                      C


