
     of Lecropt.

more elevated parts of the parish, the farmers rear more
cows, and pay considerable attention to the dairy, which to
them is a great source of profit.  Their soil is well adapted
for pasture, whereas the clay soil is more productive in bear-
ing crops of grain.  There is no mountainous ground in the
parish, and therefore there are no sheep farms; some large
inclosures, which are let to graziers, are stocked with sheep:
And from the richness of their grass, and their vicinity to
the market, they make good returns.

   Moss.-It is evident, from a variety of circumstances, that
the flat land in this neighbourhood was formerly covered
with a stratum of moss.  This moss was composed of the de-
ciduous parts of trees, which sprung up from the rich bed
of clay that was exposed, when the sea retired from that ex-
tensive valley, in which the Forth flows from the head of
Monteath to Borrowstounness.  Marine shells are found in
the body of this clay.  The roots of large trees are found
adhering to its surface, and their trunks and branches are
mingled with the moss above; which is a sufficient proof
that there was no moss when the trees were growing*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*By what cause those trees, which in this valley are mostly
oak, were felled, is not, perhaps, so evident; but by whatever
cause this took place, when the trees fell, the whole plain must
have been an immense and wild morass, when the water from
the higher grounds was interrupted in its progress, and render-
ed stagnant by leaves, and branches, and large logs of wood.
The richness of the soil below would soon produce a rank
growth of the long grasses, and other plants peculiar to marshy
ground.  When the surface was somewhat consolidated by the
annual decay of these plants, it would become a vast quag-mire,
acquiring a gradual consistency, enabling it to carry heath on
the top.  From being flow moss it would become firmer, espe-
cially at the sides, where there was least water, and where the
moss was less deep, by reason of the higher ground dipping in-


