
86			 	BUTESHIRE.

cular to the north and east, narrow and difficult of acces towards
the south, with a level space of some extent on the summit.
Alon the verge of this space, towards the west and south, are the
remains of a wall built apparently for the defence of the place,
where it was accessible, the precipitousness of the rock serv-
ing for a natural defence on the other sides. The external parts
of this wall appear to have been completely vitrified. The heart
is formed of stone partially fused. The stone chiefly used in the
structure is whinstone, of which the rock itself is composed. The
station is a very advantageous one. It commands the most natu-
ral. and perhaps the best landing-place on the whole coast; and
it affords a complete view seawards, at on ee of the passage from the
western se by Kilbranan sound, and of the entrance into the
Frith of Clyde from the south. All surmises as to its era or use
are now vain. It has been conjdctured to have been a Danish
fort; its name would rather point it out to have been a hold, oc-
cupied, for whatever purpose, by inhabitants of the neighbouring
eastern or southern coasts who, in common with those who dwelt
in  the interior southern portion of Scotland, were usually describ-
ed in the gaelic tongue by the term signifying Lowlander, as re-
tained in the designation of this place.
  Towards the centre of the peninsula, stands the ruin of the
church or chapel of St Blane, supposed to have been founded by
the sain whose name it bears, who flourished about the close of
the tenth century. That a church existed here at a period not
much posterior, and that he was commonly regarded as having
been a benefactor to it, there is evidence still extant to show. In a
charter given by Allan, son of Walter the Second, Great Steward of
Scotland, date before the year 1204, conveying, certainly grants to
the monastery of the Clunian order at Paisley, is contained the fol-
lowing clanse:"Alen, for the benefit of the soul of King David,
and the soul of King Malcolm, nad the souls of Walter my Father,
and Eschene my mother, and for the salvation of our Lord Wi-
liam, King of Scotland, and hid hehrs, and the salvation of myself

<FOOTNOTE>Praterea ago ipse pro anima regis David, at pro anima regis Malcolmi, at pro
anima patris mai Walteri, et matris mess Eschene, at pro salute domini nostri Wilel-
mi regis Scottie, et heredum suorum, et pre salute ipsrus, et beredum meorum,
dono, coneedo, et bac mea carta confirmo eidem domui de Passelet, et monachie ibi-
dem Deo servientibus, ecclestain de Kingaift in insula de Bots, cum omnibus capellis
et toth paroobia ejusdem insale, et cum to terra quam sanetus Blanissicum dicitur?
olim cinxit a mari naque ad mare per metas certas apparentes."  Registrum Mo-
nasterii de Passelet.  Printed by the Maitland Club.



