
                            NORTH UIST.                              167

   or channels of the strands, and on the adjacent shallows without, are
   very fine large flounder, little inferior to turbot. The great re-
   source for sustenance, particularly in a season of scarcity, is the
   cockle-a sbell-fish of no large dimension, which is found in inex-
   haustible abundance on the strands, where, on the retiring of the
   tide, hundreds of people are seen collecting them. They are an ex-
   cellent and nutritious food; made lip into stews with some milk and
   with a little bread, tbey form a principal part of the diet of poor
   people in seasons of scarcity. As an article of luxury, they form
   excellent sauce with fish of every description, and used raw they
   are little inferior to oysters. Besides this valuable shell-fish, there
   are razor- fish, spout-fisb, welks, muscles, limpets, and in many parts
   lobsters, crabs, clams, &c.
      The cockle, besides its importance as an article of food, is of
   importance in some manufactures. Its shell when burned forms
   the best lime known. In strength, it is superior to any other, and
   in whiteness it vies with snow itself. In a manufacture of kelp in-
   to soda, lately erected by Lord Macdonald at Lochmaddy, the
   cockle shell is used in place of lime.
      The quantity required for this, and used for lime in this parish,
   cannot be of less value than L.200 a-year.
      Botany.-It is not our intention to enter into any lengthened de-
   tail on this subject, but merely to mention a few grasses and plants
   which are converted to the immediate benefit of the inhabitants.
   Amongst these the most generally and beneficially used is the
   bent, a grass which grows in the driest sand-banks to the height
   of from one to two feet. It is very tough, and in some degree
   elastic, and is used by the poor people for many purposes, such as
   mounting, for their crooksaddlesand creels, sacks for their corn, meal,
   &c. It makes excellent mats for doors and passages. But its
   principal use is, to plant it for the suppression of sand drift. The
   wild spinage and wild carrot are used for food ; the tormentil.
   root, for barking leather the rue water-lily root and crottle,
   for dyes ; the hemlock, foxglove, tussilago, wild thyme, and tre-
   foil are used medicinally; the black and red slock or laver, found
   on the rocks, makes excellent soup; and dulse is used in a raw
   and boiled state. Here we mdy mention. also, a kind of earth found
   in the moors, used for cleaning metals, called moine nan urnud and
   an earth termed dubhoch, used with other mixtures for dyes.
      The insect most injurious to vegetation, and particularly de-


