
396   			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	There are three other schools in the town, besides one in the
upper district of the parish, and another in the west division. The
schools in the burgh are well attended, particulary one of them,
which in the winter season is attended by more than 80 scho-
lars. There is also an excellent school for girls kept by a most
respectable and well-educated person, assisted by her niece, in which
sewing and other useful practical branches of female education are
ably taught.
	The average number of scholars for the last seven years who
have attended the Hightae school, amounts to 51. The fees are
considerably lower than in the burgh school. The salary is one
chalder of meal, collected from a great number of heritors, by
the merks value, with the interest of L. 100 at five per cent.
There are none of the present generation upwards of fifteen years
of age who cannot read and write. There is a Sunday school under
the management of the Burgher clergyman and hig assistants,
which is well attended. There is also another at Hightae. These
schools are supported by public collections in their own chapels.
	Literature.--A new library was instituted in 1819. One of the
original subscribers was the celebrated African traveller, Captain
Hugh Clapperton, who was at that time residing in Lochmaben
with his aunt, a descendant of Johnstone of Thornewhate, who
was formerly an extensive proprietor in the parish. This library
is very select, and the most approved works in the various depart-
ments of literature and history are annually added.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--In this large and populous parish
no regular assessments have as yet been made, the heritors prefer-
ring to make up the deficiency, when necessary, by voluntary contri-
butions. There are, at the present time, upon the poors' roll 34 per-
sons, besides a considerable number who occasionally receive relief.
The sum disbursed last year amounted to L. 81, 10s. 7d., of which
one fatuous person received L. 10, and some old and feeble indi-
viduals L.4 each. The weekly collections average nearly 16s.,--
which sum, along with what arises from the proclamtion of mar-
riages, mortcloth dues, and fines inflicted for immoral conduct and
irregular marriages, in ordinary seasons, nearly meets the expendi-
ture. There was a considerable sum of money belonging to the
poor of the parish; but unforturnately it fell into the hands of a
person who became bankrupt, and the greater part of it was lost.
There are four blind persons, and four deaf and dumb in the pa-
rish; one of the blind only receiveds aid from the poors' funds. It


