
         834                          FIFESHIRE.

         years since greatly increased in value, both to the proprietor and
         lessee, by the erection of a powerful steam-engine for drawing the
         water, whereby an excellent seam of splint-coal was reached, much
         admired for its clearness and purity. The coal from this work is
         extensively used in the town of Dunfermline and neighbourbood,
         and a large quantity of it is also exported to the ports on the Bal- 
73 
         tic and Mediterranean Seas, France, &c. chiefly for navigation
         purposes, for which it is well adapted. The steam-boats plying
         between Paris and Rouen are almost entirely supplied with it.
         There have been at times 2000 tons sent down by the Elgin rail-
         way in one fortnight.
           The coal-field, including East Baldridge and Venturefair, not
         at present wrought, may embrace 200 acres, of which 30 or 40
         are still to work.
            The average quantity of coals raised in 1836-1841 was 39,535
         tons per annum.
             Townhill and Appin Collieries.-To the east of this colliery,
         and about a mile and a quarter from the town, are the Townhill
         and Appin Collieries, the former belonging to the burgh of Dun-
         fermline, and the latter to Mr Downie of Appin. Previous to
         Candlemas 1838, the burgh had its coal in its own hands, and
         worked only that which was at a moderate depth, and of inferior
         quality, which was all sold in the town and neighborhood at a
         lower rate than other coal. At the period mentioned, however,
         an enterprising and wealthy company took a lease of it for nine-
         teen years, commencing at that date, and by sinking new pits, so
         as to reach the splint coal, a greater amount and superior quality
         of coal are raised, so that hopes are entertained that not only the
         lessees, but the creditors of the burgh, will be much benefited,
         even that the debt of the burgh will, at no distant period, be en-
         tirely paid off. The consumption formerly was chiefly in the town
         and vicinity, but now there is a considerable exportation to France,
         Denmark, and the Baltic. The coal for exportation is now ship-
         ped at Inverkeithing, wbither it is conveyed by a branch railway
         recently formed through the lands of Messrs Downie, Wellwood,
         and Main, and joining the Halbeath one at Guttergates near
         where it crosses the Crossgates road.
            The whole coal-field leased by the company is understood to
         cover above 900 acres, of which about 700 still remain unworked.
         All the lower seams to tbe north of the great dike are untouched.
            The gross output of coal for several years previous to 1838 by

