
                              LINTON.                    147

surrounding if on the north, east, and south, and cultivated al-
most to their summits. Towards the west, it opens into the valley
of the Kale, into which, by a copious stream, it discharges its waters.
The whole of the surface of these fifty acres was formerly covered
with water; it is now partially drained, and it exhibits the appearance
of a verdant morass, interspersed with three or four pools of water,
in which are found excellent trout, closely resembling those of
Lochleven. The surface of the lake or morass, to a considerable
depth, consists of moss, under which there is excellent marl. Of
the moss, there are three different kinds: the first stratum consists
of vegetable roots of a more recent and less complete decomposi-
tion. Its depth is from four to five feet. The second stratum is
from two to three feet deep, of a lighter colour, and more decom-
posed; when long exposed to the air, it becomes nearly as white
as marl; and when dried, it is quite hard. The lowest stratum is
nearly four feet thick, and entirely composed of wood of various
sorts; but principally of birch and hazel. In this stratum were
found large quantities of hazel-nuts, heaped in large masses,
as if collected by the impulse of a current of water. When ex-
posed to the air, they appeared quite fresh; they were broken
even by a slight touch, and were found to be full of water. The
moss in the centre of the loch is of extraordinary depth; sixty-five
feet of iron rod could not fathom it,-as was found from a recent ex-
periment made in search of marl. About eight years ago, it was
attempted to dig the marl found beneath the moss; but, though it
was of the finest quality, the expense of digging it was so great, in
consequence of the annoyance arising from the great abundance
of water, that the enterprise was abandoned. From an accurate
measurement, so far as this was practicable, it appeared that the
marl amounted to one million of cubic yards. Its seam varied in
thickness from two to eighteen feet. It was sometimes blended
with a seam of sand from two to three feet in thickness. The colour
of the marl is varied; the greatest part of it being white as lime;
and a considerable quantity of it black as moss; and there are por-
tions of it which partake of both colours, mingled in various propor-
tions. The black marl was, upon trial, found equally efficacious as
the white. Viewed through a microscope, though fine as flour, it
presented the appearance of decomposed shells. The black was
generally separated from the white marl, and in different layers.
A deer's horns, of an extraordinary size, and supposed to be


