
                             TARVES.                                  675

acceptable than can be procured.  Women engaged by the half
year receive, besides board, from L.1, 10s. to L.2 in winter; and
in summer from L.3 to L.3, 10s.  In turnip time, they earn 8d. a
day, besides victuals, and about L.2 in whole during harvest.  The
crop at that interesting season is all gathered from the swathe and
put into the bandages by the females.  The bread of the farm-ser-
vants and day-labourers is oat-cakes, and their other food consists
of various preparations of dairy produce, oatmeal, cabbages, cole-
worts, turnips, and potatoes.  Beer is allowed them in harvest and
at other times when the work is severe.  Our servants and labourers
are as expert in their respective departments, and will perform as
much work, and to as good purpose, as those of any other district
in Scotland.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Roads and Markets.-The church of Tarves is distant from
Aberdeen seventeen miles, and ten miles from the sea-port of
Newburgh.  To both of these places, where there is always a
ready market for all kinds of farm produce, there is easy access by
good turnpike roads.  English lime, of which a great quantity is
annually used, can be had within six miles of Tarves, at a place
called Waterton, to which it is brought up the Ythan in lighters
from the port of Newburgh.  It costs half-a-crown per boll of four
bushels.  Good roads have been laid off and completed within the
parish itself, and are now kept in excellent repair.  Tarves has,
within its own boundaries, six ancient markets or fairs for horses,
cattle, and grain.  They are generally well attended, though many
of the best cattle bred in the parish are sold at home to the deal-
ers who export them to Smithfield.  These dealers are all native
farmers.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1798, and un-
derwent considerable improvements about seventeen years ago.
It is a commodious and comfortable building, and in perfect re-
pair.  It was originally seated to accommodate 900 persons, but
the improvements alluded to curtailed about thirty sittings, so that
at present it will not contain more than 870 individuals when not
over-crowded.  The number of communicants averages rather
more than 800.
   There is a Seceder meeting house at Craigdam, in this parish,
situated rather more than a mile to the westward of the church.
   The manse was built in 1766, and, though still inhabited, is in
a very crazy condition, and fast hastening to decay.  The items


