
930				PERTHSHIRE.

the funds is 38; and the average sum paid to the whole collec-
tively is L.16, 14s. per annum, or about 8s. 9d. each person. The
average annual amount of the whole contributions for the relief of
the poor, from whatever source, is as follows, viz. collections at
church gate, L.69, 6s. 5d.; voluntary contributions of the heri-
tors, L. 38, 18s. 8d.; proceeds of mortcloth dues and other ses-
sional emoluments L.11; total, L.119, 3s. 1d.
   There is no other regular mode of raising funds for the support
of the poor than those above enumerated. When there is any de-
ficiency in the ordinary collections for the poor, it is supplied by
the heritors, who assess themselves voluntarily in the necessary
sum, according to their respective valued rents.
   Until within the last twenty or thirty years, there existed
amongst the poor a very great disinclination to seek relief from
the poor's fund. Unhappily, however, this noble and independent
spirit is now in a great measure extinct, and the kirk-session are
continually overwhelmed with applications for relief, often from
those who have relatives quite able to afford them such help as
would render such applications unnecessary.
   Prisons.--The only place for the confinement of delinquents is
a sort of cell in the lower story of the town-house, which is di-
vided into two apartments, and well secured with sufficient locks
on the doors, and iron gratings on the windows. The cells are
under the superintendance of the town-officer, whose duty it is to
report to the bailie the apprehension of every offender as soon as
be is secured in the cell, or, at all events, next morning, if he has
been incarcerated late on the previous night, and the bailie then
holds a court upon the prisoner without delay, hears the charge
and evidence, and inflicts a punishment according to the nature of
the offence, varying from a fine of 1s. to L. 2, or from twenty-four
hours to twenty days' imprisonment in the cells on bread and water.
This system has been found to be verv efficient for the prevention of
drunken brawls and other breaches of the peace, which are now
much less frequent than they formerly were. The number of prison-
ers confined in these cells during the year 1841 was 128; and the
offences were petty thefts, drunkenness, assaults, and other de-
linquencies of the same nature.
   Fairs--The fairs held in the town are the following, viz. the
third Wednesday in March; the 26th May (if a Wednesday, if
not the first Wednesday after;) the 23d July; the first Wednes-
day in November the 22d of November (or first Tuesday-there-


