
274                            FIFESHIRE.

streets, and supplying the town with water. The marke towns
of Cupar and Kirkaldy are each nearly ten miles distant from
Leven.
  Means of Communication.--The post-office is at Leven, where
there are two arrivals every day. The turnpike road, which is
well kept, crosses the parish about a quarter of a mile above the
town: and a stage-coach passes from the east of Fife to Edin-
burgh three times a week. There is also a communication with
Edinburgh by a steamboat, twice a-day in summer, and once in
winter. The want of a carriage bridge over the river at the town
of Leven has been much felt, there being none nearer than
Cameron Bridge, about three miles up the river. This much de-
sired improvement, however, is at present in contemplation, and
it is hoped will soon be carried into execution. Near the mouth
of the river, which was formerly crossed by a ferry-boat, there has
been erected a handsome suspension-bridge, for foot-passengers,
by means of which the village of Dubbyside is now, in a manner
connected with the town of Leven. This improvement cost near-
ly L. 500, which was raised in shares of 1Os. 6d. each. A half-
penny is charged for each passenger; and the pontage is at pre-
sent let at L. 85 per annum.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The old church of Scoonie stood in the
centre of the burying ground, about a quarter ofa mile from the
town of Leven ; and what remains of it forms the firmly vault of
the proprietor of Durie. When the present edifice was built,
about sixty years ago, the site was removed to the vicinity of Le-
ven, where the great bulk of the population reside; and is about
four miles distant from the most remote part of the parish. It was
seated for about 700 hearers; but, owing to the rapid increase of the
population, the want of church accommodation began to be serious-
lly felt, when, in 1822, the heritors in the most liberal manner, pro-
ceeded to its enlargement. It now contains 1000 sittings, of which
100 are set apart for the poor. The interior of the building was
completely renewed, and there are few country churches so com-
fortable, either for preacher or hearers.
  The manse was enlarged and repaired in 1820, and is now a
commodious and comfortable dwelling. The glebe arable and
grass together, is about 12 acres, and is let at L. 50 per annum.
The stipend was augmented in 1830, and is 17 chalders of vic-
tual, halfmeal and half barley, the average price of which for the


