
     of Carmichael

L. 28 to L. 30, or a little above L. 3o a-year.  This arises
from the interest of a small capital, part of it a mortifica-
tion by one of the family of Hyndford, the rest accumu-
lated from former savings, from collections made at church,
and private marriages and baptisms.  The heritors do not
regularly contribute any thing, there being no assessment;
but at any time when asked, have done it liberally*.

   Populations.-According to Dr Webster's report, the
number of souls in 1755 was 899.  The population of the
parish at present is 781; of these, above 10 years old, 590 
under 10, 191; males 367; females, 414; families, 180;
of which 11 consist of single persons.  The average number
of births for 11 years past in 22; the marriages near to 5;
the deaths, so near as can be ascertained, 14, but of these
no register is kept+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*This was experienced after the bad harvest of 1782; they that year
purchased meal, which was through the whole season, not to those
upon the public charity only, but to many others whole circumstances
required it, at the reduced price of 1 s. the peck.  There were no good
seed oats in the parish that season; some few, the growth of the parish,
were fown; none of them did well; but it was remarked, that such as
were green at the time the frost happened, and not cut till sometime
after, did better than such as were nearly ripe.  Though almost the whole
of the seed fown the following spring was bought room a distance, yet
the crop did not afford meal sufficient for the support of the inhabitants;
they were supplied with grain, particularty white peas, from Leith.

*The population appears to be nearly the same as the end of last
and beginning of this century.  The average number of births for 11
years from the 1694, it within a small fraction of 22.  Although several
houses were taken down when the lands at Carmichael were enclosed, yet
the number of inhabitants has been kept up, by the planting and building
that were at that time carrying on, and since, by the increase of the coal-
works, in the neighbourhood of which, several new houses have been


