
                              RAYNE.                               433

grass glebe with 18s. Sterling in lieu of the residue of grass.
The stipend was last augmented in 1823, when the heritors sur-
rendered their whole teinds, amounting in Sterling money to
L.167, 11s. 8d.; meal, at 10 imperial stones to the boll, 65
bolls, 3 pecks, 2 1/5 lippies; bear, in Aberdeenshire measure 12
bolls, 3 pecks, 0 4/5 lippies, the victual of both kinds being made
payable, with consent of the present incumbent, at the highest
fiar prices of the county.
   There are no Chapels of Ease, Government churches, mission-
aries, or catechists, nor any Episcopalian, Catholic, Seceding, or
other Dissenting chapels within these bounds; but in the parish
of Fyvie, and about three miles from hence, there is an Episco-
pal chapel, with a numerous and respectable congregation.  Thirty-
four families in Rayne, comprising 100 persons of all ages, attend
there; 14 persons grown up attend various Dissenting meet-
ings at a distance; and all the other Families, amounting to 276,
and comprising about 1400 persons, attend the Established
Church, where the average number of the congregation is 700
persons, and of the cominunicants, 750.  The amount of
annual collections for the poor on the roll has risen to about
L.48, 10s.; and of extraordinary collections for the Aberdeen In-
firmary, the Pauper Lunatic Fund, and the General Assembly's
Schemes, about L.14 yearly.  It is but justice to add, that the
church contributions of the householders form only a small pro-
portion of their alms, as they are daily bestowing meat and provi-
sions on their indigent neighbours, and also on many wandering
mendicants.
   Education.-Besides the parochial school near the church, there
is one in Meiklewarthill unendowed, and another in Old Rain, un-
endowed, and presently taught by a Dissenter.  In the latter two,
the ordinary branches of reading, writing, and arithmetic are
taught, which yield of yearly emolument to each of the teachers
scarcely L.20.  In the parochial school, Latin, Greek, and ma-
thematics are taught, when required, in addition to the ordinary
branches, and for which the teacher has the minimum salary of
L.25, 13s. 4d.; school fees and other dues, L.30; allowance from
Mr Dick's Trustees, L.28 ; total, L.83; 13s. 4d.; also a house
with the legal accommodation, and an enclosed garden of one-
fourth of Scots acre.
   The quarter fees, payable at entry, are very moderate, viz. for
reading and writing, 2s. 6d.; with arithmetic, 3s. 6d.; Latin
   ABERDEEN.                   E e


