
                     COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.                        377

with the feeble cattle and ineffectual implements of husbandry,
were ill fitted, in any portion of time, to perform a reasonable
amount of labour. Lord Kaimes, when writing about the imple-
ments of husbandry then used, says, of the harrows," they were
better fitted to raise laughter than to raise mould," and every
thing else was of a piece." And so feeble were the cattle, that
when making the barley-seed, a serious matter in those days, it
was necessary the labour should be performed early in the morn-
ing, and late in the evenings, when the sun's rays were compara-
tively weak, otherwise the starved animals were unable to crawl.
A married ploughman was paid in the produce of the farm, the
same as at present, but he received 24 bushels less of oats than is
given now: besides, the grain was fully 10 per cent. inferior to the
produce of the present time, and the cow, from the want of sown-
grass, was often scarcely worth the milking, and, still more, po-
tatoes were then hardly known. The consequences were, that the
poor hind was miserably fed, poorly clad, feeble particularly
liable to sickness.  At that period, regularly in the spring, in
every hamlet and village, the ague made its appearance in almost
every family, and there can hardly be a doubt of that sickness hav-
ing often been the natural effects of poverty and filth, more than
any thing else. It is a singular fact that, since the time that po-
tatoes were at the command of the children in the labourer's fa-
mily, the ague has not so much as even been known among them
   With respect to smuggling and poaching offences, when in-
dulged, always pernicious to the happiness of a rural population,
the conduct of the people of the period under consideration, stands
directly opposite to that of the present inhabitants. At that time
poaching was utterly unknown, and simply because nobody then
thought of preserving game, and every man shot or hunted as he
thought proper. Pheasant preserves had not then been introduced
to tenant the jails, and swell the criminal calendar of the kingdom.
On the other hand, smuggling was exceedingly common, and as
yet, wherever it is followed, was greatly pernicious to the best in-
terests of the community. At that time, the entire sea-coast from
Berwickshire to near Prestonpans, was occupied by one connected
line of smugglers, and all intimately acquainted with each other
The articles dealt in were chiefly French wines and brandy, and
even the respectable families of the district were regularly supplied
with what of these commodities they required, by the contraband


