
			ALFORD.  		       517

<TABLE>
	Capital which replaces itself over profits:
1852 black cattle, at L.5, 10s.		L. 10,186  0  0
  32 young horses, at L.15,                     480  0  0
Sheep and pigs,                                 400  0  0
					            ---------------11,066   0   0
	          Whole capital requiring interest,      L.48,052  15   0

   There are some small branches of farming capital, as the furni-
ture and bedding for farm-servants, which cannot be estimated,
being mingled with. property, which, as far as it is used by the far-
mer and his family, is not capital but expenditure.
   It will now be seen how far the L. 5913, 15s. left for paying
money wages and interest of capital, and replacing wasting ca-
pital, is adequate to these purposes.  The money wages of 243
constant labourdrs is L.2916; to which is to be added at least
one-fifth for additional labourers in harvest, making in all L.3499,
4s.; leaving only L.2414, 11s. for replacing capital and affording
interest,-sum totally inadequate for these purposes.
   In short, the fact cannot be denied, that, since the year 1820,
agriculture has not been in a prosperous condition.  The cultiva-
tors of this parish have, however, hitherto happily escaped that
ruin, which has long since overtaken those of so many other parts
of the kingdom ; and it is a question of great interest, "To what
causes do they owe the exemption?"
   The first and most obvious is, that the tenantry here have
not been speculators.  Their capital is their own, the well-earn-
ed fruit of their industry and economy; and when the money-
price of their produce fell, they were not caught with a money
debt, to the liquidation of which that produce would have then
proved unequal.
   The second cause is, their habitual temperance, which enabled
them instantly, on the fall of prices, to retrench any superfluity to
which more prosperous times had given encouragement.
   The third, that the farmers and their families are, to a very
great extent, their own labourers, and so can subsist by the wages
of their labour, when their capital fails to yield them a proper re-
turn.
   The last, that the agricultural resources of the parish were not
as yet all rendered fully available at the period when the prices
fell.  The new fields that had just then only been added to the
cultivation, or were in the course of , being cultivated, have, since
enlarged their produce in quantity, to make up in part for the low
and they have thus been enabled to strtuggle on, though


