
58                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

is nearly equal to the number of families in the parish, and the
church is generally full. The average number of commtinicants is
about 120. There is one society in the parish-a Bible, Jewish,
and Missionary Society. The average yearly collections for reli-
gious purposes are about L.25, and for charitable L.20.
   Education.-The number of schools in the parish is 3, of which
one is parochial, one endowed by the General Assembly's Educa-
tion Committee, and one supported by fees. The parochial
schoolmaster has the maximum salary of L.34. He is obliged
from age to have an assistant, who receives the fees, averaging
L.12, and occasional donations from the heritors. The general
expense of edubation is, for reading, 1s. 6d. or 2s.; writing and
arithmetic, 6d. each additional per quarter, Latin, 5s. Poor
children are taught gratis at the parochial and General Assem-
bly's school. There are no children upwards of six years of age
who are not in course of learning reading, writing and arith-
metic. Some aged persons there are, who cannot read, but the
number of these is exceedingly small. The people universally
are much alive to the benefits of education, and two additional
schools are required which they are unable regularly to maintain.
   A parochial library has been established this year, which al-
ready possesses upwards of 300 volumes; there are also two Sab-
bath schools very efficiently taught, and numerously attended.
   Friendly Society.-Under this head there is nothing to parti-
cularize excepting a Friendly Society instituted in 1819, for the
purpose of aiding its members when sick, and their widows after
their decease. It is sufficiently desirable in this point of view,
but in other respects its advantages are not very obvious.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average of persons receiving
parochial aid is 35, and the average sum given to each 15s. per
annum. The average sum at the disposal of the kirk-session for
all parochial purposes, is about L.34, of which L.20 arise from
church collections, the remainder being the interest of legacies,
and sums collected man years ago by fines, and econom in the
distribution of the funds. There is no other regular mode of pro-
curing funds for the poor. There are none unemployed who are
able and willing to work, and there are none so destitute as not to
have a cottage, plenty of fuel and a spot of ground for cabbages
and potatoes.
   Fairs.-The following are held in the parish, for the sale of
horses, cattle, sheep, and other stock, for hiring servants, and


