
                       ARDNAMURCHAN.                          139

and retained possession for a considerable time, though his garri-
son in the castle were assailed by one of Argyle'a most intrepid
and able partizans.  Sir Donald died  * without issue, the lands
consequently reverted to the superior, and came soon afterwards
into the possession, it is believed by purchase, of Campbell of
Lochnell.  While the estate was in possession of this family, the
inhabitants suffered no violence from without, but were in a state
of great internal disorganization, the arm of legal authority being
weak and ineffectual.  In evidence of this, and of the manners of
the people nearly two centuries ago, two incidents may be worth
recording.
   The clans located in Ardnamurchan and Sunart felt the tie
which bound them to the heads of their tribes, little weakened by
residing on the lands of another proprietor.  A widow of the clan
Cameron having been dispossessed of a farm in Ardnarmurchan
by a tenant belonging to another sept or family of the same clan,
her husband's brother, a bold and fiery character, applied to his
chief, Lochiel, for redress; but failing in this, resolved to effect
his purpose by open force.  With his eldest son, be proceeded
at ohce to the residence of the new tenant, who, well knowing
their object, advanced to meet them with his son, and first fired
upon the assailants.  The elder assailant brought his enemy to
the ground at the first fire mortally wounded, while the sons en-
gaged each other with their swords; but, as he hastily approach-
ed, his foot slipped, and he fell forward upon his prostrated oppo-
nent, who received him upon the point of his sword, and, as they
both lay in their blood, said, with a mixture of feelings it is diffi-
cult to analyze, " Here are two gallant falcons on one spit"
The son of the assailant alone survived, having slain his antago-
nist, and the affair ended by the re-instalment of the widow in her
farm, which remained in lineal possession of her descendants until
about six or seven years ago.  At this time, it is singular that a
direct descendant of the other party in the tragedy above-men-
tioned, managed to obtain possession, and that the occupancy of
the farm, though decided as such cases now a-days usually are,
was contested by the parties, chiefly from motives connected with
the feud of their ancestors, affording a solitary instance, in so
peaceful a district, of the cherished remembrance of such ancient
quarrels, embittering the intercourse of private life.

<FOOTNOTE>There is a portrait of Sir Donald at Airds, the mansion of the inheritor of his
title and estates, Sir John Campbell of Ardnamurchan.


