
764                         FIFESHIRE.

proponit to the towne to be ane secund minister to thame; and
thairfore demandid of thame giff they wald be contentit to be taxit
of thair awn gudwill for payment of the said Mr Ihone his stipend
for the townis part, or uther wayis giff they wald lose the benefit
of the said Mr Ihone his doctreine in default of moyen for inter-
tening of him to teach and instruct thame in the word of God.
Qurunto they maist willinglie agreit, approving and allowing the
agrement wt the said Mr Ihone to be ane gud and ane godlie wark,
and that they willinglie agreit to be stentit to that effect."  After
1650, the date of the parish of Abbotshall being disjoined from
Kirkcaldy, the town paid the whole of the second minister's sti-
pend.  No hesitation in appointing, and no doubts of the town's
liability to support the second minister, seem to have arisen till
about 1740.  The difficulty of continuing to maintain this living
was occasioned by a considerable portion of an augmentation, ob-
tained by the first minister in 1737, having fallen on the town for
the lands they had feued, in the feuing of which the town reserved
for itself all public burdens, as if for the purpose of publishing an-
nually, that the town had once been possessed of considerable pro-
perty in land.  The town's desire to reduce the ecclesiastical
establishment by discontinuing the second minister, in order to
relieve the funds from the burden of his stipend, was first mani-
fested in 1741.  A vacancy was prolonged at this time for up-
wards of two years.  On various grounds, the town craved delay
from the presbytery, always professing that there was " no inten-
tion to sink the said charge."  The council applied to the Lord
Advocate of the day for an opinion as to their liability to appoint
and maintain a second minister.  After reasoning on the memo-
rial, his Lordship concludes thus: " After what has been been
said I must be of opinion, that the presbytery has a power, after
the lapse of the patron's time, to settle a minister, and that he
will be entitled to 1000 merks stipend, that has uniformly been
paid to the second minister for so long a time."  On receiving
this opinions the town-council appointed a minister.  When the next
vacancy occurred in 1759, the town offered to pay the first minister
a certain portion of the second minister's stipend if he would un-
dertake to discharge the whole duties.  This offer was accepted
by the minister, and connived at by the presbytery, and thus the
council accomplished, by an unworthy compromise, what they had
previously found they could not accomplish by law.  This agree-

<FOOTNOTE>Town and Presbyter records.
                         4


