
                         AYTON.                             133

any important use. There are immense quantities of coarse gravel,
boulders and rolled blocks under the soil, in the neighbourhood
of the Eye, evidently rounded during ages of exposure to the ac-
tion of water, and deposited by the strength of the same element.
The soil in general is good, and not much, if at all, inferior to any
in the county; light and gravelly in the northern, and more loamy
in the southern parts of the parish. It does not appear to have
been shifted by any process of nature, except by the watery depo-
sits above-mentioned.
   Zoology.-All sorts of white fish, equal to any on the eastern
coast, which are the best in the kingdom, are caught by the Burn-
mouth fishermen in great abundance; and occasionally red fish.
Cod, ling, and herrings are here cured for distant markets. Lob-
sters also are occasionally sent hence to London; and lately an
attempt has been made to convert even periwinkles, of which
there are immense quantities among the rocks, into an article of
trade. They are in some request in London with the fish-
mongers, for making fish sauce.
   Botany.-The only rare plants discovered in this parish are, 1st,
the Veronica filiformis, (discovered by Dr Johnston, author of the
Berwick Flora,) an engraving of which forms the frontispiece of his
work. He found it about four years since, upon the farm of
Whiterig, the second known station for it in Britain. 2d, the Scilla
verna, discovered by the Rev. A. Baird of Cockburnspath. It
was growing upon the sea banks at Gunsgreen. Before the dis-
covery of this habitat, it was believed to be a native exclusively of
the western shores of the island. 3d, the Astragalus glycyphyllos,
discovered for the first time in Berwickshire, by Mr A. Carr, sur-
geon, Ayton, in the dean above Burnmouth. This dean is said
to be one of the most interesting botanical resorts in the neigh-
bourhood. The Hyoscyamus niger, or henbane, grows wild on
the sea coast, as discovered on the lands of Fairneyside, by Mr
E. Colville, surgeon, Ayton.
   All sorts of hard and soft wood grow well in this parish. Perhaps
the Scotch and spruce firs thrive best. There are some very fine
old hard-wood trees, of various kinds, surrounding Ayton House.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-There is no direct history , ancient or modern, of
this parish, but from old charters of Coldingham priory and other
sources, a few gleanings have been collected. From these it ap-
pears that Ayton was formerly a dependency on the monastery of
Coldingham. When a colony of Benedictine monks settled at


