
2                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the valley, which are sheltered by the banks of the river, it is mild
and temperate; whilst in the higher and more exposed parts it is
colder. The mean temperature is 47 of Fahrenheit. The mean
pressure of the atmosphere is 29.3 inches. The greatest extremes
during the last twenty years were 1821, December 25, 27.85
inches, and 1825, January 9, 30.55 inches. The town of Jed-
burgh is remarkably healthy, being subject to fewer epidemical
diseases than either of the neighbouring towns of Kelso and Hawick.
Cholera, which, in the year 1832, visited both these places, never
entered this parish, although it twice approached its very bounda-
ries. As might be expected from the salubrity of the climate, there
are numerous instances of longevity. At present, five or six per-
sons are above ninety, and one has completed his hundredth year.
At a Reform dinner which took place in 1832, the united ages of
three women, including the chairwoman, amounted to 264. She
occupied a chair which was made in the year 1674, and on which
the Pretender had sat when he passed through Jedburgh in 1745,
and her gown had seen 100 summers.
   Hydrography.- This parish possesses abundance of excellent pe-
rennial springs, with a mean temperature of 47 Fahrenheit. At
Tudhope, about half a mile from Jedburgh, there is a spring strongly
impregnated with sulphur and iron, which has long been resorted
to for the cure of scorbutic disorders. There are several chalybeate
springs, in various parts of the parish, and at Gilliestongues there
is a petrifying spring.
   The Jed, which flows through nearly the whole length of the
parish, rises on the north side of the Carlin Tooth, one of the
Cheviot mountains, in the parish of Southdean, at the distance of
about fourteen miles from Jedburgh, and joins the Tiviot about two
and a half miles below the town. It receives many tributary
gtreamlets; and rushing over a rocky channel, betwixt woody
banks and lofty scars, fringed with shrubs, and crowned with the
oak, the beech, and the weeping birch, presents in its course a suc-
cession of highly picturesque and romantic scenes. Its general di-
rection is from south to north. Its waters are pure and salubrious.
Its breadth is about twenty yards; and, having a fall of thirty feet
per mile its velocity is considerable. The eastern part of the pa-
rish is watered by the Oxnam, and through the north of it flows
the Tiviot, beautifully through its wide and fertile vale.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The nature and position of the rocks
Word abundant materials for the speculations of the geologist. At
                              3

