
			    PARISH OF BANFF.

	        PRESBYTERY OF FORDYCE, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

    	        THE REV. FRANCIS WILLIAM GRANT, MINISTER.*



	    	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	  Name.-In some ancient writings, the name of the town is given
	in each of the following ways,-Bainiffe, Boineffe, Bainffie, Banife,
	thus, most probably, drawing its origin from the word Boyn, the
	name of a district in which Banff is situated.  Boyn (found in older
	writings under all the different orthographies of Boynd, Boyne,
	Boynde, Boin, Bouyn, Buyne, Buyn, Boyen,) is apparently the
	Gaelic word Buinne, a stream; and the district appears to have
	received its name from a stream passing through it, now called
	Burn of Boyne.  On the bank of this stream, near its entrance in-
	to the sea, is the ancient castle of Boyne; and the neighbouring
	parish of Boyndie was formerly called Inverboynde or Inverboin-
	dy, i. e. mouth of Boyn.  Boyndie is pronounced Beendie or Bee-
	nie,-resembling, in this respect, the Gaelic word, more than its
	present orthography would seem to indicate.  The sound of f oc-
	curring in the word Banff, has probably originated from nothing
	more than a peculiarity of pronunciation,-as Murray is found to
	have been, at some former periods, spelled Murreff;  Strathisla,
	Strathileff; Bailiary, Bailiareff.
	  Extent, Boundaries.- The greatest length of the parish is about
	6 1/2 miles, its greateat breadth, which is nearly in the middle, about
	2 miles.  Its superficial extent is probably below 9 square miles-
	As indicated by the measures now given, it is in shape long and
	narrow, but with a bend, the inner side  of which is towards the
	east: the inland extremity tapering to a point exactly like a leaf.
	It lies longitudinally from N. E. to S. W.
	  The parish us bounded on the north by the sea of the Moray
	Frith.  The river Doveran, for a distance of about a mile and a
	half from its entrance into the sea, forms the eastern boundary.
	On the opposite side of the river, up to a rivulet falling into it about

        <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up, in the indisposition of the Minister, by Alexander Smith, M.A, au-
	thor of the "Philosophy of Morals."
	 BANFF    				 A


