
                            YESTER.                           167

They are allocated by the sheriff to the various heritors accord-
ing to their valued rents, by whom they, are allotted to their tenants
and dependents; whilst the session of course, possess the right of
allotting the communion table seats.
   The present manse was built in 1824. It is commodious and
well finished; and is one of the best in the country. The glebe
contains about 10 acres; and is let for L.25 a year. The stipend
amounts on an average to about L.200, besides the allowance
for communion elements.
   There are no Dissenting or Seceding chapels in the parish.
The great body of the people have long bedn firmly attached to
the Established Church; and their love has not waxed cold. There
are about six Seceders and two or three Episcopalians in the pa-
rish; but many of the former, being advanced in years, and there-
fore unable to travel to Haddington, generally attend the parish
church. The younger branches of their families, having been
trained under the faithful ministrations of former ministers, have
in most cases joined the church. The Episcopalians attend the
Established Church regularly. The average attendance is nearly
600, which is more than half of the population; but this is explain-
ed by the fact, that several families in neighbouring parishes are
nearer, by several miles, the church of Yester than their own parish
churches. The number of communicants at the summer sacra-
ment is on an average about 430; at the winter sacrament, 400.
The number of male heads of families in communion with the
church is 135.
   An Auxiliary Bible Society existed and flourished in the parish
for many years. It consisted exclusively, of members of the church,
although Dissenters were not prohibited from giving their contri-
butions. The Society sent about L.25 annually to the East Lo-
thian Bible Society; but this was discontinued, and the money di-
rected to other religious purposes, four years ago;-about the time
when our Seceding brethren made the discovery that the Church
of Scotland is the "Mother of abominations," and raised the war-
cry of extermination against the "paid servants of the devil."!!
This questionable discovery has certainly had no good influence
on the operations of religious societies. A collection, amount-
ing to L.62, was made last spring, for the church extension find.
On the first Sabbath of the year, a collection is made to supply
the poor with coals. On an average it amounts to L.7; and the


