
154                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

of seed is from six to six and a half bushels per imperial acre;
and the returns may be stated, taking an average of seasons, on
a good farm, from five to six and a half; on a bad one, three
to four; and on those of a mixed or indifferent quality, at the va-
rious intermediate degrees.  From an after statement it will ap-
pear that the average return is rather above than below four and
a half.  Since the turnip husbandry has been fully established,
and bone-dust could be purchased at a moderate price, from 2s.
2d. to 2s. 6d. a bushel, to supply the deficiency of home manure,
-the growth of peas has been almost discontinued.
   It is long since farmers used to fatten a part of their winter stock
of cattle for the home consumption.  That demand, however, was
very limited.  But of late, the practice of conveying cattle alive in
good condition by steam or sailing vessels to London, where a
much better price is commonly obtained, has induced many to keep
the stots or full-grown animals, which they used to dispose of in
some of the summer markets, to English or south country dealers;
and, when they are fully stall-fed, either to send them directly from
themselves, to be sold for their behoof by a commission-agent in
the southern metropolis, or to pass them into the bands of a
dealer at home, who traffics in that commodity.  It is not unusual
for country graziers or dealers to continue their trade through the
winter, and to bargain with farmers for what they can spare of
their turnips at so much, from L.5 to L.10 per acre, to be con-
sumed upon the farm, receiving therewith house accommodation,
and a competent quantity of straw for fodder and bedding.  No-
thing, for many years, back has contributed more to improve the
condition of the farming interest in this part of the world than the
discovery and general use of bone manure for the raising of tur-
nips, and the easy transport of cattle fattened by them to a distant
market.  With lime, reckoned favourable, particularly on its first ap-
plication to the growth of green crops, the bulk of the land had been
saturated, and in many cases supersaturated, so as by an excess
of cropping, which almost invariably followed, to have become in
many cases a caput mortuum. Feeding, more than forcing manures,
were then wanted; and this desideratum the bones of animals have
helped greatly to supply.  Had it not been for the favourable cir-
cumstances alluded to, in connection with a moderate price for
oats, the staple produce here, during the last two or three years,
the very low rate of-farm produce for a long period before, with
little exception, had it continued much longer in a depressed con-


