
172                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The present manse was built in 1804.  The glebe measures
nearly 6 acres, about two of which were reclaimed by the pre-
sent incumbent from barren ground; and the greater part of the
grebe (both old and new) is land of inferior value.
   The stipend consists of sixteen chalders of victual, the one-half
meal, the other half barley, payable by the fiar prices of the county,
together with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   Schools.-There are two schools in the parish, besides two Sabbath
schools, one of them conducted by the minister, viz. the parochial,
which is well situated for the southern (the more popoulous) district
of the parish; and a school, built and endowed by the proprietor
of Disblair, for the accommodation of the northern district.  The
parochial teacher enjoys a school-house, with two small rooms for
his own accommodation, a salary of L.28 Sterling, and a quarter
of an acre of garden ground.  Average number of scholars from
60 to 70, and school-fees may amount to L.20 per annum.  The
teacher of the other school receives as salary, the interest of L.200,
mortified for that purpose by the Rev. Dr Morison, proprietor of
DisbIair, together with a school-house, dwelling-house, and gar-
den, for a nominal rent of 5s, per annum.  Number of scholars
from 40 to 50.  School-fees may, perhaps, amount to L.15 or
L.16 per annum.  The teacher officiates as precentor, and re-
ceives L.3 per annum.
   The branches usually taught in the parochial school are, read-
ing, writing, arithmetic, Latin, (now seldom required,) English
grammar, geography, mensuration, mathematics, and sometimes
book-keeping.  Most of the above branches are also taught at the
school at Disblair.  School-fees vary from 2s.6d. to 5s. per quar-
ter, according to the branches taught, but they are often not re-
gularly paid. The Dick bequest to the parochial schoolmasters
in Aberdeen, Banff, and Murrayshires, now makes their situation
comfortable.
   There are exceedingly few persons (if any) in this parish who
cannot read; and it is believed that (with a few exceptions among
the aged) all of them have more or less knowledge of writing.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There is not a beggar belonging
to the parish.  Only one person of that description has resided in
the parish in the course of the last forty years; and, as that person
begged were from avarice than necessity, the kirk-session gave
him the choice of desisting from public begging, or allowing his
name to be expunged from the pauper roll.  By the advice of his


