
			MOULIN. 			659

L.35,750.  But the yearly amount of excise duty charged in re-
rpect of spirits and malt may be estimated at about L. 20,000.
Deducting the price of the raw material at the rate of L, 1 per
boll barley, there remains in the hand of the manufacturer a small
sum, indeed, to indemnify him for his time, servants' wages, tear
and wear fo his untensils, and the losses to which he is necessarily
exposed.
    One of the great advantages which the farmer derives from his
connexion with these distilleries arises, as already stated, form the
means which they afford for enriching his farm.  And when it is
considered that many of the partners are persons who were previ-
ously engaged in the "duty free trade," centainly the most demo-
ralizing scourge that ever visited the Highlands, it may be some
consolation to our "temperance friends" to know, that the tempe-
rate, industrious, and honest legal trader has been engrafted on
the once intemperate, improvident, and lawless smuggler!
     Public Associations.-- The Atholl and Weem Agricultural Club
meet once every year, either at Weem or Pitlochry.  The liberal
encouragement given in the way of premiums to the successful
competitors has been the means of directing the attention of the
tenantry to the improvement of their farms and stock of cattle.
The beneficial influence which this Association has had on the
farmer and on his farm has been very considerable.  A spirit of
laudable emulation is excited, the farmer's own knowledge is en-
creased, his farm is in consequence greatly improved, and his at-
tention also in thereby directed to the proper breeds of cattle.
     Till within a few years, good ploughing was little thought of.
The ploughing matches that have taken place of late, under the
auspices of some of the country gentlement, have been of great benefit
in teaching the young men, and impressing the farmers in this re-
spect with a just estimate of inferior and superior workmanship.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Town, &c.--Dundeld is the nearest market-town, dis-
tant nearly thirteen miles.  The villages are Moulin and Pitlochry.
The number of families in the former is 48, and the population
185.  The number of families in the latter is 67, and the popula-
tion 321.  pitlochry is remarkably thriving village.  it locality
is favourable, as situated on the great north road,  It supplies not
only the immediate district with all kings of mercantile goods, but
it me`ns of communications enable it ot extend its trade in va-
rious directions, and to great distances.  Till within a few years


