
938			       PERTHSHIRE.

with which the river side is studded. The only memorial of its
existence preserved, is the name given by the proprietor to his re-
sidence, Castle Bank.
   At Balthayock, the seat of a branch of the ancient family of
Blair, are the remains of a castle, bearing marks of great antiquity,
and supposed to have belonged to the Knights Templar. It con-
sists of an oblong tower of about 50 feet in height, and the sides
52 and 37 feet. The walls are still entire, and of prodigious
thickness. Its position is very commanding, cresting the top of
a deep ravine, which the frowning mass, as seen from the Carse
of Gowrie, appears to overhang. The present mansion-house of
Balthayock, which stands within a few feet of the tower, had
been built at different periods, and is also of considerable antiquity.
The more modern part bears the date 1578, while that to which
it is attached is supposed to be of a date about two centuries ear-
lier. There is nothing striking in the character of the edifice
beyond, the substantialness which marks buildings of that period.
   Modern Buildinqs.--The principal modern buildings (besides
the church and Murray's Asylum, afterwards to be noticed,( are
the mansion-house of Inchyra--a very handsome edifice of po-
lished ashlar work, and in the Grecian style; and Bellwood, oc-
cupying a very striking position on the face of the hill of Kinnoull
fronting Perth.  The other mansion-houses in the parish are Mur-
rayshall, and Barnhill, or Woodend.
   Bridge of Perth.--So far back as 1329, a bridge connecting
Kinuoull with Perth appears to have been constructed.  In 1573,
this erection was partly swept away. Again, in 1582, "the down-
falling of five bowis" (arches) is recorded. In 1589 the "bra
trein pillars of the brig" appear to have given way; and from
that period being "ready to fall without help," it continued under
repair, and a considerable portion of it was built anew, until, in
1617, the work was supposed to be at last substantially completed.
But only four years thereafter (1621) "it was hailly, dung down,
excepting only one bow thereof standing."
   Strange to say, all after attempts to renew the fabric seem to
have failed for a century and a-half, during which long period the
only communication across this--one of the most frequented passes
in Scotland--continued to be carried on by means of ferry-boats.
At length, in 1766, the foundation stone of the present handsome
structure, as planned by Smeaton, was laid by Thomas, eighth
Earl of Kinnoull, and the work completed on the 13th of Novem-


