
                      CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                        581

course to the hill of Benochie for their peats, by a very sleep and
dangerous road, which, in a rainy season, is almost impassable.
The moss is about 200 yards from the top of the hill, (which is
about 1440 feet above the level of the sea); and as it is about four
miles distant from the centre of the parish, two cart-loads can only
be brought home by one horse during the day. The cost of a cart-
load to the consumer is reckoned about 4s.  English coals are also
very expensive.  They are to be procured at the canal basin of Port-
Elphinstone, near Inverury, which is about five or six miles dis-
tant from the church, and when brought here, including all ex
peuses, cost from L.1, 6s. to L.1, 8s. per ton.  English coals can
be bought cheaper at Aberdeen; but when it is considered that it
is twenty miles distant, a greater expense for cartage is thus in-
curred ; so that the ton of coals from Aberdeen, and from the
canal basin at Inverury, may be reckoned, when laid down at
Chapel of Garioch, about the same price.

                       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the last Statistical Account was published, great im-
provements have taken place in the parish.  The system of hus-
bandry is greatly changed for the better, and a great proportion
of the land that was then waste, has been either planted or im-
proved. Instead of (as there stated) sown grass and turnips
being little cultivated, excepting upon the farms in the possession of
the proprietors, every farmer, and even cottager, has at present
his rotation of these crops, and where nothing but heath formerly
grew, are now to be seen well cultivated and enclosed fields.  Thriv-
ing plantations are rising up in every direction, beautifying and im-
proving,the fac eof the country.  All the resident proprietors have had
large additions built to their mansion-houses.  The church, school-
masters' house have also been rebuilt.  most of the te-
nants' houses have also been rebuilt, and many of them covered with
slate roofs.  Their manner of living is more comfortable, and a
change for the better has taken place in their dress.  The po-
pulation is nearly doubled.  The number of poor upon the roll was at
that period, 30, with an income of L. 35.  The average number
at preeent is 35, with an income for their support of L.93, 4s.
1 1/4d. ; so that it is pleasing to observe, that they have not increas-
ed in the same proportion as the population ; whilst their means
of subsistence are nearly tripled.  A new turnpike road has been
made through the parish, along which the mail and three other
coaches daily pass to and from Aberdeen.  In former times,


