
496                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

that the entries were not by any means regularly made, and this
circumstance is probably as much owing to a strong prejudice
which obtained against it in the minds of the people, as from any
remissness or neglect on the part of the clerk.
   Antiquities.-There are many Druidical remains in the parish,
and also some vitrified forts (supposed by most people to be where
beacon fires used to be lighted in ancient times): but I am not
aware that any thing of a peculiarly interesting nature has ever
been discovered in or about them. There are three or four of
the " Druidical temples" within a mile of the parish church.
   Mansion-house.-Beaufort Castle, the residence of the Right
Honourable Lord Lovat, is a large and commodious but very plain-
looking building, having been originally intended only as a resi-
dence for the Government factor, during the time that the Lovat
estate lay under forfeiture; and, although the present chief of
the clan Fraser, some time ago, bad it in contemplation to erect
a more maunificent habitation, the project appears to have been
abandoned, at least for the present. It stands on the site of
the old fortress of Beaufort or Downie; and mention is made of
it in Scottish story, so early as the era of Alexander I., when it
sustained a regular siege by the royal troops, and the trenches then
made are still visible. It was also seized by Oliver Cromwell, and
the citadel blown up; and immediately after the battle at Cullo-
den, it was burnt and razed to the ground by the Duke of Cum-
berland's army, and the flames of the conflagration were witnessed
by Simon, Lord Lovat, from a high mountain near Loch Muilie,
in Glenstrathfarrar, in which is a small island, whither he and a
few faithful adherents had retreated. The accommodations of the
fortress, at this time, appear to have been very limited indeed; for
Lord Lovat, as related by his own chronicler, " received company
and dined with them in the same room in which he slept. His
lady's sole apartment was her bedchamber, and the only provision
for lodging the domestics and the numerous herd of retainers was
a quantity of straw on the four lower rooms of the tower; some-
times above 400 persons were kennelled here." It is said, that the
present is the twelfth edifice which has been erected on the same
site, and, indeed, a more eligible and delightful situation could not
be pitched upon for the chieftain's residence. It commands an
extensive view of the whole of the Aird or Fraser country, and the
Beauly Frith. In front of the mansion, there are extensive parks,
studded witb large trees of various kinds, and a very considerable


