
                     ON THE COUNTY OF DUMFRIES.                    577

sion is now absolutely necessary, in order to take in the vast masses
of ignorant poor; and what mean of providing for this, more just
or proper, is it posrible to conceive, than the general application
of all the teinds, being the declared patrimony of the church?
	21. The Police of Dumfries-shire has been very weak since the
reduction of all the armed force of the county. In the year 1912,
this force amounted to two battalions of local militia of 719 men
in each; a separate battalion of 400 men; and three troops of yeo-
manry cavalry, consisting of 120 men; a force in all, of 1958 men.
The reduction of the yeomanry force was injudicious, and also that
of the militia staff; because the known and total want of an arm-
ed force actually encourages crime; and then it also prevents ef-
fective means of apprehension and punishment. It is, indeed, most
honourable to the character of the people of this county, that, in such
circumstances, atrocious crimes are so seldom committed; and no
one doubts the blessed influence of religious principle and education,
both founded in the word of God, in preventing gross crimes; but-
still there ought to be a company of yeomanry in each of the dis-
tricts, and this force would cost little to Government, and would
give support to the magistracy in case of need. There ought also
to be a new and more efficient constabulary force, and a legal pri-
son in each of the larger towns of the county, with a reasonable
and less reluctant compensation for expenses in maintaining the
peace of thd community out of proper funds.
	22. The Domestic Animals, or live-stocks, have been greatly im-
proved, consisting chiefly of Galloway cattle and of Cheviot sheep.
Ayrshire cows for the dairy, and short-horned cattle for early feed-
ing, with half-bred sheep, a cross of the Leicester, have been getting
into favour, in suitable places; and the quantity of milk, early feed-
ing, and length and weight of wool, are now important considera-
tions with farmers. The breeds of horses, pigs, and poultry are
too little attended to by many farmers.
         23. The Seafishings of the Solway Frith are of little use to this
county, white fish not being duly sought for; and the salmon fish-
ings of the rivers having been ruined by stake-nets at their mouths,
which, though allowed by some old Scottish acts, ought to have been
repealed at the Union of the Kingdoms, or to be considered as no
longer in force under the altered modes of using them.
	24. A want of employment, especially for aged females, and chiefly
in winter, has been much complained of; but why not attempt some
parts of the manufactures of the blind in Glasgow and Edinburgh
	DUMFRIES.                        P P


