                           KIRRIEMUIR.                         175

tradition, having taken a hammer, and assisted in the demolition of
the doorways and hewing of the stone-work till he was overcome
with fatigue.
The Earl of Airly, now referred to, was eminent as a soldier, and
distinguished himself in Montrose's campaigns, in particular at the
battle of Kilsyth. Nimmo, in his History of Stirlingshire, informs us,
that a body of 1000 Highlanders in Montrose's army, without orders,
marched up the hill to attack the enemy. That consummate general
sent a strong detachment, under the command of the Earl of Airly,
to their assistance, whose arrival not only preserved this resolute
corps from being overpowered by a superior force, with which they
were going to engage, but turned the balance against their anta-
gonists, who were obliged to retreat. This was the most complete
victory which Montrose ever gained. The loss on his side was
small, - only seven or eight persons having been slain, three of
whom were named Ogilvy, being relations of the noble family of
Airly.
Family of Ogilvy of Inverquharity. - This family, according to
Douglas, traces its origin to the third son of the deceased Walter
Ogilvy of Auchterhouse, by name Sir John, who received from his
brother the lands and barony of Inverquharity in 1420. This fa-
mily was ever held in the highest estimation, - its members hold-
ing the highest civil and military appointments. It is not always
easy, however, to distinguish their exploits from those of the
house of Airly, to which they were allied. Alexander, second
son of Sir John, was a youth of extraordinary parts, according to
Guthrie in his Memoirs of Montrose, - valiant above his age, and
of a fervent and daring spirit. He joined that distinguished war-
rior; was taken prisoner in the battle of Philiphaugh; and, for his
firm adherence to the Royal cause, was executed at Glasgow in the
flower of his age, in 1646.
The son, "It was a' for our rightful King," is said to have
been the production of Captain Ogilvy, son of Sir David Ogilvy of
Inverquharity. He was along with King James at the battle of the
Boyne, and afterwards fell in an engagement on the Rhine. It is
said that he was one of the hundred gentlemen who volunteered to
attend their royal master in his exile. The present representative
of this ancient family is Sir John Ogilvy, an officer in the Guards.
Family of Kinloch. - This family is very ancient, and may be
traced to the twelfth, if not the ninth century. There is a charter
without date to Sir John de Kinloch, which was confirmed by King

