

                          PORT OF MENTEITH.                       1105

       bler accommodation of their predecessors, if not, for some thme,
       their co-occupants, the Culdees.
         Besides the parochial church of Lany (over the door of the mu-
       tilated remains of which may still be read, in Arabic numerals,
       " A. D. 1214,") are the parochial churches of Kilmadock, Port,
       and Lintreathan, which, in the Parliamentary Act 1606, already
       referred to, are, along with Lany, stated to have been granted by
       the sovereign to John, Earl of Mar, and his heirs and assignees
       hereditarily, as having "pertenet of auld" to the priory of Inch-
       m`home.  Four chapels were attached to it.  1. That of Inchy,
       about a furlong north of the exit of the stream of Guidie, on a
       gentle eminence close to the lake of Incomahome, and now form-
       ed into a garden.  Here, according to local tradition, the Earl of
       Monteith who fell by the hand of the tutor of Appin was
       with a wedding party, when he received the news of that petty
       depredation which led to the scuffle in which he lost his life.
       2. The chapel of Arnchluy, about a mile west of the lake, and
       whose name is by Gaelic scholars interpreted "Portion of the
       cell or burying-ground."  3. Chapellaroch, in the parish of Dry-
       men, barony of Drummond, and in that part of the modern Stir-
       lingshire which was anciently part of the earldom or county of
       Lennox.  4. Balquhapple, or "Town of the Chapel," in that part
       of the quondam parish of Lany now annexed to Kincardine.  Of the
       priory of Inchmahome, the buildings are still so entire, that the uses
       to which each of them respectively was applied may be guessed at.
       The nave and the choir measure together fifty paces by twelve.  The
       former had in the north wall four arches, two of which fell about
       fifty years ago.  One of the entire arches, being the western, is
       covdred by a tower or belfry; a quadrangle corresponding to which
       on the south side, is erased, as are the cloisters on the same side,
       and of which the corbels are visible.  The rest of the arches had
       an aisle outside, of which the ragling is discernible on the tower.
       The western entrance is entire; and some of the hewn stones of a
       window above are visible.  The oriel window of the choir is filled
       up with rubble-work of modern date.  The side walls of this part
       of the building are almost entire.
         South of the church, at the distance of a few yards, are the
       ruins of an edifice, consisting, on the ground floor, of the refectory,
       nineteen paces by eleven; and to which was an entrance from the
       dormitory on the north, another from the kitchen on the south-
       east angle, and a thhrd about the centre of the east wall, and de-
         PERTH.                                   4 A


