
140			STIRLINGSHIRE.


appearance of a considerably extended but narrow strath, which
might be named Strath Kelvin; insomuch that (as Dr Rennie
described in the last Statistical Account), "at one point it seems
to be part of a great ditch intersecting the kingdom, terminating
at the Frith of Forth on the east, and at the Clyde on the west,
being nearly equidistant from either." About two miles from the
east end of the parish, is Rugh-hill, the highest part of the strath
whence the Kelvin runs west, and the Auchincloch Burn and
Bonny Water run east. The Dullatur Bog is almost on a level
with the canal, which cuts it into almost equal parts, about 160
feet above the level of the Forth at Grangemouth.  The names
of places, in the direction westward, clearly indicate their former
state of partial immersion ; e. g. Bog-side, Bog-house, Gaval,
Inch-wood, Netherinch, Inchterff, Inchbelly, Auchinvoll. The
north-eastern part of the parish abounds in small knolls of a very
picturesque description, the soil generally light and gravelly;
whereas that of the western is of a deep moss and loamy descrip-
tion, till it rises towards the north, which presents a southerly ex-
posure, affording excellent green pasturage. The Kilsyth hills
form part of that moderately elevated ridge which begins at Green-
ock, running through Kilpatrick, Baldernock, Campsie, Kilsyth,
and Denny, and thus intersects the kingdom from west to east
betwixt the two friths of Clyde and Forth. None of these hills
rise to a height which can be termed majestic; yet the Meikleben,
which seems to unite the Campsie and Kilsyth hills, is 1500 feet
above the sea,-a noble-looking hill, the top of which is seen
from a great distance in the direction of Lanark, and forms a
striking land-mark from the Frith of Forth. The Garrel Hill
and Tomtain, or Lairdshill, in this parish, are 1300 feet in height.
From the summit of the latter, a quarter of a mile to the west of
Bardowie, on the Takmadoon road (Touchmadam, supposed),
there is one of the most extensive and varied views in the kingdom.
Part of at least fourteen counties can be seen from it. To the
South, an extensive plain stretches out to the naked eye to Broad-
lawhill, in the parish of Tweedsmuir, Peebles-shire; to the west,
as far as Goatsfell, in Arran; to the east, to the Pentland and
Lammermuir Hills; to the north-east, the Lomonds, in Fife, are
see; while the prospect to the north presents an endless su succes-
sion of hills upon hills. The southern side of the strath is a more
gentle rising ground, in the direction of Graham's Dike, by Cal-
                                    4


