
                            ALFORD.                        497

list a very complete one.  It is transmitted along with this ac-
count, and must be esteemed curious, as exhibiting the character
of the vegetation of a parish in the north of Scotland, as remote
from the sea and the higher Scotch alps and large towns, as any
other that could be named, having, besides, the peculiarity that
the rocks are exclusively the siliceous and argillaceous primitive
ones.  The whole number of flowering plants is only 306; and
we shall give here the numbers that belong to some of the more
important natural orders of Hooker's Flora Scotica:

<TABLE>
   Gramineae       35     Primulaceae      3      Rosaceae         15
   Cyperaceae      19     Labiatae        12      Leguminosae      15
   Junceae         11     Scrophularinae  15      Hypericineae      4
   Orchideae        7     Boragineae       5      Geraniaceae       4
   Coniferae        2     Ericeae          4      Caryophylleae    12
   Salicinae        7     Compositae      30      Cruciferae        8
   Euphorbiaceae    2     Rubiaceae        6      Ranunculaceae     8
   Polygoneae      12     Umbelliferaea    7

   Our attention having been directed to the subject by Dr Hook-
er, we are enabled to give the following heights above the sea, at
which some of the cultivated plants succeed in this parish.

<TABLE>
Feet.
1200 Larch. This valuable tree appears to find, in our region of primitive rocks, a
     soil well adapted to it.  It thrives better than any other tree at the inferior
     heights, and ripens its wood early.
1100 Birch.
1050 Scotch fir.
1000 Broom.
 950 Oats ripen fully here, and are attended by all the plants of our common hus-
     bandry in full perfection, including potatoes.  Greens, and some cabbages, white
     peas, and flax, also succeed.
     Aller is native.
 900 Ash, elm, (Ulmue montana,) gooseberries ripen.
 800 Cherries, jargonelle pears, raspberries, hawthorn.
 700 Beech, Quercus sessiliflora.
 700 Quercus robur, (dwarfish).
 500 Ribstone pippin apple.
 450 Achan pear, lime, Salix alba, laburnum.
 420 A fine silver fir at Haughton deserves notice, as it shews the species is well ad-
     apted to our soil and climate.  It is 92 years old, more than 10 feet in girth,
     and 76 feet high-measuring upwards of 200 cubic feet.  It is at present grow-
     ing very rapidly.

   The greatly varied heights and exposure of the lands in this
parish afford great facilities for ascertaining the influence of as-
pect on the various kinds of cultivated plants.  Trees and shrubs
which have to endure the severity of the winter storms are, on
land having a westerly or north, westerly aspect, always compara-
tively stunted and irregular in there growth.  It does not appear,
that, among the remaining aspect, any one is much to be prefer-
red to another for these plants.  With regard to the annual and
herbaceous plants, the effect of aspect appears to be insignificant,
   ABERDEEN.                             I i


