
                           FORDYCE.                            189

      Wood.-The gederal-kinds of trees are, Scotch fir, larch, and
   ash. With the exception, indeed, of a small thriving plantation
   of the last, in the vicinity of the old Castle of the Boyne, the
   Scotch fir and larch are by far the most predominant description.
   The plantations are duly cared for, and the youno, woods regular-
   ly thinned from time to time, as they require. These tbinnings,
   however, do not realize much to the proprietor.
      Rent, Wages, &c.-The average rent of arable land in the
   parish, per imperial acre, is 16s. 3d. Grazing an ox or cow
   for the sulmer may cost from L. 2, 10s. to L. 3; and the
   keep for the winter, a like sum. Grazing a full-grown sheep
   for a year, 7s. 6d. The ordinary rate of a labotirer's wages
   per day in'summer, without victuals, is from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 10d.,
   and in winter, from 1s. to 1s. 4d.; a mason's from 2s. 6d. to 3s. ;
   a wright's from 2s. to 2s. 6d.; a slater's from 2s. to 2s. 6d., with
   a proportional rate for the winter. When victuals are afforded,
   sixpence is the usual deduction made from these rates. Male
   farm-servaiits (Ist class) receive, exclusive of board, from L. 6 to
   L.7 in the half year; 2d class, from L. 4 to L. 5; and female
   servants from L. 2 to L. 2, 5s. Flax raised in the parish for do.
   mestic use may be estimated at 5s. 3d. per stone imperial, and
   Cheviot wool at L. 1, 1s. per do.
      Husbandry.-The common breed of cattle has already been
   mentioned. Not a little has been done of late for its improvement
   by the premiums given for superior stock, both by the Banffshire
   Farmer Club, and the Highland Society. Since 1829 the short-
   horned or Teeswater bull has been introduced; and the result has
   been a decided advantage, both as regards size and facility of fat-
   tening. With the view also of improving the breed of horses, an
   enterprising farmer lately brought down several fine Clydesdale
   mares, both in sxmmetry and strength very superior to the ordi-
   nary class of the district. Nor are the improvements confined to-
   this department of husbandry. Draining is carried on to a large
   extent, and with great activity. On one farm, which may be given
   as a specimen, there have been completed, since 1837, not less than
   10,175 yards of open ditches, and 17,998 of drains, on the
   plan recommended by Mr Smith of DeaDston, besides 1600 of
   march ditches, cut by the heritor. On some of the other farms
   the draining has been nearly to the same extent. The introduc-
   tion of bone manure has been productive of great benefit; and it
   is now extensively used. Several new thrashing-milis have been


