
                                DRAINIE.                              149

Minerals, Rocks, and Caverns.- In the Coulard Hill, between
Lossieniouth and Stotfield, there are appearances of lead, said
to be of the verv best quality.  It is found in detached mas-
ses imbedded in the rocks, which are of fluor spar.  Dr Lewis
Gordon, in the last Statistical Account of this parish, , informs-
us, that some adventurers from England expended in his time,
more than L. 500, but could discover no vein of ore worth
working; but had it been worth working, the ignorant dissipated
fellow employed to make the trial, was capable of spending a much
greater sum to no purpose.  VerY near this, there is a vein of lime-
stone, and a powerful spring- of fresh water, issuing forth at low
ebb tides near the old Stotfield harbour.  The whole range of rock
along the Causea shore is one uninterrupted mass of freestone, lying
on horizontal strata differing in thickness, hardness, and colour.
The ornamental hewn work of all the great mansions in this and the
neiglibouring counties, has been taken frorn the Causea quarries,
and Thames Street in London was at one time payed with stones
from Lossiernouth.
Gerardine's cave, in Elgin charters denorninated Holy-Man-
bead, probably the abode of a hermit, was about twelve feet squaire.
   It was ornamented with a Gothic door and window, and com-
manded a long but solitary prospect of the eastern coast. Its
Gothic door and window were demolished about sixty years ago
by a drunken sailor, and the whole cave has since been scoop-
ed out by quarriers.
   The Causea caverns, caves, and fissures are so numerous, as to
bid defianceto the wanton spoiler.  There,the violence of winds and
waves has cut the softer parts of the rock into many fantastic forms
resembling caves, arches, and pillars.  Those immediately West of
the village of Causea, are truly beautiful.  The descent to them
is by a safe and gently sloping road, to a beautiful verdant lawn,
bounded'on three of its sides by perpendicular rocks from 60 to
100 feet high, as smooth and regular as the walls of a garrison.
The entrance to this -lawn, through a natural arch, its stately pillars
and lofty alcoves, repay the trouble of visiting them. No sooner
does the stranger enter, than the gulls, daws, and pigeons, which
nestle on the ledges of these rocks, and are usually annoyed by, the
little urchins who frequent them, -take wing.  Of this wonderful
scenery, the Gull's or Gow's Castle, as it is called, is to the young
most attractive, It stands, a monument of former, times isolated a
detached from the rocks of which it once formed apart, And tells


