
				BUITTLE.                      211

Munshes, in favourable seasons, yielded, during the latter part of
the season, from 15 tn 20 salmon daily. On one occasion 50 were
taken at one draught. And now, for years past, not one-half of
50 has been legally taken during the whole season. It is believed
that all the fishings in the Urr would not, if now let, bring L.10
of annual rent.
	It is difficult to say to what cause this failure is to be attributed.
The stake-nets at the mouth of the river, on Balcary sands,
in the parish of Rerwick, erected within the last twenty years, (in
which a great number of salmon are now taken,) may in some
measure account for it. The proprietors having little interest
in the river fisheries, use no vigilance in protecting the breeding
fish, so that poaching during the close season is carried on to a
great extent. The application of lime to the land, the great ex-
tent of drainage, whereby marshes and swamps throw off their
superfluous waters at once, and thus prevent the salmon in dry
seasons from getting up the river, have all, it has been imagined,
tended to injure the river fisheries.
	No attempt has hitherto been made by any of the inhabitants
to establish the white fishing, along our shores.

         		 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Castle Douglas is the nearest market-town. Paln`ckie is the
only village in the parish. It is situated on the river Vrr, and has
a considerable trade with Liverpool, Whitehaven, Workington,
Maryport, and other towns in the north of England; with Glas-
gow and Irvine, in the west of Scotland, and also whth North Ame-
rica. Coals, lime, wood, slates, and merchant goods are import-
ed. Farm produde, wood, fat cattle, and sheep, are exported.
Trade has greatly increased at the port of Palnackie, since the for-
mer Statistical Account was written. The additional quantity of
lime used for building and agriculture, the increased consumption of
coals, * the increasing prosperity of the town of Castle Douglas, of
which Palnackie may be considered the port, and the general
prosperity of the country, have led to this result.
	The river Urr is navigable at the lowest neap-tides, from its
confluence with the Solway to Palnackie, being a distance of four
miles, by vessels drawing from 11 to 12 feet of water; and at high
spring tides, by vessels drawing 16 or 17 feet of water. From
Palnackie to Dalbeattie, a distance of four miles, it is navigable
by vessels drawing 8 feet of water, at a tide rising 15 feet.

<FOOTNOTE>Fifty years ago only two, or at most three, cargoes of coals were imported. The
average number of cargoes for the last three years is 124.


