
                                 COLLACE.                        217

felt, and justly complained of.  Should this grievance be inquired
into by the proper authorities, they would find it quite practicable,
and easy to reform so glaring an abuse.  This would greatly pro-
note the interests of religion, and contribute much to the comfort
and convenience of many thousands, in country parishes.  As it
would not be proposed to interfere with the civilia, but merely with
the quoad sacra of the church, the arrangements, to give conveni-
ency to the fullest extent, would be settled without the smallest
opposition.
 The glebe contains nearly 9 imperial acres, and may be worth
L. 15 per annum.  The manse and offices, which were built in
1778, on rather a small scale, have been repaired within these
twenty years, and so much improved and enlarged, as to render
them more commodious.  The amount of stipend is L. 150 yearly,
including L. 87, 3s. 8d. from Government.
  The average number of persons receiving regular parochial aid
is 7.  The average sum allowed to each is about L. 4 per annnum,
including 6s. to each for coal money.  A house and garden are
provided for each of thdm gratis.  Small sums are occasionally
given to such as are reduced to straits, but who are not on the
poor's roll.  There is also an extended roll for coal money, which
is distributed annually on the Monday after the sacrament.
 The number of families in the parish attending the chapels of
Dissenters or Seceders is 12.
 Education.-The parochial school, which is centrical, being close
to the church, is the only one in the parish.  The salary is the
maximum, and the accommodation most complete.  The fees
may amount to L. 30 per annum, and this arises more from the
number of scholars (averaging upwards of 70 for three quarters
of the year,) than from the rate of payment, which is very mo-
derate; beginning with 2s. per quarter for English, and rising
only to 3s. and 4s., when writing, arithmetic, and geography are
included.
 The schoolmaster, besides being qualified to instruct the rising
generation in the common routine of country schools, is capable
of teac	hing geometry, mathematics and many other branches
of education, which are seldom required here.  There is no fa-
mily without a Bible, and no member of it exceeding ten years of
age who cannot read it.  To assist in effecting this in the case of
poor scholars, there is a small fund available.  It arises from the
mortification of seat-rents in the old church of Collace, by the fa-


