
	  456                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          the improvement of the parish, by bringing a large waste in the
	  western division of the parish into arable land, judiciously divided,
	  and substantially enclosed.
	     But beyond any other proprietor in the north, Arthur John
	  Robertson, Esq. of Inches, is said to have effected the most ex-
	  tensive `improvements within the shortest time, having brought
	  into the highest state of cultivation, no less than 300 acres of
	  moor, formerly wet, cold, and useless, the subdivisions being taste-
	  fully and judiciously surrounded with beltings of oak, ash, and
	  elm. They are soon to be converted into permanent grass parks,
	  and, having streams of the purest water introduced to each, will be
	  found of great advantaae, as there are no grass parks in that
	  part of the country. Nor are these improvements confined to
	  prorietors,-tbe farmers, nay, the very cottars begin to make such
	  improvements, as their circumstances admit; and though much re-
	  mains to be done, what has been done, will challenge comparison
	  with any district in the north of Scotland.
	     Amidst so many and so great improvements, we cannot but ob-
	  serve with pain, that the beautiful and compact property of Dal-
	  cross should remain nearly in the same slovenly state in which it
	  was, a hundred years ago.
	     Planting.-Few places in the north seem originally less indebt-
	  ed to nature than Croy; all her bounty consisted in dry stinted
	  heath, and all her beauty, in some straggling allers along the banks
	  of the Nairn. About 100 years ago, Hugh Rose, the thirteenth
	  of that name, planted a considerable extent of moor to the north of
	  the castle; and such was the state of the country and want of roads,
	  that the fir plants were carried from Perth in creels, suspended from
	  crook saddles. They have grown to a large size, and are of the best
	  quality. It appears, however, that, in the same place, there had
	  been a plantation of the Caledonian, pine, some of which are still
	  standing, and of uncommon dimensions, serving for years as land-
	  marks to mariners in the Moray Frith. Their lateral branches
	  equal, in size, to planted fir of forty years' growth. One lately cut
	  down showed the venerable age of 180-years, and there are some
	  remaining, apparently much more ancient; whereas, the fir of Ca-
	  nadian origin, now generally planted, seldom lives above 80 years,
	  and, in most cases, shows, before that period, symptoms of decay.
	  It were well that the seeds of our ancient forest pines were sown,
	  as they are more congenial to our soil and climate. About the year
	  1776, Mr Davidson of Cantray planted about 300 acres on a useless


