
                       PARISH OF LITTLE DUNKELD.
         PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.
                    THE REV. ROBERT ALLAN, MINISTER.

 		    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	THE parish of Little Denkeld is a united parish, consisting of
        Little Dunkeld and the old parish of Laganallachy. Its extent
	from east to west is 16 miles. It is of an irregular form, nearly
	resembling the letter y, the narrow extremity being toward the
	east, and the broad towards the west. It is divided into three
	districts, viz. Murthly, Strathbran, and the Bishoprick, these two
	last diverging from the other near the village of Inver, and sepa-
	rated from each other by a mountainous tract of waste ground.
	Though called Little Dunkeld, it is of much greater extent and
        population than its neighbouring parish of Dunkeld, and has pro-
        bably got its name from the circumstnce of there being formerly
	a small village on this side of the Tay opposite to Dunkeld,
	There is an extensive range of hilly ground throughout the pa-
	rish, with a considerable quantity of arable land in the low grounds,
	and which also extends a good way up the face of the mountains
	on each side. The celebrated hill of Birnam rises in majestic
	grandeur, on the souther extremity of the parish, to a very can-
        spicuous elevation, from the top of which there is a find and ex-
	tensive view of the surrounding country.
		Hydrograpy. - There are several lakes in the parish, all
	abounding in excellent trout. In one of them (Loch Skiach)
	there is said to be a good deal of pike. There lakes lie in the
        mountains which separate the two western divisions of the parish.
	The river Bran, which gives its name to the district through which
	it runs, takes its origin from Loch Freuchy, at the south-west ex-
	tremity of the parish. It is precipitous in its course and has some
        fine eataracts in its progress to wards the Tax, which it joins oppo-
	site to Dunkeld. The scenery on the river Bran, for three
	miles above Little Dunkeld is very romantic. The Rambling
	Bridge is an object of curiosity to visitors. The bridge is thrown


