
     Statistical Account

up his charge.  Attempts have since been made to procure
a successor; but either from want of funds, or from a differ-
ence of opinion in the choice of their pastor, or from both
causes united, such attempts have hitherto failed, and the
few who once were zealous in the support of this meeting,
now go occasionally to the different churches from which
they had separated themselves.-Here the average number
of marriages in a year is 8; of baptisms, 20; and of burials,
15; but, although the registers are kept with care, no ac-
curate conclusions can be drawn from them respecting po-
pulation*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*According to a prejudice of very ancient date, the common wish is
to be buried with our fathers; and from the change of residence, which
ever must take place among the great body of the people, and the fluctua-
ting state of all human affairs, there are not above two farmers in these
bounds who bury in this place.  They carry their decealed friends else-
where; and, in return, the dead are brought here from neighbouring
parishes, and sometimes from a very considerable distance.  The register
of baptisms is not much to be depended on; for, in spite of the advice and
remonstances of their minister, the people frequently neglect to register
the names of their children, and, what is to be regretted and condemned,
the higher ranks are in this respect the most faulty.  They seldom regi-
ster either marriages or baptisms, which surely must proceed from inad-
vertency; but they ought to consider, that they thereby deprive the session-
clerk of a very considerable perquisite, and render the records imperfect
True, indeed, 3 d. is, by act of Parliament, regularly levied for Govern-
ment on each birth, marriage, or burial, when registered; but there seems
to be no clause in the act compelling people of every descriptions to regi-
ster uniformly and without exception; or, if there be, in whom is the
compulsatory power lodged? and at whose instance is the prosecution
to be undertaken?  The session-clerk has neither time nor authority to
prosecute; and if he had, the prosecution of one half of the delinquents
would to him in many cases prove instant ruin.  As the trifling sums
levied can be no great object to Government, could all or such propor-
tion of the threepences be allowed for the clerk's trouble, as would effec-
tually unite his interest with his duty, hence would arise considerable
emoluments to a needy but useful body of men, and parish-records be in
every instance complete.


