
			LAURENCEKIRK.                           131

the original soil, clay, is well adapted for agricultural purposes.
The section of the parish north of the Luther is inferior, in every
respect, to that already described; the soil is generally cold and
moorish, and is incumbent on a retentive bottom, or on clay mixed
with coarse gravel, strongly impregnated with iron. The land has
been partially drained; but much still remains to be done in this
respect. From the retentive nature of the subsoil, the operation
is rendered expensive, and the success is by no means certain."  *
	Plantations.--The plantations in the parish consist chiefly of
larch, spruce, and Scots firs, generally on inferior moorish ground.
The soil appears rather favourable to the growth of hard wood.
On the grounds where the old mansion-house of Haulkerton was si-
tuated, there is a good deal of old wood of various kinds, and there
are several oak trees at Johnston; hedge-rows of ash, elm, and
beech appear to do well, where attention is paid to pruning and
protection.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	There are no ancient records connected with the parish, or an-
tique relies belonging to it. A good many years ago, there was
found in a field, near Johnston Lodge, a small Roman coin, whth
a different head and inscription on either side, but the only words
legible are Aurelius on the one side, and Antoninus on the other.
It is in the possession of Mrs Farquhar. About twenty years ago,
a considerable number, nearly forty, of large silver coins were found
on the farm of Northhill, about the foundation of the old dwelling-
house. They were mostly, if not all, Spanish, and in excellent
condition. A good many of them are still preserved in the neigh-
bourhood, and have dates 1616, 1622, 1623. The only plans of
the parish are those of the different estates belonging to the several
proprietors, besides that included in Mr Garden's general map of
the county. The first remarkable fact in the history of the parish
maybe considered to be the erection of the Burgh of Barony in 1779.
	Eminent Men.-- Among the eminent characters with which the
parish may claim connection, may be mentioned Thomas Ruddi-
man, the grammarian, who was settled parochial schoolmaster in
1695, at the age of twenty, and continued in that office till 1700,
when he was taken to Edinburgh by the well-known Dr Pitcairn.
	The name of Francis Garden, commonly called Lord Garden-
stone, as one of the Lords of Session, is intimately associated with
the history of this parish. He was the second son of Garden of
Troups, and was born June 24th 1721. In 1765, hd began to

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Robertson's Notes,


