
436 			FORFARSHIRE.

west direction; from these defiles, the appearance of the sur-
rounding mountains, for height and grandeur, can scarcely be sur-
passed by any mountain scenery in the Highlands of Scotland.
	The temperature of the atmosphere, owing to the surrounding
high mountains, is frequently of considerable humidity, especially
in the northern district of the parish.
        Hydrography.-The united parish is most abundantly supplied
with springs. Of these, some are intermittent, but the greater
number are perennial. Some of their waters are strongly chaly-
beate, the rest are pure and of excellent quality. There are three
lakes or lochs in the united parish, namely, Wharral, Brany, and
Esk. Loch Wharral is situated in the bosom of thd mountain
range, which forms the north-east boundary of the parish, about
seven miles to the north of the church of Cortachy, and upwards
of 1000 feet above the level of the valley of the Esk. It is fully
a mile in circumference. In several parts, its depth is very consi-
derable. It is surrounded by mountainous summits, except on the
south side, where its superabundant waters descend into the river
Esk. Loch Brany in Clova is situated about two miles to the
north-west of Loch Wharral, on the side of the same mountain
range, and about the same elevation. It is about a mile and a-
half in circumference, and of great depth in several places. The
lofty summits of the surrounding mountains, with their rocky and
dangerous precipices, give to the whole landscape a wild and ter-
rific, appearance. Loch Esk is situated amongst the mountains,
about six miles to the north-west of the valley of Clova. It is
about half a mile in circumference. It is in no part of great
depth. The surrounding mountain-scenery, although very exten-
sive, has little in it very striking or grand. The only river in the
united parish is the South Esk. Although Loch Esk is generally
understood to be its source, and affords it a constant supply of
water, there are several mountain streams from a still higher ele-
vation, and considerably larger than that from the loch, particu-
larly the stream of Falfearnie, which may be properly regarded
as the source of this river. The waters of the Esk have a rapid
descent from the mountains over a rocky channel, until they reach
the valley of Clova, where they are joined by the White Water,
a very considerable stream, formed amongst the mountains sur-
rounding the defile to the south-west of the valley, The South-
esk river in its course through, Clova and Cortachy, receives
mony tributary mountain streams. In general it runs very slowly,
in a very winding channels and in a south-east direction. Its course


