
		     PARISH OF KILMARNOCK.

	PRESBYTERY OF URVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

REV. JAMES M'KINLAY, D. D.}
REV. DAVID STRONG,        } Laigh Church,}
REV. DAVID STRONG,        }              }MINISTERS.
REV. ANDREW HAMILTON,      High Church,  }

                I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.* 
	Name.--THE name Kilmarnock evidently means the cell of
Marnock, who is said to have been a bishop or confessor in Scot-
land in the beginning of the fourth century; and whose fame as a
saint must have been widely extended, as Kilmaronock in Dumbar-
tonshire, Inch Marnock in Loch Lomond, and Inch Marnock ad-
jacent to Bute, bear record.
	Extent, &c.--The parish is about 9 miles in extreme length, and
4 in breadth; and the number of superficial acres is 8340. It is
bounded on the east, by Loudoun; on the north and west, by Fen-
wick and Kilmaurs; and on the south, by the river Irvine, which
separates the presbyteries of Ayr and Irvine, and divides the dis-
trict of Cunningham from that of Kyle.
	The country has a gentle slope towards the river, which flows
from east to west; and as the traveller approaches, especially from
the south, while his eye sweeps from Loudoun hill to the peaks of
Arran he sees the town beneath him in the midst of a rich and
finely cultivated valley.
	Meteorology.--The climate of this parish is mild, and the mean
temperature of the low-lying portions of it, on which the town is
built, appears to be higher than that of the adjoining parishes,
which lie more inland. The state of the atmosphere as to heat
and moisture varies much, and frequently; and from our proxi-
mity to the Western Ocean, and the great prevalence of south
and west winds, our wet and cloudy days considerably outnumber
those of drought and sunshine. The air is thus loaded with aque-

<FOOTNOTE>
	 The branches Topography and Natural History, Population, Agriculture,
Eccesiastical State of the Laigh Parish, Poor and Miscellaneous Observations,
were drawn up by Mr Strong; the Civil History, Manufactures, Police, Means of
Communication, Ecclesiastical State of the High Church Parish, Education, Lite-
rature, Charitable Institutions, Friendly Societies, by Mr Hamilton.


