
546                         LANARKSHIRE.

and geography. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is
chalder, 14 bolls, amounting to nearly L.32. Besides his salary,
he draws the interest of 500 merks mortified in 1708 by the Earl
of Hyndford. His fees may amount to L.17 per annum. With
respect to a house, he may be said to have the legal accommoda-
tion, in so far as he has two apartments, but they are very small.
An allowance is granted on account of the garden falling short
of the legal extent. The general expense of education for the year
may be estimated about 10s. 6d. This is to be understood as ap-
plicable only to the common branches. All thd youth betwixt six
and fifteen years of age have been taught to read, and generally to
write; and it is not supposed, that there are more than two or three
above fifteen years of age who cannot read or write.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor is not great,
although greater than at some former periods. Only a few of the
most necessitous get a regular allowance, the practice having been
for the session to grant, from time to time, such occasional relief
as the necessities of the individuals seemed to require; and this
was done with the view of keeping up as much as possible the
spirit of independence, which it is to be lamented does not prevail
to the same extent as formerly. The collections for the poor are
necessarily limited, in consequence of there being no resident he-
ritor. They may amount to L.8 per annum, and the deficiency
for the support of the poor is at present made up by a voluntary
contribution from the heritors and tenants in equal proportions.
There were some funds belonging to the poor, but, owing to par-
ticular circumstances, it has of late been found necessary to up-
lift a portion of them to meet the necessities of the poor.
	There are neither fairs nor ale-houses in the parish.
	Fuel.--The fuel which is chiefly consumed consists of coal,
brought from the parishes of Carnwath or Douglas, at the distance
of eight or nine miles, and costing at the coal-hill about 3s. for
12 cwt.

	November 1838.


