
 250				ARYSHIRE.

Geranium sanguineum, Bloody crane's
    bill.
Lavatera arbores, Sea side tree mallow,
Anagallis tenella, Bog pimpernel.
Lithospermum maritimum, Sea side
    gromwell.
Enanthe pimpinelloides, Parsley water
   dropworth.
Pimpinella saxifraga, Burnet saxifrage.
Anthriscus vulgaris, Com. anthriscu.
Glaucium luteum, Yellow horned poppy.
Cakile maritima, Sea rocket.
Anthyllis vulneraria, Lady's finger
Hypericum pulchrum, Small upright St
    John's wort.
          androsaemum, Tutsan do.
          humifusum, Trailing do.
          calicinum, Larger-flowered do
Pinguicula Lusitanica, Pale butter-wort.
Arundo phragmites, Common reed.
Ligusticum Scoticum, Lovage.
Melica caerulea, Purple melic grass.
Solidago virgaurea, Golden rod.
Schoenus nigricans, Balck bog rush.
Raphanus maritimus, Sea radish.
Cotyledon umbilicus, wall penny-wort.
Triodia decumbens, Decumbent heath
    grass.
Sium latifolium, Broad-leaved water pars-
    nip.
Carum yerticillatum, Whorled caraway.
Cirecaea lutetiana, Enchanter's nighshade.
Scolopendrium officinale, Common hart's
    tongue.
Hypnum molluscum, Plumy-crested
   feather-moss.
Sticta pulmonaria, Lungwort sticta.
Hookeria lucens, Shining Hookeria.
Campanula latifolia, Round-leaved bell-
   flower.
Drosera rotundifolia, Round-leaved sun-
   dew.
Coronopus Ruellii, Swine's cress.
Eryngium maritimum, Sea holly.
Samolus valerandi, Water pimpernel.
Eupatorium canabinum, Hemp-agrimony
Daucus, Wild carrot.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Kilbride appears originally to have a dependency of the
monastery of Kilwinning, and the cure to have been served by a
vicar,--the monks drawing the rectorial tithes. Since the dissolu-
tion of the Catholic establishment, its boundaries have been alter-
ed, and probably enlarged. About the year 1650, the extensive
properties of Southanan and Crosby were disjoined from Largs,
and annexed quoad omnia to Kilbride; on the south, the two
first quoad omnia, the last only quoad sacra.
	This neighbourhood, with some probability, is said to have been
the scene of conflicts consequent on the Norwegian descent at
Largs in 1263; and doubless it was exposed to much previous
strife with these fierce northern marauders. At the hill previous
berry, before allude to, tradition assert, that a detachment of
the army of Hao was attacked and routed by a body of Scotch-
men, led by Sir Robert Boyd, who is said to have been the pro-
genitor of the family of Kilmarnock, and for these services to have
received agrant of some lands in Cuningham. From the time of
this affairs, which seems finally to have terminated these long pro-
tracted incursions of this restless people, the western shores ever
after enjoyed perhaps a greater degree of quiet than that of almost
any other district of the country.  They continued, however, to


