
              INVERAVEN.                    135

    <TABLE>

	1821, males 1132, females 1360, together, 2492
	1831, males 1203, females 1365, together, 2648
	1836,         -      -     -       _      2707

   From the above table it will be seen that the population, which seems
   to have fallen off for ten years subsequent to Dr Webster's report,.
   has since been gradually increasing,-the most marked increase,
   being within the last few years; in the course of which, the habits
   of the people have undergone a great change to the better.  Pre-.
   vious to the passing of the Act of Parliament, in 1823, for the en-   '
   couragement of legal distillation in the Highlands of Scotland, the.
   inhabitants of Glenlivet almost'witbout an exception, and many
   also in the parish church district, were more or less engaged in
   manufacturing and carrying to market smuggled whisky; but the
   energetic measures taken by GoverDment for the suppression of
   smuggling have proved eminently successful here; the male po,
   pulation, instead of prowling over the country in search of a mar-
   ket for their whisky, and being constantly on the watch to elude
   the eye of officers of excise, are now happily and successfully em-,
   ployed in the cultivation of farms, or in prosecuting handicrafts;,
   -while the females, who were in the habit of spending no small
   portion of their time, by night as well as by day, in the bothie,-
   a prey to the licentious and immoral,-are now more safely and,
   suitably employed in domestic occupations, or in performing  such
   portions of field labour as fall to the lot of their sex, in the best
   cultivated and most civilized districts of the country.
	There is only one family of independent fortune which lives in,
   the parish, and that only for half the year.  Some have large hold-
   ings, and most are in easy circumstances for their station. in life.
   Cottars, that is, subtenants who hold houses and kail-yards from
   the principal tenant, are sometimes thickly set down; but there
   is no village within the parish.  The great bulk of the population
   are engaged in agricultural pursuits, though there is a due propor-
   tion of tradesmen to supply the wants of a rural district.  Towards
   the borders of Kirkmichael and Cromdale, Gaelic is spoken by  a
   few; but it is fast dying out, and the number who either, speak or
   understand it, is becoming smaller every year.

 		  IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.-Of late the agriculture of this parish  has  made
   rapid progress.  Some time ago, black oats, a species of grain now
   scarcely to be seen, were very common. Then, the aid of      lime
   was rarely sought. and, except at Ballindalloch and a few other
   places, two-horse ploughs and improved implements of husbanry


