
474                            FIFESHIRE.

  Rate of Wages.-Farm-labourers when hired by the year re-
ceive from L.10 to L.12 Sterling, with 6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal, each
140 imperial pounds in weight, and Is. weekly for milk. The
foreman, as he is denominated, who has a species of authority over
the other farm-servants, and who is in some measure responsible
for the proper execution of the farming operations, receives from
L.2 to L.10 more than the others.  Female servants hired by
the year receive from L.5 to L.7. Labourers engaged by the
day, receive in summer from Is. 4d. to Is. 6d., and in winter, from
Is. 2d. to Is. 4d. daily, the labourers furnishing their own victuals.
Married farm-servants are, in many instances, allowed the use of a
cow, and when this is the case, they receive only about L.7 of
wages. They have in addition to their meal, however, an allow-
ance of ground on the farm, sufficient for sowing a peck of lintseed,
and for planting from I cwt. to 2 cwt. of potatoes. The black-
smith in general charges the farmer for each article furnished
by him, but a practice has been lately introduced, of allowing
him at the rate of L.2 Sterling annually, for each pair of horses
employed on the farm. For this allowance, he furnishes shoes
for the horses, and keeps the various agricultural implements in
a proper state of repair.
   Live-Stoch.-In former times, a breed of cattle was very gene-
rally reared in the county, denominated the Fife breed. This is
still to be found in the district, and some of the agriculturists are,
of opinion, that it is better adapted to the soil and climate than
any other variety of the species. A number of other varieties,
however, have been introduced, so that the breed of cattle now
to be found in the district is of a mongrel description. But few
sheep were for many years reared or pastured in the parish; of
late, they have become more abundant, and are either of the High-
land or Cheviot breeds. The character of the husbandry of the
district is good, and does not appear to be susceptible of many al-
terations, that would prove useful and profitable.
   About 55 acres of ground contiguous to the estuary of the
Eden, which formed a part of that estuary, or were apt to be over-
flowed at stream tides, have at two different periods been secured
by expensive embankments, and the acquisitions are now in a
state of productive tillage.  A plan was, at one period, under con-
sideration, of securing a much larger extent of the estuary, but
the proprietors interested in the 'undertaking were doubtful whether
the new, acqtisition would have remunerated them for the expense


