
618                           PERTHSHIRE.

that any fragments of rocks are, to be seen either in this clay or
sand, and no remains of animals or plants have been noticed in
them. In the higher parts of the parish the alluvium is more vari-
ed in its character. In some places it consists of a species of clay,
or, as it is called, mortar, peculiarly tough, and containinga consider-
able portion of calcareous matter, but altogether destittte of stones
or pebbles. In other places it consists of a clayey earth mingled
with quantities of the debris of the old red sand-stone and masses
of the trap rocks; most commonly it consists of a soft brownish
sand, in which the layers of deposition are apparent when a per-
pendicular section is made, and in which rounded water-worn boul-
ders of gneiss, greenstone, &c. sometimes occur.
     Soils.__In order to give any thing like a correct account of these,
it is necessary to divide the parish into three parts. The highest
part, which comprises about one-third of the whole, is a rich brown
loam, mostly incumbent on the soft brownish sand above referred
to, but partly on clay. That which lies on sand is deep, varying
from 1 1/2 to 3 feet, and consequently dry and very rich; that on
clay is not sn deep nor dry, though in other respects similar. In
depth it varies from 10 to 20 inches. The next division extends
along the south, west, and north sides of the former, being nar-
row on the north, but of considerable breadth on the snuth and
west sides. The part of this division which lies farthest south
has been reclaimed from the Tay at no very distant date, being but
little elevated above high water-mark, and considerably below the
height of, spring tides. It is composed of a rich alluvial clayey
loam, fitted for thd production of every kind of crop in large re-
turns. The remaining portion of this division consists of a strong
adhesive, but fertile clay, with the exception of a small part on the
south-east side of it, which is of a much less adhesive and less
fertile nature. It is what is called "end clay," i. e. clay standing
in vertical layers. Being easily acted on by the weather,__frost
quickly pulverizing it,__rain, again, running it into a solid body,__
drought, as suddenly separating,it into flakes__the roots of plants
are thus so exposed to extremes, that they are prevented from de-
riving the nourishment needful for the, promotion of their health
and vigour. The third division consists of 80 acres imperial ex-
elusive of embankments, reclaimed, since 1826 from the Tay
The soil is a very rich alluvial loam, producing heavy crops of all
kinds withnut  manure.
     Boulders.__There are but few of these now to be seen; but


