
                               ASHKIRK.                        271

on the farms in the upper part of the parish are subject to a dis-
ease known by the name of "the louping-ill," which in a cold and
barren spring often causes very severe loss both of ewes and lambs.
     Zoology.--That this parish was formerly inhabited by animals
that have long since disappeared is proved by the best of all evi-
dence,--the bones of the animals themselves found in various marl
mosses.  Besides the horns of the stag already mentioned, the
horns of the urus were dug from the same moss.  There are now
no birds or animals that can be regarded as peculiar to the parish,
but such as are common to the surrounding district.  There are
still a few foxes, and plenty of hares, rabbits, black and red grouse,
and partridges.
     Botany.--In the bog lands, the orchis may be found in many
of its beautiful varieties; and in moss lands the Eriophorum vagi-'
natum in great abundance, and the Trollius Europaeus are also
to be seen in various meadow lands.  The natural grasses found in
this parish are the Scirpus caespitosus; it grows on thin mossy
soil, mixed with heath, but as it soon fades, it is of no value for
winter pasture.  The Nardus stricta and Aira caerulea being
short lived are also less valuable.  But the Juncus squarrosus be-
ing an evergreen, and a hardy perennial, is of considerable import-
ance.  But the most valuable spring grass for sheep is the Eri-
ophorum vaginatum; and Sesleria caerulea, as it remains green
during the spring months, is highly valuable; and the Juncus acu-
tiflorus is of great value, both for pasture and hay for cattle dur,
ing the winter.
     That a great quantity and variety of natural wood, once existed
in the parish is proved by the large quantity of decayed wood
found in various mosses; but both the quantity and variety of n-,
tural wood which now remain are inconsiderable.  But, on a few
estates, their place has been well supplied by large and thriving
plantations.  Archibald Cochrane, Esq. of Ashkirk, has planted
upon his estate above 40 acres, consisting of the various species pf
fir, and with a proper mixture of ash, elm, and oak.  And John C.
Scott, Esq. of Synton, has planted upon his estate 230 acres, laid
out with great judgment and taste, both for shelter and ornament;
and, with the exception of a few old trees, around the house, the
whole has been planted by the present spirited proprietor.  There
is a very fine old tree near the house, which measures 151/2 feet in
circumference; and what is very remarkable, there is an oak mea-
suring 51/2 feet in circumference, which was planted by the hands of


