
190                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

tained; but they are computed to vary from about 900 to between
1200 and 1300 feet in height. The lowest point in the parish is
on the Kale, at the north-eastern extremity, about 460 feet above
sea level.
   The beds of Kale and Capehope waters are mostly formed of
gravel and sand, with stones and fragments of rock similar to that
of the adjoining hills, all considerably smoothed and rounded by
attrition. The latter stream is a little more rapid in its course
than the former, and flows with a velocity of one mile in twenty-
six minutes. The beds of both streams afford the finest sharp
sand for building. Excellent parish roads have been long open in
the direction of these streams; but the want of wood in this tract,
and, indeed, the scantiness of plantation between this and the Eng-
lish border, may have induced hasty travellers to reproach Scotland
as a country destitute of trees.
   Meteorology.-The temperature of the atmosphere must be con-
siderably influenced by the nakedness of the parish and of the neigh-
bourhood, which is generally destitute of growing wood. The ther-
mometer ranges from about 28° in winter to 76° in summer on Fah-
renheit's scale. The medium temperature of the year is 48.7° of
Fahrenheit. The rains which prevail most are towards the end
of August and the month of September. The heaviest rains are
from the westward; and storms of thunder, accompanied with tor-
rents of rain from the south-west, are of not unfrequent occurrence,
especially after a continuance of dry weather. Sometimes, also,
in the spring months, there are frequent and heavy rains from the
south-east. Our stormiest weather is generally from this quarter.
Our steadiest and driest weather is from the north and north-west.
The soil being either naturally dry, or drained where it was damp,
the frequent recurrence of showers is beneficial, so that we are
little afraid of a wet season. The average number of days in which
rain falls throughout the year, is about sixty. The climate is some-
what moist; and this may be in some measure accounted for from
the quantity of high grounds contained in and surrounding the pa-
rish, which must attract any vapours that may arise and are driven
in this direction. But the parish may be regarded on the whole as
remarkably healthy. From the sudden changes of temperature,
however, to which it is exposed, pulmonary complaints are not un-
common; and cases of chronic rheumatism, catarrh, quinsy, and
others of the inflammatory kind, occasionally occur. Malig-


