
            UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.                      1155

like all those of whom the college is patron, chosen by compara-
tive trial.  A preference is given, by the will of the founder, to
those of the names of Stuart and Simpson.
  26. Johnston's Bursaries.-Two bursars, at L.4, 10s. each, to
be chosen by competition, those of the name of Johnston and
Forbes to be preferred, if found habile.  The Senatus and the
family of Caskieben are joint patrons.
  27. Cruickshank's Bursary.-Founded in 1815 by Mr James
Cruickshank of Touxhill, who ordered L.400, deducting the le-
gacy-duty of L.40, to be lent on personal security, and the inte-
rest to be paid to one bursar of the name of Cruickshank or Jopp.
For some time it yielded L.18S per annum, but in consequence of
the bankruptcy of the parties to whom the trustees had lent the
capital, it has been much reduced, so that in future it cannot
yield more than from L.10 to L.12, according to the rate of inte-
rest.  Patron, the minister of Monquhitter.
 28. Macpherson's Bursary.-Founded bx the late Sir John
Macpherson, Bart., for one Highland student.  The founder di-
rected the revenue of the bequest to be paid annually to a new
bursar, but the Senatus found it more likely to promote the ob-
jects of the foundation, to appoint annually a new bursar for four
years, and to pay him the annual revenue of the fund by four equal
annual instalments, that is, during his curriculum of arts.  As the
revenue amounts to L.80, the annual value of the bursary is L.20,
and the foundation thus yields four bursaries of that value,
instead of one at L.90; a sum considered by the Senatus much
too large in proportion to the expense of living and of education
in Aberdeen.  Patrons, the Senatus.
  29. Forbes's Bursaries.-Founded in 1821, by John Forbes,
Esq. of New.  The bequest consists of L.200 long annuities, ex-
piring in 1860, to be applied to the support of eight bursars at
King's and Marischal Colleges, at L.25 each.  Patron, Sir
Charles Forbes of New, Bart.
  30. Simpson Bursaries.-Founded in 1840, by the late Dr
Simpson, an alumnus of King's College, who left upwards of
L.11,000, 3 per cent. consols, for the purpose of founding six
bursaries of L.30 each, and two annual prizes of L.60 each, one
for the best Greek scholar, the other for the best mathematician
in the magistrand class of the year.  The Senatus are patrons of

this splendid bequest, and the bursars are chosen by public, com-
petition.


