
298                        FORFARSHIRE.

pable of containing 20,000 men, the camp at Battledykes must
have contained more than double that number. The station here
is indeed one of great importance. It is situated at the entrance
of the great valley of Strathmore, commanding the whole of the
lowlands beneath the base of the Grampians; and at the same
time it guards the passes of the Highlands through the neighbouring
valleys of Glen Isla, Glen Prosen, and Glen Clova. This camp
at Battledykes communicated with the camp at Ardoch, by means
of the Roman Iter, which passed through the parish. There are
no traces of this Iter now to be seen here. In Maitland's History
of Scotland, it is stated, that, about a hundred years ago, "John
Webster, the farmer of Battledykes, turned up with the plough
the foundation of the road in divers parts in its course throtgh the
camp." Passing through the camp, the Iter continued its progress
for about eleven miles in an east-north-east direction on the south
side of the Esk, under the fort of the hill of Finhaven, and across
the moor of Breehin, till it came to another camp at Wardykes.
This latter camp was so placed as to command the fort of Cater-
thun. The camp at Battledykes communicated also by a smal-
ler Iter with another camp at Haerfaulds, about eight miles distant,
which commanded the whole entrance of Forfarshire.
	The extent and magnitude of the camp at Battledykes, connect-
ed, too, with the other camps in tile neighbourhood, clearly show
what we formerly stated, that there must have been a strong and
numerous body of the tribes at that time in this quarter. Most
likely, some powerful chief occupied the fort on the Hill of Finha-
ven. We can scarcely conceive of any thing more perfect than
the method thus employed for keeping all such in awe and subor-
dination, when we consider that the dwellers in the fort must have
seen the Roman legions continually passing and repassing at the
foot of the hill, from camp to camp. And how strongly and how
constantly must they have been reminded of the presence of their
masters, when we consider that the Roman Camp was full in view
of the fort, and that they must have heard every day the sound of
the trumpet at the setting and the relieving of the watch.
  Finhaven Castle.-There is in this parish another interesting re-
lic of the ancient times, belonging, however, to a much later pe-
riod of the history of Scotland. On the north side of the Hill of
Finhaven, stand the ruins of the Castle of Finhaven, once the re-
sidence of the Earl of Lindsay and Crawford. It is very beauti-


