
690                        PERTHSHIRE

coins are in the same person's possession, and bearing apparently
the date 1070.  They were found in the field between the King's
Stables and the ruins of King Robert's castle.  Glaic,an-righ is
a hollow way, cut through the side of a steep eminence, which
forms part of the glebe.  This is supposed to have been the ac-
cess to the royal residence, and must have been a work of im-
mense labour.
   There are, near Middlehaugh, the lines of an encampment,
such as are so frdquently met with in Perthshire; and there is,
near Aberfeldy, in the parish, an eminence called the Torr or battle-
hill, surrounded with similar lines. We have many stones, either
single or ranged in circles, and burial-grounds of great antiquity ;
but I have discovered nothing remarkable except the stone of
Dunfallandy, which was long the object of much superstitious at-
tention to the natives. The part of it above ground, for it is
much sunk, discovers the grotesque figures of several animals.
   On one side there is some ambitious tracery and fretted work.
The animals are of nondescript appearance and proportions. The
figures are indeed partly decayed or effaced.  The human forms
bear an awkward resemblance to the knave on a pack of cards.
On the other side, are two sitting figures, attired, as seems, in
priestly vestments, with a tall cross between them. Below is an
armed figure on horseback-most probably some military saint or
knight-errant.
   Such stones are frequently met with, as at Abernethy, St Ma-
does, Dunkeld, &c. and are very improperly regarded as Runic
monuments.  They are in fact rude samples of the Popish rage
for sculpture, being always found in connection with the ruins of
chapels.
   There is, at Dunfallandy, another stone still more celebrated,
though presenting nothing to the eye but a rude block, marjing
the bloody eminence from which the locality derives its name-the
scene of a dreadful scene of murder and usurpation.
   A medal, supposed of Trajan, was found in this neighbourhood,
and presented to the late Professor Fergusson of Edinburgh.
   Eminent Characters.-Dr Adam Fergusson was the son of the
Rev. Adam Fergusson, minister of the parish of Logierait. Au-
thentic particulars of his life, from information partly collected in
this place of his nativity, will be found in the Supplement to the
fifth edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. Of course nothing
ran, now be added to the well-known particular of the life of so
eminent a public character.


