
508                      FORFARSHIRE.

in the home manufactory, it is self-evident that the quantity of
cloth produced must have suffered a corresponding diminution.
Here, then, is at once a solution of the partial or non-employment
of hand-loom weavers, and, when employed, their low scale of
remuneration.
   At first sight, it is apt to occur to those unconversant with the
matter, that, from the facts just mentioned, the value of the linens
manufactured at home would be materially enhanced by reason of
the diminished supply. This is not the case. It is well known
that some fabrics, at one time the staple of the place, are no longer
sought for; the demand for others is gradually declining. It would
appear, indeed, that the demand for manufactured goods is falling
off in a ratio corresponding to the amount of yarns exported. The
situation of the manufacturer is thus daily becoming more preca-
rious. It is undeniable, in short, that a change, slow, and it may
be to some imperceptible, but not less sure and irresistible, is gra-
dually shutting out the manufacturer from markets at one time
exclusively his own; the consequences of which (except to the
wealthy capitalist, who is better prepared a little longer to resist
the storm,) cannot be other than a few short years of struggling
and privation, ending in bankruptcy and ruin. But the mill-owner,
it may be said, must at all events be profiting by this additional
market for his yarns. The deterioration in value of this species
of property of late years unhappily disproves the inference. The
principal advantage, in the meantime, arising out of the foreign
demand seems to consist in the ability which it gives to the mill-
owner of keeping his factory going, which he would otherwise have
been totally unable to do, except at an enormous sacrifice. Low
prices can alone enable him to command the custom of the fo-
reigner, who has heavy charges to pay before the article reaches
its destination. To save these, he will doubtless ere long have fac-
tories of his own; and the time is probably not far distant when the
spinning trade will fly our shores as the weaving already in a great
measure has done. The cure for these alarming evils it would be
alien to our purpose to propond; but this much we cannot avoid
saying that any attempt, to administer palliatives to alleviate the
condition of the present chief and most numerous victims of the
revolution to which our staple manufactures are now being sub-
jected, will, however philanthropic the intention, assuredly end in
failure and disappointment. The axe must be laid to the root of
the tree, or the poor weaver my hope in vain for any permanent
relief from his miseries.


