
                          LONGSIDE.		          861

remote era, imbedded in ice, and floated over from the Scandina-
vian coasts, where they are said to abound.
  At least five tracts of peat moss yet remain to supply the fuel,
which is chiefly used; but on these cultivation has of late been
fast encroaching,-an advance, which, with draining, and other im-
provements, must have a favourable effect on the climate.  Im-
bedded in the peat are found many trunks of hardwood trees, es-
pecially oak, the roots of which, remaining in their natural posi-
tion, show that here they must at one time have grown in a con-
genial soil.  So well have some of them been preserved in the
bog, that they have been cut up and formed into articles of furni-
ture, which appear as if made of ebony.
   The soil is in general light, and of no great depth.  It is in
most places bottomed by a ferruginous stratum, called pan, which
is broken up with considerable difficulty, and by its admixture les-
sens for a time the fertility of the land.
   Zoology.-Occasionally a few deer are seen in the Ardlaw wood.
Foxes, badgers, and several other quadrupeds seem to have disap-
peared.  Hares and wild rabbits are numerous and destructive.
Flights of wild geese appear in the spring months, but retire to
the north-east every evening about sunset.  In the low grounds
through which the Ugie flows, wild ducks abound; and the heron
comes from a distance of fifteen or twenty miles to prey upon the
finny natives of the stream.  Lapwings, bitterns, cornrails, star-
lings, and one or two other birds of passage, visit us in their sea-
sons.  Swallows, we regret to perceive, have of late decreased,
while jackdaws have increased, in number.  Grouse and partridges
have been almost exterminated.
   Botany-The plants indigenous to the parish cannot be said to
be either numerous or uncommon.  Among the rarer species are,

<TABLE>
Anemone nemorosa   	Empetrum nigrum		Parnassia palustria
Anthyllis vulneraria	Littorella lacustris	Ranunculus aquatilis
Bartsia Odontites	      Luzula pilosa		---------- hederaceus
Botrychium Lunaria	Menyanthes trifoliata	Soultellaria galericulata
Coridalis claviculata	Montia fontana		Sparganium ramosum
Drosera longifolia	Narthecium ossifragum	trientalis Europea.
------- rotundifolia	Nymphaea alba

   The plantations are chiefly of Scotch fir, spruce, and larch ; but
hardwood might be raised, especially beech, sycamore, alder, and
ash.  The land, however, being mostly arable, little room is left-
for the growth of timber.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Characters.-The Rev. John Skinner, though a native

