
     Statistical Account

to boy's, from 1 L. to 3 L.; a female servant's, 2 L. 10 s or 3 L,
with the produce of a lippie of lintseed sown.  A considera-
ble number of additional servants is necessary in harvest;
man shearer in that season gains 1 L. 10 s. or 2 L.; and a wo-
man, 18 s. or 1 L.  Many farmers have what are called cottars,
to whom they give a cottage and small garden, with some-
times an acre of land, and a cow's grass, for which the cottar
pays 3 L. or 4 L. if he has two acres; and 10 s. more, if his land is
ploughed by the tenant.  But no cottar gets any land except
on condition of working with the farmer for reasonable wages,
whenever required, especially in harvest.  Such a farmer's fa-
mily as that now described, feed chiefly on oat meal, barley
meal, potatoes, milk and cheese.  What animal food they
use is from Michaelmass to Whitsunday and consists of one
bullock salted for winter beef, one hog in spring, and between
20 and 24 quarters of mutton purchased occasionally through
the year.  Though the tenants are all decently clothed, and
their circumstances, upon the whole, tolerably easy and more
plentiful than formerly; yet they are far from being affluent,
or in a situation that raises them above the necessity of ma-
nual labour.  It is somewhat surprizing that there is not in
the parish a tenant, though paying 100 L. or even 300 L. of
yearly rent, that acts merely as a director and over-seer of
his servants; but all of them, so far as health and strength
allow, work proportionably with their own hands The la-
bour, the rents, and all the expences of the tenants, are dou-
ble what they were 25 years ago.  Then a principal man ser-
vant had only 4 L. 10 s. or at most 5 L. an inferior man 2 L. 10 s.
or 3 L. and a female servant 1 L. or 1 L. 5 s.  Since, however,
superior skill and industry now raise a crop of double value,
they, as well as the public, are real gainers by the improve-
ments lately attained.  They have also the unspeakable ad-
vantage of being more secure and independent by the leases


