
4                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

and in Latin writings it generally occurs in the form of Abredonia;
but Buchanan, while he uses the name Abredonia as applicable
both to Old and New Aberdeen, says of the latter "Hanc cite-
riorem invenio vetustis monumentis Abredeam appellatam." *
   The noun "Abar," is stated by Macleod and Dewar in their
Gaelic Dictionary to denote "a marsh, a bog, a fen," and used
as a verb "to join together," hence "a place where two or more
streams meet."  On a reference to the situation of the numerous
places both in Scotland and Wales whose names begin with this
word, it will be seen that they are all (with one or two questionable
exceptions, viz. Abergeley in Flintshire, and Abernyte in Perth-
shire,) situated either, 1st, at the influx of a stream into the sea; or
2d, on the confluence of two streams; or 3d, in the immediate
neighbourhood of a stream; a very few only presenting the anomaly
of being on the sea coast, where there is no river or stream of any
notable magnitude, such as Abermenai in Caernarvonshire, Aber-
dour in Fife, and Aberdour in Aberdeenshire.
   If, then, it can be admitted that the Celtic name of the river was
Dee, or as Mr Thom asserts, + "Deabhadh pronounced Devay," or
some similar word, the origin of the name of the city seems easily
deducible from "Abar" or "Eabar," a marsh or fen, (and it is
worth notice that the common people pronounce the name as if it
were spelt Ebardeen,) compounded with the name of the river, so
that it signifies "the marsh of the Dee." ++
   Topography, &c.-The parish of St Nicholas, in which Aberdeen
is situated, lies on the north side of the river Dee, adjacent to its em-
bouchure, and along the contiguous sea coast.  Its shape is irregularly
quadrangular.  It is bounded on the south side, by the river, along
which it extends for about 1 1/2 mile in a direction nearly east and west.
On the east side, the sea forms its limit for nearly 1 1/4 mile, in a direction
almost due north, to about the point opposite the middle of the
Broad Hill, a small eminence which is situated nearly half way be-
tween the mouth of the Dee and that of the Don.  From this
point there is no natural division of the parish from the adjacent
one of Old Machar; the boundary runs nearly west for about one
mile, and then turns irregularly a little to the south-west for about
the same distance, till it reaches the extreme west corner of the
parish betwem Broadford and Gilcomston, and from thence it turns
nearly south, and extends along the Den-burn, almost three-quarters

<FOOTNOTE>Buchman. Hist. Scot. 1. i. e. 26.        History of Aberdeen, Vol. i. p. 24.
          Armstrong, in his Gaelic Dictionary, gives "a confluence of waters" as the
 meaning of Eabar,-whence Eabardeen would signify "the embouchure of the Dee."


