
     Statistical Account

karel, seaths, cuddies, rock fish (or sea perch), girnet and
flounder.

<FOOTNOTE>

and dog-fish, are put into the creels, which are visited every day, the wilks tak-
en out, and fresh bait of the same kind put in, there being no more occasion for
dog's flesh.
   The other fish caught on the coast of Gigha, are lythe, mackarel, rock-fish,
(or sea perch) seath, and cuddie.  All these frequent sunk rocks near the shore,
and are taken with a stout fishing-rod, hair line, and a hook, mounted with
either a goose or sea gull's white feather, sometimes with a small piece
of aimed white leather.  The cuddie (or young seath), is taken with
small rod and line, having a small hook (or a pin bended in the form of
a hook), mounted with a feather as above.  They are fished from the rocks a-
long the shore.  At certain times of the year, the cuddie is taken with the fish
of the black small wilk, parboiled.  The cuddle is taken either with the fly or
bait all the year.  Every person fishes for himself on the rocks, only the whole
party join in pounding the bait, and casting it into the sea, in order to collect 2
greater number of the fsh.  As loon as the pounded bait is thrown in, these
beautiful small fish make their appearance in great numbers, darting at once
from all directions like the radii of a circle.  Lythe, etc are only killed from
May to November.  Every boat has 4 men, and each boat catches from 60 to
200 seaths in an evening.  Rock fish, or sea perch, are often taken in creels, which
are sunk in deep water near the shore.  There are also flounders and eels, but
they are seldom caught.
   At an average, there are annually about 60 of the inhabitants employed in
the herring fishing, from June till January; all their wages are laid out in put-
chasing clothes and other necessaries for themselves.  Most of them being un-
married, they live all spring with their parents or friends, which hurts the interest
of both parties; as, from the habits they acquire on board, they are not much
inclined to work hard ashore.  This inconvenience is increased, in proportion as
the fishing is successful; for, when there is a good fishing (as they are paid by
the mouth), their wages will be less, and the period of their inactivity prolong-
ed.  For instance, if a vessel makes her cargo in a month or six weeks, she im-
mediately returns home, and the hands are discharged, without any prospect of
more employment that season.  Hence the propriety of giving a small bounty
to the hands employed in killing the herring, according to the number of bar-
rels, and the time in which they were taken; at least, something should be
done to make up the difference of their wages, when the fishing is successful.
And if the same were extended to the cod-fishing, it would be attended with ve-
ry happy effects.  In this case, all those persons might be usefully employed
from the beginning of February, to the next herring fishing in June.


