
312                   DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	The number of families in the parish attending the Established
Church is 551; attending the Secession chapels and the chapel of
the Anabaptists, 164.
	Societies.--A society is established in Sanquhar for Bible, Mis-
sionary, and other religious purposes. Its annual income is about
L. 30,--one-balf of which is collected at church on a day previous-
ly intimated, and the other half is contributed by the members of
the society.
	Education.--The total number of schools in the parish is eight:
of these, one is parochial, one is endowed, and the other six are
unendowed. They are attended by about 320 scholars. Gram-
mar, geography, book-keeping, Latin, Greek, and French are
taught in several of them. The wages per quarter for each scho-
lar vary from 2s. to 4s., according to the number of branches
which are taught. The parochial teacher, by the liberality of the
heritors, has much more than the legal accommodation, in regard
to house-room, having six apartments with cellars. He has also
two spacious school-rooms, airy alid well-lighted. His salary is the
maximum, beino, fully L. 34; and the fees actually paid to him may
amount to L. 15 per annum. He has besides, the interest of
L. 100, mortified by the late Rev David Martin, who was a native
of this parish, and a clergyman in the church of England. The
number of persons above fifteen who cannot read is 2. The num-
ber under fifteen who cannot write is 396, and above fifteen 350.
In some parts of the parish, the children are so distant from any of
the public schools, that they are prevented from attending. In
these circumstances, a teacher is generally engaged by one or a few
families residing near each other, and not unfrequently one or other
of the parents assumes this office, when unable to make any better
provision for their children.
	Libraries.--In the town of Sanquhar, there is a subscription
library, consisting of books, for the most part, of useful knowledge.
It was commenced in 1800, and contains 1460 volumes. The
number of members is 178. The annual payment of each is 4s.
and the sum paid on admission 1Os. 6d. So many have given in-
timation of having demitted to read for the present, probably on
account of the pressure of the times--that not more than L. 26
may be considered as the amount of the whole sum paid during the
year. At Wanlockhead there is also a subscription library. It
was commenced in 1756. The number of members is 105, who
can now number 1300 volumes, which in general are well chosen.

