
156                        ARGYLESHIRE.

Corran Ferry.  By these, cattle and sheep are driven to the
southern markets.  The steam communication is, however, chiefly
adopted by travellers of all descriptions.  By the Glasgow steam-
ers, to which access is had at Tobermory and the point of Ara-
saig, some cattle and sheep, and great quantities of eggs, are sent
to the south, and the greater part of the oatmeal, groceries, hard
and stone-wares, and other manufactures for the use of the parish
imported.
   Harbours.-Notwithstanding the rugged aspect of the coast,
there are several good harbours.  The Bay of Glenmore, on the
south of Ardnamurchan, about half a mile west from the first
narrows or group of islands in Loch Sunart, affords excellent an-
chorage, and, were it noted in charts, would prove of much im-
portance to vessels unable to beat into Tobermory in a gale, as,
in every respect, a better resource than that often resorted to, of
running out to sea.
   The small harbour of Kilchoan, about five or six miles west on
the same coast, is of great utility, being the principal point of
communication with Tobermory, and is occasionally the resort of
craft conveying the cattle of some western islands to the main
land.  A pier, built on the ledge of rock forming its southern
wing, and a perch on a rock, only visible at low water, at its mouth,
would not only improve this harbour, so as to render it in a ten-
fold degree more locally useful, but would confer a public benefit.
Within not many years, a Prussian ship and an English brig,
whose valuable cargoes were totally lost, of an united ionnage
amounting to 700 tons, ran ashore there and were wrecked; but
had the erection recommended taken place, they would have been
preserved undamaged.
   At Ardtoe, on the north coast of Ardnamurchan, there is a
safe small bay, which one of the piers already alluded to was
meant to improve.
   At Island Shona, in the mouth of Lochmoidart, there is a se-
cure and excellent anchorage, and many creeks for fishing-boats,
which are resorted to in the cod-fishing season by several crews
from the southern Highlands.
   In Loch na Keaull, in Arasaig, there is a good anchorage,
though not easily accessible even to craft of moderate draught of
water, in consequence of numerous shoals and sunk rocks.  It is,
however, a good deal.  frequented by craft from the islands, and
sloops conveying to market the products of the country; the


