
			URQUHART AND GLENMOUISTON.                     43

	at Invermoriston, Balmacaan, Polmailly, Kilmore, Lakefield, and
	Corrymony, show that the soil and climate are adapted for the
	growth of the finest larches, planes, sycamores, beeches, walnuts,
	and all sorts of fruit trees. In Ruisky are to be seen the remnants
	of the larger sized birch trees, which are now become scarce in the
	country, many of the trunks being 5 or 6, and a few even. 8 or 9
	feet in circumference. Their wrinkled ancl hoary branches sup-
	port great quantities of parasitic mosses and lichens, and the green
	sward around them abounds in an unusual variety of wood and
	mdadow plants; but the moors scarcely attain a sufficient elevation
	for the support of the truly Alpine flora. Even Mealfaurvonie,
	notwithstanding its great height, hardly shows any Alpine plants,
	except Saxifraga aizoides, Hieracium alpinum, and Alchemilla al-
	pina. Among the rarer small plants of the parish may be enumerat-
	ed Adoxa moschatellina, Agrimonia Eupatorium, Betula nana, Cir-
	cea Lutetiana et alpina, Epilobium angustifolium, Geranium luci-
	dum, Habenaria viridis, albida et bifolia, Paris quadrifolia, Pyrola
	media, minor, et secunda, Saxifraga hypnoides, Vaccinium oxycoc-
	cos? Arbutus alpina. The bogs and peat mosses abound in trunks
	and roots of oaks and fir trees, greater in size than are now seen
	in the native forests, and when these cannot be dug out in large
	pieces, they are split up for fire wood.
	   Animals.-The only wild animals now found in this district are,
	the fox, badger, polecat, weasel, and wild-cat. Tradition, and
	some faint notices in old chronicles, assert that the beaver as well
	as the wolf inhabited the sides of Loch Ness. The capercaiilie
	or cock of the wood, (Urogallus vulgaris,) was seen in, Glenmoris-
	ton, and the neighbouring hills of Strathglass, about seventy years
	ago, but is now quite extinct. Red-deer, roe, black andred grouse,
	ptarmigan, with brown and white or Alpine hares, still abound on
	all the dstates in the district. Goats were formerly numerous,'but
	they have of late been greatly discountenanced; as injurious to the
	woods and plantations.

                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	    Antiquities.-The state of property, and the history of this dis-
	triet in ancient times, would be utterly unknown, but for the few.
	gleams of light thrown on them, by the annals of the Castle of Ur-
	quhart, one of the chain of fortresses (several: Of them royal)
	which, from the earliest times, stretehed across the Great Glen
	from Inverness to Inverlochy, and secured the country from foreign
	invasion, and the excess of civil discord. In the present sketch,


