
728                        LANARKSHIRE.

tensive salmon-fisberies appear to have been carried on in the
Avon, at Broomhill and Patrickholme.  Very few are now caught
in any of the waters above Glasgow.  For this deficiency in mo-
dern and recent times, the following reasons may be assigned,
namely,-the deepening of the bed of the Clyde in order to im-
prove the navigation of the river, and the great increase of fisheries
below Glasgow; manufacturing machinery, and chemical and dye-
works erected on the banks of the river; the lime used in agricul-
ture insensibly carried into the bed of the Clyde, which forms the
trough or common sewer of the whole country; par and fry-fish-
ing; the depredations of the porpus, grampus, and other destruc-
tive sea fisbes, particularly the grampus, which comes up nearly
as far as the salt water reaches almost every tide at flood, during
certain seasons, in pursuit of salmon, of whieh it devours great
numbers; steam-vessels; and, in so far as this part of the country
is more especially concerned, the obstructions and obstacles to be
encountered at the dam of Blantyre works, and the dam at Mill-
heugb mill on the Avon.  Great depredations used to be commit-
ted in this part of the country by spearing the salmon at night,
during the spawning season.  It is believed that from the vigilance
of the keepers employed by the Duke of Hamilton and others,
this offence has of late years been considerably checked.  There
is a cruive connected with the dam of Clydesmiln, where a few
salmon are occasionally caught.  It seems a pretty well ascertain-
ed fact, that wherever the salmon has, firorn any cause, disappear-
ed from our rivers, the par is no longer to be fund,-a circum-
stance which certainly gives strength to the idea, that the latter
(the Par) is the young of the former.
   The parish cannot be said to have any plants but what are com-
mon to this part of Scotland.  The woods are chiefly confined to
the banks of the rivers and burns, the central parts of the parish
being bare and unshdltered.  On the banks of the Clyde and Avon,
and the sides of the rivulets, plantations, and fringes of natural
wood, of some extent, and of great beauty, abound.  They con-
sist, chiefly of oak, asb, birch, elm, alder, beeeb,-holly, gean or
wild cherry, sallows, crab trees, and wild plums of various sorts,
intermixed with hazel elder and other shrubs.  At one time,
plantations of Scotch fir abounded in the parish, and especially in
that part of it called Machan Muir.  Of late years these old belts
have all been cut down, or nearly so, without any attempt being
made to supply their place; and thus mamy farms have been left


