
46                      BUTESHIRE

   The four last were not known to exist in the island till a few
years ago, they were discovered by a young gentlemen be-
longing to the parish. They are extremely rare, so much so, that
the only other places where they are known to exist in Britain, are
the Mull of Galloway, and the Head of Houth in Ireland. The
Lathyrus sylvestris is very seldom found in a wild state in Scot-
land.
   The forest which covered the island so late as the time of Dean
Donald Munro, who published his four through the Hebrides in
the year 1567, have almost entirely dissapeared ; and no attempt
has as yet been made to replace them. The only spot of the pa-
rish that has been planted is a large tumulus on the farm of She-
dog. The trees are very healthy, and considering the small body
there is of them, and the exposed situation in which they stand,
thrive remarkably well. Were parts of the hill-sides covered with
plantations, an clumps of trees interspersed through the low-
lands, espescially along the banks of the rivers and streamlets, it
would relieve the country of the bleak and naked aspect that it now
presents, and increase both the beauty and the value of the property
   Zoology.--The destruction oft he forests has proved fatal to all
animals of prey, if such at any time existed in the island, and
threatens to prove equally so to those of the chase. Foxes,
badgers, polecats, weasels, &c. which are common in the adjacent
counties of Aye and Argyle, are here unknown. The red-deer,
said to have been once very abundant in the parish, are now only,
and but rarely, to be met with in the wild and solitary heights of
Glenespig, Gleniorsa, and Glenfas. Hares are pretty numerous;
had rabbits should among the downs on the sea-shore, and the
rocky heights of the interior.
   The native breed of horses, cattle, and sheep, has entirely dis-
appeared within the last twenty years, and a new and much improved
one been introduced in its stead. This change has been effected
partly by importution, and partly by crossing, but chiefly by the
latter mode.
   The native breed of horses, supposed to have in it a dash of
Spanish blood, was dimunitive, but remarkably sure-footed, hardly,
and tractable. That at present used, approximates nearer in size
and symmetry to the Ayshire breed; which being heavier is bet-
ter adapted for the purposes of agriculture.
   The native breed of sheep was small, white faced, and horn-
less ; seldom weighing more than a stone, or a stone and a half;


