

                         CARRIDEN.                       57

next to these were January 29th, November 23d, December 23d
and 27th, the mercury standing at 32&deg;. The lowest range of the
barometer was on December 1st, when it showed 28.08, the wind
being south- West, and the thermometer 44&deg; the highest tange
was on December 23d, being 31.01, when the wind blow from
the west, and the thermometer stood at 32&deg;. The observations to
which the foregoing tables and statements refer, it may be proper
to add, were taken about a mile from the coast, at a slight elevation
above the sea.
   The climate is in general dry, pleasant, and healthful, though
variable.
   Hydrography.-The Frith of Forth bounds the parish on the
north, to the extent of about three miles in a straight line, the
breadth at high water averaging about four miles, with an average
depth of 9 1/2 fathoms in the channel. The water is never very
transparent, and when in a state of commotion, it is turbid and mud-
dy, of a lightish brown tinge, from the quantity of alluvial matter
which it holds in solution. Its saltness is considerably diluted by
the fresh current descending from above, but is nevertheless of
quality sufficient to furnish a productive material for the manufac-
ture of excellent salt.
   There are two small streams that traverse the parish, both of
very insignificant dimensions, viz. Blackness burn, which rises in
the Irongath hills, and after running eastward, joins the Forth
on the east side of the castle of Blackness, where it separates the
parish from Abercorn; and Carriden burn, which passes into the
Frith on the west side of Carriden House, to the situation of which
it adds considerable attractions by the natural beauty of its banks,
having formerly served as an outlet to a small loch on the estate
of Grange, that has been drained and is now under cultivation.
   Geology and Mineralogy-The general characteristic of the mi-
neral structure is of the coal formation. Passing along the coast
from the westward, we fall in with trap or hard whinstone at Cow-
denhill, Bridgeness, and Cuffabouts. A little farther to the east,
between the old manse and Burnfoot, there is a, bed of light grey
sandstone, which dips to the south-west with a declination of 11.
About a quarter of a mile onward, shale and indurated clay, with
some bands of calcareous sandstone, appear at the surface within
the sea mark, the dip continuing to the southwest. A dislocation
in the strata appears to have taken place about a mile farther east
ward, the rock consisting of clay sandstone in thin layers, and lying



