
    357              SALEN.

toes, and muchwaste land has been brought into a state of culti-
vation by the Tob ermory settlers, since the formation of the vil-
tage. There are thriving pla . ntations on the estates of Ilugh
M'Lean, Esq. of Coll, and' Mr . Caldwell of Misbnisb in, the
immediate-neighbourhood of the village.
          PART OF THE PARISH OF SALEN.
That part of the united parish of Kilninian and Kilmore which
was cut off to be annexed to the government parish of Salen, con-
tains a population of about 300 souls, and is bounded nearly as fol-
iows, by the Saleii burn as far as the bridge on the new line Of
road leading to Knock; and an imaginary'line drawn from the said
bridge to the head of Lnch-nan-gaul, separates Salen from Kil-
iiinian and Kilmore; and then taking Salen for the centre, and
with 4 radius of four miles, describing a segment of a circle from
Ardnacross, on the Sound of Mull, to Kellan Mill, on Loch-nan-
gaul, we have the extent of that part of the united parish of Kil-
ninian and Kilmore, which, quoad spiritualia, is attached to, and
forms a part of, this Government parish of Salen.
The Bay of Aros is bv no means deficient in beauty, though
of a wild character; and the valley, like the bay, derives an in-
terest from its castle, pitched in a very picturesque manner on
the summit of a rocky hill, and said to have been . built by Mac-
Donald, Lord of the Isles, who lived and kept court there. It
bears the evident traces of being a place of strength, built upon
a steep rock towards the sea, and looks as if it bad been secured
on the land side bv a moat and drawbridge. On the rising
ground, and overlooking the bay, is the house of Mr Stewart of
Acliadasbenaig.

Having given, seriatim, detailed accounts of the three parishes,
and part of a fourth, the observations and remarks followingapply
to the whole.
burning up the population of each parish, from a private census taken in
1837, there appears in Kilninian and Kilmore,                                  1920
         Ulva,                                                                 1000
         Tobermory,                                                            1520
         Part of Salon,                                                         300
         Total souls,
                                                                             ------
                                                                               4740
                                                                               2590
According to Dr Webster's abcount, the population in 1755, was only          ------

                    Making since then an increase of                           2150

at the period when the last Statistical Account was foamed, viz. 1792-3,      -----
a census then taken, the population amounted to                                3281


