
                           PARISH OF OXNAM.

        PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE, AND TEVIOTDALE.

                   THE REV. JAMES WIGHT, MINISTER.


     I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--The name of this parish was, for several centuries,
written Oxenham, as appears from the chartularies and evidence
from other sources. It was but recently changed to Oxnam, this
being simply a popular abbreviation of the former name. The
words oxen and ham, or hamlet, serve when combined to indicate
its origin.  For it may be inferred, that the chief village ob-
tained its distinctive appellation, principally because it abounded
with oxen, and partly also because it afforded protection to nume-
rous herds of cattle, during the many hostile and predatory incur-
sions of the southern borderers. And the name thus acquired by
the village, so long held in repute for the advantages of its situa-
tion and the number of its inhabitants, was subsequently transfer-
red to the parish at large. It is clear that the names of particu-
lar animals had, in process of time, become so completely identi-
fied with, as at length to be employed to designate, various places
here, such as Scotfield, Swinside, and Hyndhope; and that seve-
ral others too--of which Mossburnford and Bloodylaws are instan-
ces--bear names, either descriptive of certain remarkable localities
that strike the view, or else expressive of some remote but memo-
rable events of which they once formed the scene.  These facts tend
accordingly to corroborate the above statement.
     Extent and Boundaries.--The utmost length of this parish is
nearly 10 miles; its greatest breadth about 5 miles; and it con-
tains 33 square miles.  It is bounded on the north by the parish
of Jedburgh; on the east by Hownam; on the south by Jedburgh
and the county of Northumberland; and on the west by Jedburgh
and Southdean.  Its area may be described as an irregular oblong
figure.

     Topographical Appearances.--It may not be improper to ob-
serve, that the tops of the highest hills command a most magnifi-


