
                          CULSAMOND.                      727

gularly given by Mr Forbes of Boyndlie, as his probable collection
if he was attending the church (for he is an Episcopalian), L. 61,
18s. 8 1/2s. ; the average interest of L. 467 Sterling, lodged in the
hands of the Banking Company in Aberdeen, L. 12, 4s. 1d.; the
average interest of L. 613, 18s. 4d. bank three per cent. annui-
ties (Major Phillips's legacy), L. 17, 15s. 8d.; average amount
of mortcloth money and penalties, L. 6, 5s.; L. total, L. 98, 3s. 5 1/2d.
That sum has been divided in proportions suitable, as far as
can be judged, to their respective necessities, among 87 poor per-
sons, 69 of whom were on the ordinary and permanent poor's roll,
and who have 18 dependents on them; while other 18 are only
occasionally supplied with aid.  It must be adverted to, that almost
all are able to do something for themselves by means of their per-
sonal industry, and that there is a silent active spirit of charity
abroad in the parish, which contributes to eke out a subsistence to
the necessitous.  There is also a very considerable relief afforded
to many poor families by the distribution from the proprietor's gir-
nal at New Pitsligo of seventy-two bolls of meal, at the rate of one-
half peck per week to each individual.  This charity, furnished
by the liberality of Sir John S. Forbes and his ancestors, is how-
ever, confined to indigent and decayed feuars of that village.
   Fairs, Inns, Alehouses, &c.-Four cattle-markets are annually
held at New Pitsligo, and each of these uniformly takes place in
the months of March, May, August, and September.  A fort-
nightly corn-market has been recently established there.  There
are two respectable inns and six alehouses in New Pitsligo.

                         PARISH OF CULSAMOND.

                PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                       THE REV. F. ELLIS, MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries and Extent.-On the north-east, north, and north-
west, this parish is bounded by those of Auchterless, Fargue
and Drumblade; on the west, and south-west by Insch; on the
south, by Oyne; and on the cast by Rava.  its extent from
north to south is about 4 1/2 miles; from west to east about 3


