
     Statistical Account

   Our seed time is rather late in general.  In the last week of
March, or first of April, the oats are for the most part sown;
though sometimes sown considerably later.  Potatoes are

<FOOTNOTE>

   4thly, That each plant should be carefully boxed up with the hoe, if not
drilled, or otherwise with the plough; as in that case, it becomes greatly
more productive.  For every time the earth is thrown up, the plant strikes
out new fibres: and a succession of crop may thus be obtained.  The lowest
tire may be ripe and ready for eating, while the highest are scarcely formed.
But where this is attempted, as it was often by Mr Graham, the plants
ought to be 3 feet distant from each other, in all directions.
   5thly, It is allowed that if the ground be lea or grass, the dung ought in
that case, to be spread in harvest preceding; or at least, early in the spring;
that it may in some measure be incorporated with the soil; before it be
ploughed.  Even in stubble it is deemed advantageous.
   6thly, It is generally allowed that lime is very unfavourable for the cultiva-
tion of potatoes.  It is even said, that the bad effect of it are experienced for
10 or 20 years.  One of these is, that the crop of potatoes though large, is
almost always seabbed or soul.
   7thly, The seed is generally cut in pretty large sets and kept a week or
two if possible before it be set.  This is said to be a great advantage, par-
ticularly in wet grounds.  It is said to make the potatoe spring sooner, and
to prevert the seed from rotting.  For being shrivelled and dryed, and co-
vered with a kind of tough find, it is more capable of resisting tire moisture,
and at the same time, has an equal tendency to vegetate quickly.
   8thly, A most productive crop may be raised of early potatoes before the
middle of July.  And either turnips, greens, or grass-seeds may be raised
as a second crop.  Yet the potatoes may yield of clear profit per acre, from
L 10 to 12.
   9thly, In gardens and small plots, the stocks of greens and cabbage, are one
of the best manures for potatoes If dug in drills, and the stocks be laid in
regularly, they both enrich the ground, and keep the soil open; and thereby
give room for the shoots to spread.
Lastly, Great crops have been raised out of the young shoots, in place of
sets.


