
     of Kippen.

be found uniformly lying in the direction of the current.
But the roots are generally found standing in the clay; the
trunks separated from them a little above the ground, lying
in all directions; and sometimes, on the oaks particularly, the
marks of an ax or hatchet have been traced.  The testimony
of several historians of credit, as well as other authentic mo-
numents, lead us to a discovery of the authors of this great
catastrophe.  When the Romans pushed their conquests into
Britain, our ancestors, the Britons and Caledonians, were for-
ced by the victorious legions to retire to their hills, or secure
themselves in those extensive forests, with which the island
then abounded.  From these strong holds they sallied forth as
opportunity offered, and by their frequent incursions, not
only annoyed the armies of their conquerors, but enriched
themselves with booty.  From the speech of Galgacus, given
by Tacitus in his life of Agricola, it appears that the Romans
had been much employed in cutting down forests and draining
morasses, with a view to secure themselves against such pre-
datory attacks from the natives.  But to put an effectual stop
to these depredations, in the last expedition of the Emperor
Severus, general orders were issued to cut down all the forests
throughout this part of the island.  This service was per-
formed by the Roman legions, assisted by those natives whom
they had been able to subjugate.  Herodian* concisely mentions
this fact.  Dion Cassius+, whose account is more particular,

     VOL. XVIII. S s

<FOOTNOTE>

*Lib. III.c.48.
+Xiphilin. ex Dione, lib. 39.  The passage relative to this subject in the
abridger of Dion, is curious and interesting.  "Quam Severus, quum vellet om-
nem in suam potestatem redigere, ingressus est in Caledoniam, eamque dum
pertiansiret, habuit maxima negotia, quod sylvas cæderet, et loca alta perfo-
deret, quodque paludes obrueret aggere, et pontes in flumimbus faceret.
Nullum enim prælium gessit, neque copias hostium instruct as vidit; a quibus


