
                       SOUTH KNAPDALE.                        278

season, some side schools taught by young men who are both paid
and maintained by the parents of such children as may attend
them.  At present, there are about 300 attending the different
schools.  The branches taught are, English and Gaelic, reading,
writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping.  At two of the schools,
Latin, geography, and navigation are taught.  At all the schools
the Scriptures are daily read, and the children are taught to trans-
late portion of them from Gaelic to English, and vice versa.
They are also taught the Shorter Catechism.
   As the maximum salary is allowed and divided among the four
parochial teachers, the heritors do not consider themselves bound
to provide either dwelling-house or school-house for any of them.
Two of the teachers have no accommodation whatever.  Of the
other two, one has a school-house ; and for his dwelling-house
and cow's grass, and small patch of ground which yields him po-
tatoes and meal for his family, and fodder for his cow, he pays a
moderate rent.  The other has a schoolhouse ; but the dwelling-
house he occupies he was obliged to build at his own expense.
   The teacher employed by the General Assembly of Committee
has a good dwelling-house, school-house, croft, and cow's grass,
barn and byre provided for him by Mrs Campbell of Ormsary,-
a lady who pays the greatest attention to the temporal and spiri-
tual wants of the poor.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on the
roll is about 20.  This is exclusive of those residing in the district
of the parish annexed quoad saera to Lochgilphead.  The annual
amount of contributions for their relief is from L. 20 to L. 25
Sterling, arising from collections in the church, and-fines for de-
linquencies.  This sum, minus salaries for session, presbytery, and
synod clearks, is divided among the poor twice a year.  One dis-
tribution is made annually after the communion, and the other
about the beginning of January.  The funeral expenses of the
poor are paid out of this fund ; occasional aid is afforded to such as
from bad health or any other misfortune may stand in need of re-
lief, though they are not on the roll. From the failure of the po-
tato crop in 1837, and scarcity of 1839, the heritors voluntarily
contributed in each of these years L. 25 for the relief of the poor.
   Road.-The road from Daill, the north-eastern extremity of
the parish, to Barnellan, on the south, is excellent, and always
kept in the best possible state of repair.  The road for the distance
of ten or tweive miles is called the Lliabh Gaoil road, from its
   ARGYLE.                                             8


