
   356             ARGYLESHIRE.

Bloody Bay, so named from-a great sea fight about the year 14W,
betwixt the then two owerful contending'factions in the isle, in
which the adherents of John were routed with great loss by his
brother. Angiis and his followers.
The population of this parish in 1837, was 1520, and they all
belong to the Established Church, with the exception of thirteen
individuals connected with the Anabaptist. denomination, who have
had a preacher stationed in Tobermory for the last twenty years.
There are also twelve Roman Catholics, and one IndependenL,
There are in the village two writers, one banker,'tliree surgeons,
two agents for insurance offices, one distiller, thirteen grocers, of
which five are spirit-dealers, ten woollen and linen drapers, four mer .
ebants and general dealers, one nursery and seedsman, seven inn-
keepersg two joiners and cabinet-makers, four tailors, five boot and
shoemakers, two bakers, besides smiths, plasterers, and masons.
The great majority of the population consist of the poor and
working-classes. The original settlers in the village were pretty
comfortable, as they possessed as much land, at a very low rent,
as was sufbcient to maintain their families for the whole year, if
properly cultivated but, owing to some late arrangements, and
the increase of population, the original allotments have been sub-
divided, so that very few of the villagers at present can procure
from their lands a subsistence for their families, beyond eight or
nine months of the year. The population are in general of an
industrious disposition ; but the want of regular employment is
too favourable for indulging in indoletit habits, and to this may
be ascribed much of the misery to which they are often, subject.
As they cannot get employment at home, many of the your,
people go to the south country, and a, few of them are engaged in
the herring fisherry.
Notwithstanding the different descriptions of character that
take up their residence in the village, when turned out of their te-
nements in other parts of the country, it is very seldom that any
gross, crimes are committed; and as an evidence of this, it may he
mentioned, that although there is a lock-tip-house or jail in To-
bertpory, yet none of the inhabitants of the parish have been con-
find there for the last four years, and, the upper flat of that jail is
occupied by the school of industry before noticed.
There is a cable proportion of arable land in the parish,
which in a general yields a tolerably good crop of oats and pota.


