
			DUMFRIES.                               27

of the poor's-house, who undertook to provide for the whole poor
resident in the town, while the session, with the remaining third, were
to support the landward paupers. In point of fact, however, it is
believed that the directors never fully implemented their part of
the compact, and that the session have always been burdened
with a portion of the town's poor. On these grounds, the agree-
ment was lately declared null.
	The parish is divided into forty-one districts, to each of which
a visitor is appointed, to inquire into, and supply the wants of the
poor from his private purse; advancing money, which is repaid at
the end of the month by a bnard of control, nominated by the ma-
gistrates, heritors, and session. How this system may work is yet
uncertain; but it is much to be feared it must give place to a legal
assessment.
	Prisons.--The number of prisoners, (exclusive of debtors,) com-
mitted to the county jail during the last year, amounts to 45.
	Inns,&c.--The three principal inns in Dumfries are,--the King's
Arms, the George, and the Commercial Inn. Upon a moderate
average, no fewer than 168 individuals annually have licences
granted them to sell ale and spirits, and the effect upon the morals
of the population is truly deplorable.
	Fuel.--The fuel used in the parish consists of coals from San-
quhar, in this county, and from Maryport and Whitehaven in Cum-
berland, and peats from Lochar Moss. As pests can be procured in
smaller quantities than coals, they are generally used by the poorer
classes, although in the end coals are found to be cheaper. The
Maryport coal sells at one shilling a measure; the measure being
equal to 28 1/4 gallons. The best Sanquhar coal sells at sixpence
per measure, or L. 1, 5s. for a waggon load. An inferior descrip-
tion of Sanquhar coal sells at fourpence per measure, or L. I for
a waggon load.

		VI.-MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The most remarkable features of difference betwixt the state of
the parish at the period when the last Statistical Account was drawn
tp, and its state at the present time, seem to be the general en-
largement of the town, and its improvement in appearance, as well
as in trade; the increased facility of navigation in the Nith, the
great improvement which has taken place in husbandry throughout
the parish, and the advance of knowledge amongst the lower ranks
of society. Much has been done in reclaiming waste land from


