
                          NEWTYLE.                          559

There is a peat-moss in the south of the parish, which formerly
lay in a swampy state, but is now in process of drainage.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Antiquities.-Local names, such as Chesterpark, probably from
castra, seem to designate posts or stations of Roman troops, during
their invasion of the country. There is a field so called on the
high ground, near the village of Hill of Keillor. Tradition points
out, in the north-west of the parish, Grahame's Knowe, and
King's Well, marking, it is said, the route of the usurper Mac-
beth from his fortress on Dunsinane Hill northwards, before the
Th`nd of Fife, and countenancing the legend respecting the mo-
numental remains within the policies of Belmont Castle, in the
parish of Meigle. Near Auchtertyre, a small village in the parish,
there is a well, commonly called the Crew Well, and adjoining it,
there are the evident remains of a camp, of square form, and of
no great dimensions. In the Old Statistical Account, this ,en-
campment is said to have been one of Montrose's army, during
the civil wars. In a recent History of the Highlands and High-
land Clans, notice is taken of the Earl of Crawford and his fol-
lowers from Fife, having been in arms in the parish, which makes it
questionable whether the entrenchment may not have been one of
that body of troops. To the south of Auchtertyre, there was dis-
covered, within the last forty years, one of those artificial subter-
ranean caverns, supposed of Pictish construction.
	The Castle of Hatton, (Halltoun), now in ruins, was built by
Lawrence Lord Oliphant, 1575. It is finely situated on the north-
west base of the Hill of Hatton, in the opening of the Glack,
which it commands, and affords a very extensive view of the
strath. It appears to have been a fortified residence of very sub-
stantial workmanship. A short distance onwards, to the south,
there is said to have been a castle, (Baleraig), scarcely any traces
of which now rdmain. About its site, some urns in a broken
state were turned up by the plough, not many years ago. At a
short distance to the west of the village of Hill of Keillor, there
is a tumulus with a large standing-stone in it, evidently of great
antiquity, but concerning which tradition is silent. The stone
has rude hieroglyphics on it.
	In a field below the Kirkton, there are two mounds of artificial
structure, used probably as archery butts,-monuments of olden
times. One of these has of late been considerably impaired.
	FORFAR.			      O O


