
					KILLIN.                   1077

	in breadth, it varies from 5 to 9 miles.  It comprehends about
	160 square  miles.
	  The figure or shape of the parish is very irregular, and several
	isolated portions of the parishes of Kenmore and Weem intersect
	it on Loch Tayside and in Glenlochay, so that though the dis-
	tance between the extreme points be as above, the greatest length
	of the parish of Killin, quoad civilia, may be reckoned about 24
	miles.  It is bounded on the east by the parish of Kenmure; on
	the south, by Comrie and Balquhidder ; on the west, by Arrochar
	and Glenorechay; and, on the north, by Glenlyon, which forms
	part of the old parish of Fortingall.
	   Topographical Appearances.-Tbe surface of the parish is ir-
	regular, presenting a succession of mountain ranges, and fertile
	glens and valleys.  The highest mountain is Benmore, situat-
	ed in Glendochart, about ten miles from the village of Killin.
	It rises, in a majestic conical form, to the height of 3900 feet
	above the level of the sea, and presents an object of the most at-
	tractive interest to the eye of the traveller.  The mountain-range,
	from Benmore to the head of Lochlomond, is unquestionably one
	of the most magnificent in the Highlands, and the admirer of
	Grampian scenery will rarely find his taste so highly gratified,
	and his toil so amply repaid, as by travelling up Glenfalloch on a
	summer evening, and from the summit of the road which passes
	through that most romantic of Highland glens, gazing on the
	grand chain of mountains which extend, as in a continuous line,
	from Benmore to Benlomond.  Another range of exceeding inte-
	rest and grandeur is that of Craig-Chailleach (old wives' craig),
	in the immediate neighbourbood of Killin, rising abruptly (and
	richly wooded more than halfway up) from the noble plain of
	Finlarig, at the head of Loch Tay, and stretching westward into
	Glenlochay.  It forms the grandest by far of all the objects which
	combine to render the scenery of Killin so rich in tbe variety of
	its parts, and so splendid in its general aspect.  The turretted
	peaks of this mountain-range may be seen to great advantage by
	moonlight from any spot near the church ; and the tourist who is
	fortunate enough to obtain this view, will confess that it is grand
	beyond expression.
	  The hills, though rising to a great height, are, generally speak-
	ing, clothed with verdure to their summits.  The principal val-
	leys are, Glendochart, stretching westward from Killin about ten



