
                         PARISH OF MONYMUSK.

            PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                 THE REV. ROBERT FORBES, MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The parish of Monymusk is thought to have been so
named from two Gaelic words monaugh, high or hilly, and mousick,
which signifies low and marshy ground ; and this conjecture would
seem to be justified by the appearance of its surface.  It extends
about seven miles in length from east to west, its greatest breadth
from four to five.  In some places it is much narrower,-which
makes it of very irregular figure, so as to contain only about twenty
square miles.
   Extent, &c.-It is bounded on the east and south, by the,
parishes of Kemnay and Cluny; on the west, by the parish of
Tough; and on the north-west and north, by the parishes of
Keig, Oyne, and Chapel of Garioch.  It is separated from the
parish of Tough on the west, and partly bounded an the north, by
hills of various, and some of theme of considerable, though not very
remarkable, height,-Cairnwilliam, which is the highest, being
about 1400 feet above the level of the sea.
   River.-The river Don which rises in ther mountains of Cor-
garff, and, after an easterly and winding course of about sixty miles,
falls into the sea at Old Aberdeen, runs through the parish, and
divides it into two unequal parts, leaving about two-thirds on the
south, and one-third on the north of its banks.  Its mean breadth
within the parish may be about 35 yards, and depth 2 feet; ve-
locity about 1 1/2 mile per hour.
   Rocks.-The rocks of which the hills are composed are chiefly
granite, of which there is abundance of excellent quality through-
out the parish, many large blocks of which were quarried some
years ago by a company in Aberdeen, and removed to London for
the colonnade of the new market-place in Covent Garden.
   In the last Account of this parish, it is stated that an iron mine
had been discovered, many years ago, in a hill about a mile distant
from the church to the northwest, the ore of which had been found


