
      332                             PERTHSHIRE.

      Patterson is their minister-number, young and old, 138-sti-
      pend promised, L. 60.  We give the following statement of the
      district of Ardoch, as furnished to us readily by its present mi-
      nister, Mr Laird.

      <TABLE>

      Population.-In Muthil parish, 949    Belonging to the Established Church, 1401
                  In Dunblane,      601                     United Secession,    159
                  In Blackford,      35                     Episcop`lians,        12
                                   ----                     Original Seceders,     6
                                   1585                     Relief,                6
                                                            Bereans,               1
      For the care of these 1401 people, we regret to say, that
      the minister has only a bond from the managers of the church
      for L. 80, with a free house or manse and garden, and keep for a
      cow; and we regret, also, that the church cannot contain the
      people.
         The people have done much for their church and for their mi-
      nister; but yet they require some aid to enlarge their church,
      and some endowment for the better support of their minister; and
      we trust that both will soon be granted them.
         Besides a prosperous church, they have also a prosperous school.
      A hundred children are well instructed there, in the common
      branches of learning.  The schoolmaster's income arises altogether
      from the school fees, which doubtless should be otherwise. An-
      other school, where a very few children are taught, is about a
      mile to the north of the village, and has attatebed to it L. 2 a year
      of endowment, left by the Rev.  William Hally, minister of Muthill.
      There are also two unendovdd schools in the quarter of Dunblane.
         The church is conveniently placed for the district, and has at-
      tached to it a space of country of nearly seventy square miles.
      Number of sittings in the church 600 ; collections annually, L. 40.
      Average number of births, 78.
         Braco village is rapidly enlarging in its buildings, and in its
      population.  At present it has 180 families, and a population of 384.
      For their moral improvement there is a well-selected library, kept
      up by subscription. There are also in it two cattle-markets during
      the year; and it has also its four public-houses.

                         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
         During the last forty years, the population of the parish has
      increased from 2948 to 3421: its schools have increased from three
      to ten; and its cultivated fields have increased to double or treble
      their number. Of Presbyterian Dissenters, the number has been
      lessened from 160 to 9, and of Roman Catholics from 42 to 2.
      Other changes have not been so conducive to its well being and


