
                        4  INVERURY.                           685

phinstone, though locally situated in the parish of Kintore,) is (in
1841) fully 100.
   There are twenty fairs for cattle, horses, sheep, and grain, held
annually in the burgb, the revenue from which, as they are well
frequented, is considerable, perhaps L.60 a year.
   Branches of the Old Aberdeen Bank, the Town and County
Bank, and the North of Scotland Banking Company, have been
within a few years established; and among recent improvements
ought to be noticed the lighting of the town with gas, and the
opening of a new turnpike road from Inverury, through Chapel
Daviot, Fyvie, Auchterless, and Forgue, towards the bridge of
Marnock.  There is a post-office in the town, and three coaches
at least run daily to Aberdeen.  The length of turnpike roads
through the parish is about five miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church formerly stood near the river
side, where the church-yard still is.  A new church was built on the
present site in 1775.  From the recent rapid increase of the popu-
lation of the burgb, the church had become wholly unequal to the
accommodation of the congregation.  It contained, with difficulty,
600 people, while the communicants averaged in number between
700 and 800.  This having been represented to the heritors and
the magistrates of the burgh, they, with enlightened liberality, re-
solved to raise a church in all respects suitable to the increased im-
portance of the burgh and parish.  The new church is to contain
1330 sittings.  It is built of beautiful granite, and is of most sub-
stantial workmanship.  The style is Gothic, moderately orna-
mented.  A neat Episcopal chapel is also in the course of erec-
tion.  There are, besides, in the town, a Methodist and, Inde-
pendent place of worship.  Notwithstanding these differences of
religious persuasion, it is pleasing to record that they do not in-
fluence the charities or courtesies of life.
   Education.-Besides the parish school there are five female
schools, chiefly for reading English, knitting, and sewing; none of
these last is endowed.  The schoolmaster's salary is L 30, with
the statutory allowance for a garden.  The average number of
scholars may be, summer and winter, 90; the school fees for the
last ten years have averaged L.32, the other emoluments arising
from the office of session-clerk, &c. may be L.4, 10s.
   Savings Bank.-There were formerly several Friendly Societies
in the parish, but they have all, so far as we know, been one after
another dissolved.  Their place, however, is well supplied by the


