
                      PARISH OF LILLIESLEAF.

       PRESBYTERY OF SELKIRK, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                 THE REV. DAVID BAXTER, MINISTER.


                I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
       Name.--The origin of the name of the parish is unknown. Ac-
cording to Chalmers (Caledonia, Vol.ii.) it is a corruption of the
Anglo-Saxon word "clif," (littus vel ripa) which signifies a haugh
or bank.  The name appears to have been differently written at
different times.  Thus in 1116, Lillescliva and Lillesclive; in ll86,
Lillesclif.--Chart. Glasgow; in 1696, Liliesleafe; in 1743, Lil-
lies-leafe; in 1750, Lilliesleafe; in 1768, Lilliesleaf.
       Extent and Boundaries.--The parish is in length about five and
three-fourths,and in breadth, two and one-half English miles,-
comprehending upwards of 7000 acres English measure. Its form
is quite irregular. It is bounded on the north by the parishes of
Selkirk and Bowden; on the west by those of Ashkirk and Wil-
ton ; on the south and west, by that of Minto, where the three
last parishes, and that of Lilliesleaf meet nearly at a point; and
on the east by the parish of Ancrum.  The river Ale, after run-
ning upwards of a mile in the parish, may be regarded as the na-
tural boundary, for about two miles farther in its eastern course,
towards the Tiviot,into which it falls.
       Topographical Appearances.--There are several elongated emi-
nences which generally run from east to west, a considerable dis-
tance,in the form of ridges; on one of which the only village in
the parish is situated.  The declivities on the sides of these ridgy
eminences are fertile and well cultivated.  Again, there are rich
valleys, and gently sloping banks, interspersed with thriving plan-
tations and hedge-rows, which present in their combination a lost
agreeable aspect to the traveller.  All this variety of ornament
has here owing to the good taste of the proprietors.
       Soil,Climate,&c.--The soils are loam, gravel, and clay, resting
upon a whinstone tilly bottom; and the climate is good in the east
of the parish, but somewhat colder in the west.


