
68                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

with them at the same table. Kindly feelings are thus generated
between magters and servants; while the latter are prompted to
diligence, and prevented from irregularity, by the presence of the
former.
                        IV.--INDUSTRY.
  Agricultvre.--Of the 17,000 acres given as the probable extent
of the parish, not more than 7000 are at present under the plough;
but additions are annually made to the arable district, and some
thousand acres might still be brought into cultivation. In the
present depressed state of the markets, it is advisable to expend
capital in improving the ground already arable. The most fa-
shionable and most profitable improvement, is what is called fur-
row, or frequent draining. While every proprietor has commenced
operations on the clay retentive soil, which abounds in the parish,
Mr Blackburn has taken the lead. His drains are only sixteen
feet asunder, and filled with broken stones. The effects of his
system are now visible on a farm of 200 acres which, from being
drenched with moisture in winter, and from being baked with the
heat of summer, was of little value either in crop or pasture; but
now, in consequence of draining, and deep ploughing, it produces
luxuriant crops of turnips and grain. In the latter years of his
life, and since his death, in 1840, his son, Mr Peter Blackburn,
has extended draining to every part of his estate. He erected, in
1837, a kiln for burning drain tiles, which yields about 500,000
annually.
  Plantations and Pasture.--There is little natural wood in the
parish. The extent under plantation, is about 1140 acres. The
object of proprietors is to convert these plantations into copse, fil-
ling them entirely with oak, and cutting them, every twenty years:
yet, as oak bark has fallen to about L.8 per ton-less than half
of the war prices, and as there is a growing demand for fir, especial-
lylarch, it is probable that the latter will be more extensively plant-
ed. The annual value of wood sold, is about L. 400. It may
increase considerably beyond that sum, as a great part of the oak
copse is not arrived at perfection.
  The ground that is waste, or in permanent pasture, extends to
8860 acres, and admits of some improvement by draining marshes,
and by sheltering expose ground by artificial plantations-even
though not partially brought into cultivation.
  Rent, and Produce.--Farms vary in extent from L. 560 a-year
down to L. 35, besides some small possessions occupied by retired
                              3


