
     Statistical Account

be at an average 1 s. 6 d. a quarter; and his emoluments
as session clerk do not exceed 4 L. annually.  The mi-
nister, besides a manse and a glebe of seven acres, has be-
tween 70 L. and 80 L. of stiped; the present incumbent, how-
ever, being possessed of heritable property in a neighbouring
parish, and having the comfort of his parishioners much at
heart, charges himself with the maintenance of an assistant
for their satisfaction; while at the same time he has never
shewn the least reluctance to the personal discharge of every
part of the ministerial office.  The people, therefore, are u-
niversally attached to the Established Church, except nine fa-
milies, whose heads and children are Antiburghers, except
also the two residing heritors, who are of the Episcopal com-
munion.  Were there heritors of the same religious profes-
sion as the vulgar, it would probably be the occasion of remo-
ving a grievance of which the people have long with too much
reason complained-that no care is taken to render the paro-
chial church decent or commodious.  The walls and roof, in-
deed, are kept in tolerably good repair; but it is badly light-
ed, and the seats and galleries have, for many years, been in
a very ruinous condition.  The people are in general devout
as well as sober and industrious, lovers of peace, and well af-
fected to government.  If, in any instance, they have mani-
fested rather less zeal than some others for the support of law
and good order, such apparent coolness is by no means to be
attributed to any discontentment with our happy Constitu-
tion; but merely to an aversion at any avocation which they
apprehend might interfere with that close application to their
own proper employments, which through their habits and cir-
cumstances they find both agreeable and necessary.
   The inhabitants of the northern half of the parish com-
monly use among themselves the Gaelic tongue; all of them
however, can speak English, which is the only language spo-


