
                         HADDINGTON.                      17

Subscription Library, containing about 1000 volumes. Hadding-
ton is also the head quarters of Samuel Brown, Esq.'s Itinerating
Libraries: * whence they set out and whither they return.

<FOOTNOTE> As the introduction of itinerating libraries is a new and cheap means of diffus-
ing useful knowledge especially among those in the humbler walks of life,-and as
it appears, from authentic printed reports and memoirs, that much good has already
been done by this mode of circulating information, it seems proper to insert a letter
from the worthy and benevolent author of the institution (at present chief magistrate
of Haddhngton) to the writer, giving a general view of the origin, progress, and pre-
sent state of these institutions:-

   REV. AND DEAR SIR, Haddington, 5th May 1835.
   I began the plan of itinerating libraries in East Lothian in 1817, with five divisions
of 50 volumes each, and there are now (1835) under my superintendence in this coun-
ty, forty-three divisions of 50 volumes, besides about 450 volumes of new and agricul-
tural books for the use of the annual subscribers of 5s.; in all 2600 volumes. The
new books are kept at Haddington, Dunbar, and North Berwick, for a few years for
the use of subscribers to the above amount, and are afterwards arranged into divisions
of 50 volumes, and stationed in the towns and villages of the county for two years,
when they are removed and exchanged. The regular removal and supply of new di-
visions has excited and kept up such a disposition to read, that in several stations dur-
ing the winter months, scarcely a volume is left in the book-case. To persons ac-
quainted with the issues from the usual settled libraries of 2600 volumes, and of
lowing statement will appear almost incredible. The
issue (by a calculation I made in 1830) of the new books at Haddington to the sub-
scribes have been nearly eight and a-half times for every volume. The gratuitous
issues at Haddington have been seven and a-half times every volume; at Gifford,
Salton, Aberlady, North Berwick, Belhaven, and Spott, they have been seven times
every volume; an the issues of the whole establishment, so far as reported, have
been on an average five times every volume. In all cases the librarians give their
services gratuitously. Until 1831, the books were lent gratuitously, the new except-
ed; but the readers made voluntary contributions at the greater number of the sta-
tions. In that year the plan was so far altered, that one penny was required for the
use of a volume during the first year a library was in the station; and during the se-
cond the books were lent gratuitously. This alteration has considerably increased
the funds, while the gratuitous reading during the second year is training the young
to a taste for reading. In 1881, with the assistance of the Scottish Missionary So-
ciety and several West India proprietors, I sent four divisions to Jamaica, to be un-
der the direction of the missionaries of that society. In 1831 and 1834, I received
from a few friends of the plan about L.400, to promote the introduction of libraries
into certain specified districts, and I have since sent to various parts of Scotland, Eng-
land, Ireland, Jamaica, Canada, South Africa, St Petersburgh, ninety divisions con-
taining 4500 volumes. They were furnished at cost prices, and to same districts at
half the cost price, and those sent to Ireland still lower. They were placed under the
superintendence of gentlemen or ladies in the different districts. In 1826, a society
was formed in Edinburgh for establishing itinerating libraries in Mid-Lothian, but
its exertions had been greatly neutralized by deaths amongst its original members,
and various other circumstances. Last year I agreed  with the  committee to take the
superintendence of their libraries, and in Edinburgh, Leith, and the vicinity, there
are now twenty-one divisions, besides stations for new, books at Buccleuch Place, and
Hill Street Academies, and the Young Ladies Seminary, George Street.
   As I a convinced that the plan is calculated to be extensively useful at a small
expense, I will be always happy to give any information in my power on the subject
to any person who may wish it. I am, your's sincerely, (Signed) SAMUEL BROWN.
   To Rev. Dr LORIMER.

   HADDINGTON.                                     13


