
746                           FIFESHIRE.

Mr George Gillespie shall have as much money of our session
for his interteynment, as Dysart gives, viz. 20 merks, being our
presbytery's bursar." He was ordained to be minister of Wemyss,
on the "supplication" of the kirk and parish, and in opposition
to the wish and order of the Archbishop of St Andrews. Mr
Robert Douglas, minister of Kirkcaldy, who will be noticed after.
wards, presided at the ordination. Mr Gillespie was soon after
translated to Edinburgh ; and in 1643, he was nominated and ap-
pointed by the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, to
be one of the Scotch Commissioners to the Westminster Assembly
of Divines. He was one of its youngest members, and his abili-
ties, acuteness, knowledge, and skill in debate, often astonished
the assembly and confounded his adversaries. He is described
by Principal Baillie as "the verie learned and acute Mr Gilles-
pie, a singular ornament of our church, than whom no one in the
whole assembly (Westminster,) speaks to better purpose." On one
occasion, as is related, after Selden, with all his talents and eru-
dition, had maintained, in an elaborate speech, the supremacy of
the civil magistrate in the government of the church, Baillie, feel-
ing strongly the necessity of the arguments advanced being an-
swered, said to Gillespie, "Get up, George, and defend the kirk
of your fathers." He replied with so much learning and ability,
that Selden, feeling the overpowering force of Gillespie's strong
arguments and conclusive reasoning, is reported to have whispered
to a friend beside him, "that boy has, in the course of one speech,
overturned the labours of my past years." George Gillespie wrote
Miscellanies, and published also an acute and able work, entitled
" Aaron's Rod Blossoming," for which be is most justly celebrat-
ed. He was chosen moderator of the General Assembly in 1648,
and died at Kirkcaldy in the end of the same year. A monu-
ment was erected to his memory, which, as an inscription on a
plain tablet, that still stands, informs us, was thrown down
through the " malign influence of Archbishop Sharp." It was
re-erected in 1745, by his grandson, the Rev. George Gillespie,
minister of Strathmiglo. The tablet is still to be seen in the south-
east porch of the present church.
   Mr Patrick Gillespie, besides being a native of Kirkcaldy, was
for some time minister of the parish. After the death of Charles I.
he favoured the side of the Commonwealth, and was appointed
Principal of the University of Glasgow. He had to encounter
much opposition and many difficulties, before he could be installed
into the office. At the Restoration he was ejected.


