
  306                         BANFFSHIRE.

   within some miles of it on the north and east, none of them have
   yet reached its boundaries, and on the south and west there is not
   a turnpike within thirty miles of it. There is a daily post to Tomintoul,
   and several small carriers go weekly, or as occasion requires,
   to Elgin and Forres. The supply of merchant goods is
   brought chiefly from Aberdeen. The long-projected, south and
   north line of road from the shores of tbe.Moray Frith to Perth,
   lies through the parish. This line of road, if opened, would
   create a transit of all marketable commodities, both to the north
   and south, and bring Elgin and Perth about fifty miles nearer each
   other. An east and west line from Aberdeen to Inverness also
   lies through the parish. This line if opened, would cross the former
   in the village of Tomintoul, and be fully as short as the present
   line by Keith and Huntly. There are only twenty-one miles
   of it to open from Grantown to Strathdon, through this parish.
   The opening of these two great lines of road would promote the
   means of communication in every direction, and conduce greatly
   to the improvement and prosperity of the parish. The present
   mail route between Tomintoul and Perth (by Dundee and Aberdeen),
   is 167 miles, whereas by the proposed line by Braemar it
   is only 67. This line was surveyed in the year 1810 by direction
   of the Commissioners for making Highland roads and bridges. It
   was again surveyed in the year 1832, by direction of the Lord
   Lieutenant of Morayshire, and other noblemen and gentlemen interested:
   and again in 1839 by direction of the trustees of the
   Blairgowrieand bridge of Cally turnpike road. The total estimated
   expense of completing the whole line from Elgin to Perth is variously
   stated in these surveys at about L.18,000 to L.23,100. It
   is calculated that the free revenue to be derived from tolls would
   yield 5 per cent interest for upwards of L. 13,000 of this sum, and
   that about L10,000 will have to be subscribed by the heritors and
   others more immediately benefited by the undertaking, It is much
   to be regretted that after so many repeated attempts, during upward
   of thirty years, this, comparatively small sum could not be
   raised forthe accomplishment of such a great national improvement.
   The  only portion of the line at present impassable by wheeled
   carriages lies between Tomintoul and Castletown of Braemar, a distance
   of twenty-one miles, and the highest estimate for opening
   this portion, including the expense of a bridge, over the Dee, is
   only L. 8200. It is, however, still to  be  hoped that the public


