
     Statistical Account

   This parish lies at the western extremity of the county of
Banff, from which it is distant between 30 and 40 computed
miles.  On every side, there are natural barriers which se-
parate it from the surrounding countries; from the parish of
Strath-don, toward the S., by Leach'-mhic-ghothin, the de-
clivity of the smith's son; from the parish of Cromdale to-
ward the N. by Beinn Chromdal, the hill of the winding
dale.  These are two long branches of hills, that, running in
an easterly direction, project from the northern trunk of the
Grampian mountains*.  From the parish of Abernethy to-
ward the W., it is separated by moors and hills, that connect
Cromdale hill with Glenavon; from the parish of Inveravan,
by moors, and hills, and narrow defiles.  The length be-
tween the extreme points that are habitable, may be about
10 computed miles.  The breadth is unequal.  Where it
tapers at the extremities, in some places, it is less than a
mile; between the verges that bound the middle, it may be

<FOOTNOTE>

plicia intelligunt, quae sunt octo simplicia:  sed servari debet usus, et consuetudo
locorum.  In nonnullis libris hoc legitur bavata terrae contra fidem veterum co-
dicum authenticorum.  Bavata autem terrae continet tredecem acras, cujus
octava pars comprehendit unam acram, dimidium acrae, et octavam partem
acrae."  This passage shows, that in ancient times, in the Highlands, a small
portion of land was cultivated, in comparison of the present.  A davoch of the
ordinary extent of these districts, would now require, at least, three times as
many cattle to labour it, as were formerly employed according to the above
passage from the Regiam Majestatem.  Hence, it may be inferred, that the
population has increased in proportion.

<UNREADABLE>

*Grampian, from Grant and Beinn.  Grant, like the of the Greeks,
has two opposite meanings.  In some fragments ascribed to Ossian, it signifies
beautiful.  This meaning, now, is obsolete, and it signifies deformed, ugly, etc.
The old Caledonians, as these mountains abounded in game, and connecting
beauty with utility, might have given the name in the former sense.  Mr.
Henry Saville, and Mr. Lhuyd, two eminent antiquaries, call them Grant
Beinn, from which comes the soft inflected Grampian of the Romans.

</UNREADABLE>


