
92                            ARGYLESHIRE.


  Various kinds of fish abound in all our lakes, especially in
Lochawe, viz. salmon, diffierent kinds of trout, some of which, in
point of size, equal an ordinary-sized salmon, eel, char, now rather
a scarce fish, perch and pike. The pike is only of recent impor-
tation; and it is greatly feared, that the character of the lake will
suffer from the ravages of this active and voracious fish. The
small lakes in the braes teem with the fish, though they are, gene-
rally speaking, of a small size.
  Botany.--At a period, comparatively recent, the greater part
of our moors and valleys, and the sides of our mnuntains, midway
to their summits, were clothed with trees of various kinds. The
braes of the parish, a district of great extent, and the valleys of the
Urchay, the Strae and the Lochay, were clothed with a dense and
magnificent forest, partly of oak, birch, ash, and alder, but chiefly
of pine. Some scanty remains of these once mighty forests are
still to be seen in different localities in the parish, viz. Cranich,
Doiridarroch, Glenfuath, Correhorri, and Coirre Vicar. They
were leased out, about a century ago, to an Irish company, who
felled an immense quantity of timber, which they floated down the
Urchay, when in flood, to the head of Loch Awe, where it was
hewn into planks, and then floated down Loch Awe in rafts to the
pass of Brander; whence it was carted down to the sea, and ship-
ped at Bunawe. This, it is said, proved a bad speculation for
all parties concerned. It sealed the fate of those noble forests
which, for many years, were neglected, and which, consequently,
hastened to premature decay. The stumps and roots of these
once magnificent trees are now dug up by the mountain shepherd
god forester, for the double purpose of supplying him with light
and fuel. The quality of the timber was very superior. It was
found, at the time of stripping Caolchurn castle, that is, after the
lapse of three centuries, perfectly fresh and free of moth and rot.
It was, in point of quality, equal to the best Baltic timber.  The
last remains of the pine-forest of Glenstrae was cut down thirty-
five years ago, and employed in the erection of the parish church,
the timber of which is exceedingly, and justly admired. Some of
the trees were of an enormous size. Whilst the pine seems to have
been the prevalent tree, the oak failed not to prefer his claim to
sovereignty. There are some oak trunks, of enormous size, to be
seen in our rivers and mosses. There is one below Achallader,
which, till of late, when the river, which it spanned, shifted its
channel, served for a bridge; and there are trunks of a predigious


