
                           DUNNOTTAR.                       213

perpendicularly, from 150 to between 200 and 300 feet out of the
deep water washing their base. The height of the cliffs, the
fantastic forms of the huge insulated masses, and the great
disruption appearing throughout, have rendered the Dunnot-
tar shore one of the most romantic on the east coast, as it is to
the land-locked mariner, in easterly storms, one of the most hope-
less. Its inhospitable aspect is here and there softened by reced-
ing coves or little bays, accessible from the land by grassy slopes,
but fenced by sunken rocks against approach from the sea. In
several places, l`rfe caverns are hollowed in the cliffs, most of
them terminating under ground, but some passing from side to
side of projecting rocks. Of these, a remarkable one, named the
Long Gallery, runs under a high promontory, from one bay to
another, a distance of more than 150 yards. This singular ca-
vern, or marine arcade, formed in the solid rocj, admits the pas-
sage of an ordinary sized boat, and the navigation of it is seldom
omitted by boatmen conducting parties of pleasure. South of this,
about a mile of uninterrupted cliff, the very highest of all the
range, has the name of Fowlsheugh, well known as the hatching
place of myriads of sea-fowl of various descriptions, whose nests oc-
cupy and whiten the whole face of that extensive portion of the
rock. The privilege of taking eggs and birds from this place is
let to a tenant, who, for the purpose of collecting them, suffers
himself to be lowered by a rope from
		"--the dreadful summit of the cliff,
		That beetles o'er his base into the sea."
From this dangerous employment no accident is known to have ever
happened, although a few years ago, the malicious act of cutting
the rope nearly through, was perpetrated over night, but discover-
ed in the morning, just in time to save the climber from destruc-
tion. From the height of the coast, and the ascent of the land
towards the interinr, the area of the parish is, generally speaking,
of considerable altitude. Of the cultivated land the more elevat-
ed part is towards the south and west. In that quarter, the ascent
is gradual from the sea cliff to the moor of Carmount, a level
heath of between 400 and 500 acres. At the further extremity
of that waste, Carmount hill rises probably 800 feet above the
levdl of the sea. Again from the sea-coast, a short way north of
Crawton village, the land, in its ascent, assumes the shape of suc-
cessive ridges or knolls, which, sweeping north-westward for about
three miles, fall in with the low hills of Glaslow and Tucks; and


