
342                  RENFREWSHIRE

Thenumberof,personstowhomthechurcha'N-odsacCowtno-
dadon is 830. By filling the passages and stairs, and cramming
it choke-full, it, may hold about 940 persons of ordinary size. This
its the wholeaceonin-,Podation for a population of 9187 souls, the
great proportion of which is warmly-attached to the Establishment.
. I As to the mode in which the sittings are held, some explanation
isnacessary, Inonesensetheyarea4free,inanothernoneofthem
are free; The heritors hold all the seats as theirs, and claim a right
to admit or keep out of them all and sundry, just as they please I
The parishioners, on the other hand, maintain that they have Do
right%to the se`ts; that, leg-ally, beritors,bave only room for them-
selves and, their families; that the church is not built solely for
their use, but for the use of, at least, two-thirds of the examinable
ns above twelve years of age in,the parish; that when a new
"rso
church is to be built, they must build it of the proper dimension,
furnish a minister to it, pav his stipend, and the officers of the church;
-provide a precentor, Bible and Psalm Book for the minister, com-
miunion'elements and cups, and salvers, and tablecloths, and a laver
for baptism,- in short, that every thing is to be provided by the
heritors for the celebration of divine ordinaiuces.in the church, free
ofall expense to the parishioners; not out of the private funds of
he'ritqm but out of the church's patrimony in thdir hands, appoint-
,edb law to be appropriated to %that purpose.
-By what right, then, or by what law, it is asked, haie beritors a
claim'to charge seat rents in landward parishes?. If, by law, they
may be compelled to build a church free of expense to the parish-
ioners, that all may enjoy the, benefit of divine worship, where is
their right to charge seat rents? Is not the doing of it ille
                                   qal and
w#,St
. These views of the question led the parishioners of Neiiston ulti-
mately to oppose such a demand. From 1798, seat rents were
demandedl ;In that year, a system of setting them up.by public
awtion in -the church commedced. As it proceeded, beaxt-burn-
--ings:and aninaosities were the results.  The demand being great,
&,ud:the suppkv  small, some of the seats rose to 1,. 1, I I s. 6d. per
     t6en . incises, so that the average reut, for -ai:least twenty vears,
eigh
!VW 12s.!4(L a sitter t,
This produced m'urmunng,andcomplaiiits.:L But what could
they do They could not save  themselves., They had no other
'b'u't "'43ithr to u t to this'; illfgatity, or', to leavo, the
elturch, and, with their families, to be depraved of Aiviiae ordi.


