
			GRAITNEY.                          267

the confluence of the Kirtle and the Solway, was seen not many
years ago a number of white stones placed upright, and enclosing
half an acre of ground, in an oval form. One of them, the larg-
est, is all that now remains, as some suppose, of a Druidical tem-
ple, the rest having been remove for the cultivation of the soil.
This has obtained the name of the Lochmaben Stone; it measures
8 feet in height and 21 in circumference, and must have been
brought from a considerable distance. Its appearance resembles
granite, but, with the exception of a very hard incrustation where
it is exposed to the external air, it is of a much softer and gravel-
ly colposition. Alliances between the tvo kingdoms are said to
have been formed in ancient days within the limits of this temple.
	Eminent Men.--Mr Galt, who was minister of Graitney for
sixty years, seems to have been a man of primitive piety and sim-
plicity of manners, and his memory is still delightfully cherished
by the aged inhabitants.  He was also a man of superior classical
attainments, as certain manuscripts, particularly the book of Job
in Latin verse, and a diary, minutely kept, in prose, now in the hands
of the Misses Gibson, Edinburgh, amply testify.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers of baptisms, mar-
riages, and transactions of the kirk-session, among which last are
interspersed many remarkable occurrences, such as the advance and
retreat of a division of the rebels in 1745, stories and tales of
wonder, are extremely accurately written by Mr Galt, and are pretty
voluminous. They commnence in 1730, and continue for sixty years,
after which there is an almost entire deficiency in the minutes of
session.

			III.-POPULATION.
	Since the year 1755, when Dr Webster made a census, the popu-
lation has been nearly doubled; and since the period of last Statis-
tical Account it has exactly 99 of an hncrease. It now amounts
to 1909. The increase is chiefly to be attributed to the encouraged.
ment given to manufacturers during the late war, and the facility
afforded to the buildinf of cottages by landholders, particularly by
Sir John Heron Maxwell in the village of Springfield, which, though
commenced only in 1791, contains now about 500 inhabitants, al-
most entirely cotton-weavers.

Number of people in the country,                               1009
		villages,                                       900
Average of births for the last seven years,                      60


