
278                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the end of it, "I cannot take upon me to say that no workable coal
will be found on the Springkell estate, next to Chapel-hill, but,
from my experience, and comparing the strata at Springkell with
those of the coal districts of Scotland, I have little or no hope of
a workable coal being around there."
	Trees.--The soil particularly along the banks of the river is con-
genial to oak, ash, plane, beech, elm, alder, birch, to Scots fir, larches,
and various species of ornamental trees. Near the mansion-house
of Springkell, there are different trees above 150 years of age,
which measure from 9 to 11 feet in circumference, taken at 3 feet
from the ground. At Wyesbie-house, there are three aged and
wide-spreading oaks, which measure about 10 feet in circumfe-
rence. In a holm, too, near Mossknow-house, there are two or-
namental ashes, and an aged beech, which are 10 or 11 feet in
circumference.

			II-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--Sir Patrick Maxwell, Bart; and Colonel Graham
are the chief land-owners; who, along with the. other heritors, give,
by their example and countenance, great encouragement to their
tenants to persevere in improving their farms.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial register of marriages com-
mences in 1709; and that of baptisms in 1713. These registers,
though not voluminous, appear to have been regularly kept.
	Historical Events and Antiquities.--In former times this parish,
ricb in feudal associations, was undoubtedly the scene of bloody
contests and cruel rapine. In feudal times, various causes of jea-
lousy and discord subsisted aynong the chiefs of clans, and gave
rise to as many wars. During these endless contests, the country
seems to have been filled with castles and places of strength, erect-
ed for the security of the inhabitants, not, in general, against fo-
reign forces, but against internal hostilities. The square towers,
which were built near the frontier of England, were chiefly used by
their possessors, in all probability, as places of security against the
formidable inroads, and fierce attacks of the English. In this
neighbourhood the towers were generally of a square form, and
three stories high. The roof was covered with square flags; with
a gentle tapering towards the top, and surrounded by battlements
and parapets. The old tower of Woodhouse, having been unroof-
ed and greatly rent for many a year,-is now in a most ruinous con-
dition. About three years ago, its south side fell down, during a
                                4


