
58                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

with Durrisquhin, (now Dalscone,) and a L. 5 property within the
liberties of Dumfries, and the estate was possessed by the Max-
well family till it was sold to the late Alexander Johnston, Esq.
about the year 1750. It is now in the possession of his son, the
learned and accomplished Peter Johnrton, Esq. who, at the very
anced age of about eighty years, enjoys entire the faculties of
his vigorous and cultivated mind, and is the delight and the orna-
ment of his social and domestic circle.
	The Earl of Galloway had formerly a large property in this pa-
rish, and there is still a place distinguished by the name of "Gar-
lies;" but the parish is now possessed by a great number of pro-
prietors, of whose estates and families the limits prescribed to this
survey preclude a particular description. The proprietors of Dals-
winton, Carnsalloch, and Milnhead, possess nearly the half of the
parish, the other part belongs to forty different land-owners.
        Eminent Men.-Under this head the late Patrick Miller, Esq.
of Dalswinton well deserves to be noticed. His ingenuity and per-
severance in applying the wonderful power of steam to the purposes
of navigation will transmit his name with honour to posterity.
Patrick Miller, Esq. his eldest son, has published an elaborate
"Narrative of Facts" on his claim to the invention and practice
of steam navigation, to which the reader is referred for ample and
satisfactory information upon this interesting subject. The present
archdeacon of Calcutta, Daniel Corrie, belongs also to this paris,
and received his education at the parochial school. His grand-
father was tenant of Duncow mill, and his father was curate at
Colstervorth in Lincolnshire. The late Luke Frazer Esq. of Glen-
maid, who was so long an able and zealous instructor of youth in
the High School of Edinburgh, was born at Auchenrath. Mr Al-
lan Canningham, well known for his various literary publications,
is a native of this parish. So also, I may add, is Mr Andrew
Crichton, author of the Life of Blackadder, History of Arabia,
&c. It may be noticed also, that Sir Andrew Halliday, physi-
cian, was in early life a candidate for our parish school at Duncow.
        Parochial Register.-The earliest date of our parish register,
containing baptisms, marriages, discipline, and division of poors'
money, is 1725: it has been always kept with considerable care,
except during the last incumbency. For a long time the dissen-
ters declined to give their names to be inserted, though they had
the offer of registration free of expense. Even now our registers
are not entirely full.


