
244                         BANFFSHIRE.

of last Account.  When able for occasional field labour, earning by
this 8d. a day without food, in the summer season they have chiefly
to depend for winter sustenance on what they can save from this pit-
tance, a week's industrious application to the spinning wheel yielding
them only about sixpence.  The male agricultural labourer when
married enjoys a bare supply of the necessaries of life, and, when
overtaken with premature old age, has too often to struggle with
this, aggravated by the ills of poverty, or to receive a stinted al-
lowance, or to occupy an unwelcome place in the family of a child.
The rate of remuneration for the several branches of labour is
probably beyond all direct human control.  Yet much might be
done by proprietors, masters, and philanthropists generally, to
ameliorate the condition of this class, by taking every means to
break up their migratory habits, by subjecting them to the influ-
ence of domestic instruction and restraints, by the introduction of
the hind or cottar system on large farms, instead of the demoralis-
ing influence of the bothy, by encouraging saving habits and the
use of savings' banks, by destroying or better regulating the sys-
tem of hiring in markets, and by using every effort to remove those
licensed temptations to drunkenness and improvidence in markets
and otherwise, to which reference has been made.
  On the whole, it is to be hoped that the morality of the com-
munity has advanced since the end of last century.  Many things
then openly practised are now esteemed more or less disreputable,
as, for instance, among many, the drunkenness then esteemed so
large an ingredient in good fellowship, profanity, smuggling, &C.
It is to be lamented tbat licentiousness, lying, and reckless habits
of backbiting, have hitherto given little evidence of being on the
decline.  By the blessing of God's Spirit, on the grand and ap-
pointed instrument of human regeneration, we trust that another
similar period may see these and all kindred obstacles to man's
well-being effectually overcome.

<FOOTNOTE>The present and the former Statistical Account contain testimonies to the happy
working of this system in distrits where it has long prevailed. See Accounts of Lang-
ton, Hutton, Birwickshire; Linton, Roxburghshire; also Sir John Sinclair's Ana-
lysis of Old Account, p. 261.

      Drawn up December 1839.
        Revised March 1842.


