
                            COMRIE.                                 589

       quantity has been reclaimed on Dunira of late, and in the time of
       Lord Melville.  It is stated respecting Lawers, that, any land at-
       tempted to be improved appears to be improved at an expense which
       affords no remuneration ; and respecting the Perth, estate, that
       forty or fifty acres have recently been converted from bog and pas-
       ture to arableland,and about one-half ofwhichwill returnto pasture.
          Leases.--Leases, when principally of gmzing farms, run from
       nine to eleven years; and when of arable, always nineteen years.
          The farm-buildings and enclosures are generally sufficient for
       the farm, and are in the course of improvement.
          Improvements.-The improvements recently made in the parish
       consist of drainage, enclosures, the erection of suitable farm-stead-
       ings, irrigation, turning useless marshes into profitable hay-mea-
       dows, and planting woods.  The oak woods have been brought
       under a regular system of management; the vacancies planted
       up with oak, and the barren wood destroyed.  Much might still.
       be done, and is now in course of being done.  The hill partures
       are susceptible of very conshderable improvement, were the prac-
       tice followed in the south of Scotland, of cutting open drains along
       the hills, generally introduced.  Little, however, has been
       in that way, except on the estate of Lawers.  A whole fqrtn has
       lately been reclaiuied by the proprietor of Dalginross, so as to
       yield a fair return; and various other improvements have been
       made on that property.
          The lime-quarry at the head of locbearn (in the quoad civilia
       district of the parish) greatly improves the agriculture of the dis-
       trict.  A boat-load, containing from sixty to seventy bolls, may
       be had, burnt, for L. 3 or L 4; and usually thirty bolls are ap-
       plied to an acre.  Manure is sold at from 4s. to 5s. the cubie yard.
          Quarries.-There are two slate quarries on the Perth, and
       another on the Aboruchill estates. ]3oth are wrought, though
       not extensively, and seem to yield a fair return.  There are a
       number of whinstone quarrier.
          Gross Produce,--l cannot ascertain with any accuracy the ave-
       rage gross amount of raw produce reared in theparish.  The fal-
       lowing is a specimen.
          The farm of Tullybannocher, on Dunira estate, possessed, by
       Mr M'Isaac, is the largest amble farm in the parish. It contains,
       in Scots acres, 270 arable, and 1200 uncultivated land ; and,the
       average rent is L 1, 10s. per acre. He grows annuall an
       average of years, 250 quarters of barley, 350 quarters of oats,97




