
776                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

liberty to build a harbour at Leith was obtained by the inhabitants
of that burgh, and a monastic institution, called the Preceptory of
St Anthony, was formed in the parish of South Leith, "south of
ther Water of Leith." The last of the family of Logan was some-
how implicated in the mysterious affair of the Gowrie conspiracy, a
circumstance which was only discover after his death. His estates
were confiscated, and Restalrig passed into the hands of Lord Bal-
merino, Secretary to James VI., with whose descendants it re-
mained, along with the patronage. of the parish church, till both
were forfeited by the treason of the last Lord Balmerino in 1745.
This noble family had their residence in Leith; and one of them,
Lord Couper, was a member of the kirk-session of the parish.
   At the Restoration, the church of Restalrig shared the general
fate of the Catholic establishments. The first assembly of the
reformed church, which met in Edinburgh in 1560, ordered it to
be "razed and utterly casten down and destroyed, as a monument
of idolatry." It was accordingly unroofed, and nothing left
but the external walls. In this condition it remained for cen-
turies, till the year 1836, when, by the exertions of a few zea-
lous individuals, aided by the Church Extension Committee,
a sum was raised by subscription, and the edifice was com-
pletly restored and renovated, after a plan gratuitously fur-
nished by W. Burn, Esq. architect. It now forms a preach-
ing station, where occasional worship is performed by the mi-
nisters of Leith, for the benefit of the surrounding population.
The ancient burying-ground of the parish still remains attached
to this church, and is kept in good order through the instrumen-
tality of a Society of very ancient institution in the parish, called
the "Friendly Society of Restalrig," who, besides taking the ma-
nagement of the, cemetery, contribute to the relief of the poor of
the vicinity, and support a school for the education of children.
It was by the zeal of this society, and the exertions of its secre-
tary, Andrew Scott, Esq. W. S., that the renovation of the ancient
church was effected.
   Parish of South Leith.-The precise date of the erection of the
present church of South Leith cannot be ascertained, but it is pro-
bable that it was halt about the year 1490. A village had gra-
dually here sprung up antecedent to this period, the rudiments of
the future burgh; and as the principal proportion of the inhabi-
tants of the parish resided in this quarter, instead of at Easter
Restalrig, the original position of the parish church, the probabi-



