
                    NIGG.                                  19

  Extent, &c.-The parish is situated in 570&deg;, 44', north latitude;
and 4&deg; west longitude; and forms the most southern point of the
district called Easter Ross. It is nearly 6 miles in length; from
2 to 3 miles in breadth; and contains about 14 square miles. It
is bounded on the south-east by the Moray Frith; on the south
and west by the Cromarty Frith; and on the north by the parishes
of Logie Easter and Fearn.
  Topographical Appearances.-About one-third of its extent con-
sists of what is called the Hill of Nigg.* This bill is about five
miles in length and one in breadth ; it extends along the shore of
the Moray Frith, from the north Sutor of Cromarty (the southern
extremity,) to the farm of Shandwick (the north-east extremi-
ty,) and varies in height from 300 to 500 feet. The rock over-
hanging the shore is generally 300 feet in perpendicular height;
in many parts covered with ivy trees of wonderful size, and stud-
ded with caves and fissures, which must be seen in order to be ad-
mired. From the highest part of the hill, nine counties may be
seen by the naked eye, when the state of the atmosphere is favour-
able, viz. Caithness, Sutherland, Ross, Cromarty, Inverness, Nairn,
Moray Banff, and Perth. The soil of this portion of the parish is
generally poor, cold, and wet. The greater part has been plant-
ed with Scotch firs, which thrive or fail according to the favourable
or unfavourable circumstances in which they are placed. All the
inhabitants are comprised in twelve families.
  The remaining two-thirds of the territorial extent of the parish
consist of a naturally fertile slope on the north-west side of the hill,
and an equally fertile plain betwixt the termination of the slope
and the boundaries of the parishes of Logie Easter and Fearn.
Much has no doubt been done, of late years, by various proprietors
in the way of improving this extensive slope and plain; but still
much remains to be done.  Roads, and drains, and fences and
trenching are required. In few cases has good taste in planning
farms and dividing fields been hitherto shewn, and in as few have
the cottages of the poor been located and built with a regard to
cleanliness and freedom from damp. Indeed, the writer is con.
strained to state, that, good as is the soil of this part of the parish,
there is not a spot of it on which the eye can look with unmingled
pleasure.  The parish is inferior to none in Scotland in soil and
other natural advantages. Why should it be at once proverbial
for its fertility, and a bye-word for its ruggedness ?

<FOOTNOTE>It was called of old the Bishop's Forest.


