

                           TULLIALLAN.                    871

a dwelling-house and garden.  The school is taught by the mas-
ter, aided by an assistant, and is attended by 180 scholars.  The
salary is the maximum.  The fees are not well paid.  The mas-
ter received for fees last year L.60, out of which he pays L.40 to
his assistant.  Within the last year, a subscription school has been
built by Government aid.  It is taught by an elder of the Esta-
blished Church, and an assistant, and is attended by 130 scholars.
An infant school has been lately opened, and promises to be suc-
cessful.  There are three other schools in the town and parish, in
which sewing, knitting, and the ordinary branches of education
are taught. There is a general library in the town, consisting of
upwards of 1000 volumes, which has afforded much instruction to
the community, and is under excellent management. There are
two other small libraries, chiefly religious, for the benefit of the
members of the churches to which they belong.  The state of
education and instruction in this parish is good, and, under the
Divine blessing, must prove highly beneficial to the moral and in-
tellectual character of the rising generation.
   Town Kincardine.-The town of Kincardine, which contains
the greatest proportion of the population of the parish, is situated
on the north bank of the Forth, about midway between Stirling
and Edinburgh.  It is a burgh of baronv.  The Trustees of Lord
Keith are the superiors, and they appoint baron-bailier as magis-
trates. The town has been very irregularly built.  The houses
are mostly one story, and covered with tile ; but those recently
built contain two or three flats, and are covered with slate.  The
streets are in a bad state, but there is a prospect of their being
improved.  There are two good inns in the town, and at the post-
office there are two arrivals from the east and west during the
twenty-four hours.  There is a branch of the Glasgow Union and
Commercial Banks in the tonwn, which affords great accommoda-
tion to the surrounding district.  A coach passes through the
town daily for Glasgow, and steam-boats ply regularly between
Edinburgh and Stirling, and take in passengers at the pier.
   Poor and their Provision.-Tlie number of the poor on the ses-
sion roll is 5 1. This number is small in proportion to the popu-
lation of the parish; but many of the parishioners receive Trinity
money and other annuities, and are thereby rendered more indepen-
dent of parochial assistance. There is also a society of ladies who
minister much to the comfort and support of the poor.  One of the


