
     Statistical Account

applied. The same vein of lime-stone is discovered in diffe-
ent places, S. W. and N. F. of this parish.  The quarry has
dipt so much of late, by the uncommon demand for lime, since
the farmers began to taste the sweets of improvement, within
these last 20 years, that enough of this lime cannot be got to
supply the country; so that the farmers find their account in
carrying shells from Stirling.  The spirit of improvement
will surmount many difficulties, when it is once fairly begun;
especially when the farmer finds, that the surest way of put-
ting money into his pocket is, to bellow much industry, and
some expence in cultivating his ground.
   Slates are foune in different places of this district.  The
best are the azure blue slates of Aney, on the property of Mr.
Stirling of Kier, which rise of a proper breadth, ring well,
stand the carriage, and resist the influence of the weather for
any length of time.  The inferiority of the slate at Kerinoch,
on the property of Mr. M'Nab of M'Nab, is chiefly owing,
not to any want of metal, but to their being less beautiful, 
and smaller in the size.  The purple slates at Tombca, the
property of Mr. Drummond of Perth, being less durable than
the other two kinds, sell at the 25s, the 1000, while the others
are sold at 21 s., especially the first.  Very fine flags, of a gray
colour, are found at Brackland, on the property of the Earl of
Moray, which rise frequently 6 feet square, not above 1 1/2 or
2 inches thick, and very smooth; yet, from their toughness, 
they are easily carried to a distance, and used for malt kilns,
floors and pavement.  Before the discovery of blue slate in
this country, these flags were used for covering houses; par-
ticularly Doune Castle, built by Murdoch Duke of Albany, 
besides several others.  The same kind of slate is still used in
Fife, Strathern, Strathmore, and many other parts of the
kingdom*.   

<FOOTNOTE>

*There was a lead mine discovered, some years age, in the N. E. side of


