
684                     	FORFARSHIRE

oats and barley, and fourpence for wheat, the wheat-threave con-
taining four sheaves more. About twenty-eight threaves per im-
perial acre is a common quantity. Ten threave per day, and some-
times more, may be cut, bound, and set up by a good reaper.
   The farm-houses and offices are, in general, substantial and
commodious, and usually cost, exclusive of carriages, from two to
three years rent. Almost all the fields are inclosed, either with
hedges, or with dry-stone dikes. The former, with the interspersed
woodlands, give to a great part of the parish a warm, clothed ap-
pearance.
   Live-Stock.--It is not above twenty or thirty years since almost
the only sheep to be seen in the low country pastures during the
summer months were a few on the lawns round the houses of the
proprietors, and these were exclusively of the black-faced breed.
Regular stocks of the Leicester breed are now kept, and through-
out the district, the thinner soils are usually depastured with sheep,
At the same period, all the cattle were of the native Angus breed,
partly horned, but generally polled or "dodded;" a very fine de-
scription of stock, but, less profitable on good snils than the Tees-
water, which is now taking their place on the larger farms. A cross
between the two is becoming very common in the southern part of
this parish, where very superior stock of both descriptions is rear-
ed, capable of competing with any similar stock in the country.
Formerly, all the fat sheep and cattle, beyond what was required
for home consumption, or for the supply of the neighbouring towns,
were sent partly to Edinburgh, but chiefly to Glasgow. Since the
introduction of steam-navigation, a considerable proportion of both,
and particularly of the best cattle of the native breed, is sent to,
London, where they bring the highest prices,
   Plantations.--The plantations on the Lindertis and Glammiss
estates were commenced between 1770 and 1780, and consist of
larch, spruce, and Scotch fir, with an intermixture of hard-wood
in some places. Many of the larch and spruce trees grew to a
large size, but most of the fine-timber has been cut down for the
benefit of the hard wood. Considerable additions have been made
within the last thirty years to the Lindertis plantations, and also
to those an the lands of Airlie and Cardean.
   It is to be regretted that the larch cannot now be depended
upon as formerly, from its liability to various destructive diseases.
In the woods of Lindertis, it was observed at a very early pdriod
to be subjected when planted on dry gravelly soils, to a rot in the


