
                                   GREENOCK.                              411

      strata, and containing in some places considerable masses of lime.-
      stone.  There is, however, but little of this important rock to be
      fotmol either in situ, or in such quantitie   s as to encourage the,
      working of it.  The sandstone rocks have been quarried to a consi-
      derable extent, and appear to be well adapted to the purposes of the,
      builder.  They do not contain, so far as wd have beard, any traces
      of organic remains-almost the only foreign substance which is
      found in them being a soft unctuous clay, and a few small portions,
      lately discovered, of gypsum.  The conglomerated strata are chief-
      ly composed of rolled pebbles or quartz, with an admixture of frag.
      ments of rnica-slate, and clay-slate, firmly bound together by a basis
      of silicified iron-shot clay.  The secondary greenstone, of which
      the surrounding hills are formed, is of so very friable and splintery
      a nature, as to be fit for scarce any economical purpose.  It con-
      tains, however, a considerable number of interesting minerals,
      though the specimens found of them are, from the nature of the
      rock, so much weathered a    's to be of no value. Thus, we possess
      almost every member of the zeolite family: viz. analcime, stilbite,
      heulandite, and some beautifully delicate specimens of mesotype;
      also calcareous spar, quartz crystals, sulphate of barytes, prehnite,
      and rare but distinct specimens of a very fine greenish lithomarge.
      We need hardly roention that there are no traces of coal in this
      parish.
         The soil in general is bad.  On the shore it consists chiefly of
      clay, mingled with sea-shells and gravel.  'In the higher ground
      immediately adjoining, there are a few fields of excellent loam.
      With these exceptions the soil is stiff and clayey, or consists of a
      thin surface of vegetable mould, restin on a subsoil of clay, or on
      the solid rock, and consequently wet and ungrateful, and in some
      placesscarcelyeapableofdrainingandcultivation.  Hereandthere9
      even in the lowest elevations, there are spots- of peat-moss, or soil
      iningled with peat, and the highest ground -consists principally of
      soil of that description.
         There are no mines of any kind in the parish.  Copper mines
      were worked for some time in the neighbouring parish of GourQck;
      but it is the universal belief,.that there is none of that or any other
      workable mineral in Greenock.
         Botany.--r-There is nothing peculiarly interestin in the-,botany
      of this parish.  It comprehends,, however, two Plants of c4nside'-
      rable rarity, viz. the Bartsia'viseosa and the.
      des, besides the Olowing more frequent, yet uncommon speciest


