
                              CRAIGNISH.                   47

        No fewer than twenty islets belong to the parish.  Of these
     the largest on the east are islets M'Niven and M'Larty.  A chain
     of five islets stretches to the South-west, off the southern extre-
     mity of the peninsula.  The largest Of these is called Garbhreisa,
     and forms, along with the extremity just mentioned, the well
     known passage named Dorus m6r, or Great Door.  About a mile.
     and a quarter to the west of Craignisb, between the mainland and
     Jura, lie three small islands, called Reisa-yribiefaidean, Cor-reisa,
     and Reisa-an-tsruth.  These are nearly south of each other.  The
     two first are separated by a very narrow channel; the middle and
     most southern are much farther apart.  All the islets which belong
     to the parish are covered with verdure, and some of them are of
     considerable value.
        The climate is extremely mild.  Intense cold is rarely expe-
     rienced.  There is little frost, and snow seldom lies more than
     two days upon the ground.  As the parish is situated on the skirts
     of the Atlantic, the climate is, however, verv humid.
        Hydrography, Friths, 4-c.-Loch Craignish, which divides the
     peninsular part of the parish from Kilmartin, extends into the
     country in a north-easterly direction. It is about six miles long.
     Its breadth varies.  At its mouth it approaches three miles; and at
     a little distance from its head, it is scarcely one.  Its average depth
     is l2,and where deepest l6 fathoms.  It is adorned with a number of
     beautiful green islets, a few of which are decorated with trees of fir,
     asb, oak, and birch.  They lie in the form of two nearly parallel
     lines on either side of it.  A narrow frith separates them from the
     mainland, and the sound or channel which extends betwixt either
     parallel line is about half a mile in breadth, and of the average
     depth already specified.  On the west of the parish, about a mile
     from the south point of the peninsula, is a creek called little Loch
     Craignisb.
        Tides.-The tides to the south and west merit attention, on ac-
     count of their rapidity and danger.  The native boatmen are so
     intimately acquainted with them as rarely to incur hazard; but on
     several occasions, lamentable accidents have occurred in conse-
     quence of the inexperience or temerity of mariners from a distance.
        The tide of flood proceeds in a northerly direction.  It sets in,
     fr(M the sound of Jura, and divides itself into two great currents.
     Of these, the one proceeds between the coast of North Knapdale,
     and the islets which lie to the south of the Point of Craignish;
     and, while a part of it flows into Loch Craignish, and Loch Cri-


