
546                          FIFESHIRE.

marks of affection and esteem. This amiable feature in their
character, has hitherto been general.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The number of males employed in agriculture is 120. They
may be thus divided: proprietors farming their estates or part of
them, 5; tenants, 12; cottars or agricultural married servants, 37;
unmarried do., 66; total, 120. The industry of the parish in
other respects may be estimated from the following statement:
day labourers, 18; weavers, 10; wrights, 2 masters workmen and
apprentices, II sawyers, 5 smiths, 6 masters, workmen and apprentices,
4; publican, I toll-keeper, I tailors, 2 masters, apprentice
patience 1:masons, 3; gardeners, 2 masters, workmen and ap-
prentices, 4; grocers in a small way, 2; millers, 3, assistants, &c.
3;. beadle, 1 shoemakers, 3 masters, workmen and apprentices,
6; ministers, I Established, I Secession; parochial schoolmaster
1, schoolmistresses, 2 butler, gamekeeper, &c. 5 retired, 3;
total, 101.
    There is no large manufactory in the parish. The weavers are
employed at home work, and when this cannot be obtained, they
are supplied with Osnaburgh, or other cloth, by the merchants of
Dundee and Cupar; or by their agents in the country. In addition
to the number who weave, mentioned above, there are several
females who occupy themselves in this manner, during the winter.
In summer, they generally give up this work when the farmers
need their assistance.
    The only branch of industry, except agriculture, which is carried
on to any extent, is a saw-mill, which was some years ago erected
by Mr Thomson of Cbarleton. It has been occupied, ever since It
was built, by Mr William Malcolm, wright. During the course of
the year, it is by him actively employed, and cuts down a considerable
quantity of wood. Its power is not sufficiently strong for
large trees, but it is admirably adapted for cutting poling for preparing
wood for sheep flakes, and for converting inferior timber
into staves for herring barrels. Many thousands of these are annually
sent from this mill to Leith, and other places on the Forth
where herrings are cured.
    Agriculture.-The whole of this parish is arable, with the exception
of the hill tops which are planted. The number of cul-
tivated acres is about 3550 Scotch, or by imperial measure, 4477.
There is no land which continues waste, or in a state of natural
pasture. There is no undivided common. The number of acres


