
			NEWTON-UPON-AYR.                  97

ment. Nor is it matter of wonder that, while the land chang-
ed possessors every seven years, little should have been, done in in-
closing fields, or meliorating the soil. But after the experience of
centuries had at length convinced the freemen of the necessity of
a change in this respect, and their tenures were first greatly extend-
ed, and latterly rendered permanent, there was a complete revolu-
tion in the rural economy of the parish. Land which had previ-
ously been allowed to lie waste was brought under cultivation-
rude turf-mounds gave place to thorn-hedges or substantial stone-
walls, with which most of the fields are now enclosed--and so great-
ly has the soil been improved, that from these and other causes,
freedoms are more than ten times their value about forty years
ago. Such has been the favourable result of a partial abandon-
ment of the "principles of equality and independence" of which,
as is remarked in the appendix to the last Statistical Account, the
constitution of this burgh affords one of the best exemplifications.
	Rent of Land.--The highest rent given for arable land is L. 5,
per acre, but some of it will not yield more than 10s. The average
rent may be stated at L. 1, 15s. The rent of grazing a cow is
from L. 4 to L. 5. The greater part of the land is cultivated by
the freemen themselves; and it is somewhat singular that, in a pa-
rish where so many are more or less employed in agriculture, only
one family is exclusively supported by farming.
	Fisheries,--With the exception of those employed in the salmon-
fishery, who remain here for only a part of the year, all the fisher-
men in the district reside in this parish. They are chiefly engag-
ed in white-fisliing. Seven boats are employed in it, and there
are four men required for each boat. About twenty years ago,
their wages were 3s. 6d. a day: now they have fallen to 2s. In-
stead of fishing as they formerly did through the whole extent of
the Frith, and even up Loch-Fyne, numbers of the Newton fisher-
men have settled permanently at the various stations which they
were wont only occasionally to visit. And those who remain have
not merely their range of fishing circumscribed, but, being exclud-
ed from the Glasgow market by the successful rivalry of their
brethren on the Highland coasts, who have the advantage of more
frequent and convenient communication by steam-boats with the
western metropolis, they are now limited to the supplying of Ayr,
and the neighbouring villages. The consequence is, that the fisher-
men are generally poor, and are no longer the repectable class of
men which they were in more prosperous days.

	AYR.                    G


