
50                             LANARKSHIRE.

ture of winter, pulverizes the seed-furrow, and extracts noxious mat-
ter from the air; but in May and June it retards vegetation and en-
genders the grub worn. At this season, in consequence of copi-
ous evaporations arising from the high comparative temperature of
the German Ocean, (which in winter is three degrees colder, and
in summer five degrees warmer than the Atlantic,) thick easterly
hears occasionally reach us from the coast. When the polar re-
gions become warmer, the westerly winds get the ascendancy; and
in winter they temper the air, sweep before them pestilential va-
pours, and import from the green forests of America gases health-
ier than those arising from the putrid vegetation of our own coun-
try. The prevalence of these winds is indicated by the direction
in which the branches of trees are inclined; and to shelter their na-
ked trunk, nature has given a great-coat of cup, herbaceous, and
thread-like lichen on its windward side, and on the westward skirts
of our plantations.
	Climate.--Although most of the arable land lies 700 feet above
the level of the sea, yet, as it is partially sheltered by nature and
art, and as the rays of the sun are reflected from the hills on both
sides of the valley, the temperature of the atmosphere is not so
low as might have been expected. The average of the whole year
may be about 45&deg; of Fahrenheit. In other words, our climate is
more affected by its relative than its real altitude; and, to a certain
extent, verifies the observation, that a height of 600 feet is equal
to no more than a degree of latitude to the north. As the soil
is now generally dry, and as the air is not too moist, epidemic dis-
tempers are little known. Our artificial water-meadows may still
create some unhealthy exhalations, and induce mildew on grain in
harvest, but the extensive agricultural improvements lately effect-
ed have substituted a purer air "for the putrid effluvia of the large
moss to the eastward;" doubled the husbandman's return not "in
late" but in seasonable harvests, and rendered "early frost in Au-
gust and September, which oft-times formerly destroyed the crop
in one night" of late years almost unknown. That the climate of
this parish has been meliorated, and that agricultural improvements
have operated to a certain extent in that result, cannot be denied.
That the seasons are milder is also probable, and may be partly
accounted for. But how in the time of the Romans this country
should have been so much  warmer than France, as ripen vines,
when in Gaul they could not be cultivated; how trees of enor-
mous dimensions grew of old spontaneously where the ingenuity


