
	                           JEDBURGH.                         23

gust (O. S.); the third, or Rood-fair, on the 25th of September,
or the first Tuesday after, if the 25th is Saturday, Sunday, or
Monday; and the fourth, or St Leonard's, on the first Tuesday of
November (O. S.).  These fairs are for horses and cattle.  There
are hiring markets for servants at Whitsunday and Martinmas.
In the year 1828, monthly markets were established for sheep and
cattle at the request of the farmers' club.   To encourage the de-
sign, the magistrates dispensed with the exaction of custom, and
the markets have succeeded beyond expectation.  They are held
on the third Saturday of every month, commencing with January
and ending with May.  There is besides in this parish a great fair
for sheep, which is held at Rink, about seven miles from Jedburgh, on
July l2, and October 15.  This fair is attended by a great concourse
of farmers, and dealers in wool, both from Scotland and England.
 Inns and Alehouses.--There are sixteen inns in Jedburgh, and
forty-seven alehouses, and in the country part of the parish three
alehouses; but the road trustees having resolved to grant a licence
to toll-keepers, there will be in the country an increase of the num-
ber of alehouses, and it is to be feared of dissipation.
   Fuel.-- The fuel chiefly used is coal, which is procured from the
north of England at the expense of from 8 1/2d. to 10d. per cwt.
   Coals were lately found at Whitelee, about twelve miles distant
from Jedburgh, but only in sufficient quantities for supplying the
lime-kilns.

           VI.--MISCELLANEOUS  OBSERVATIONS.
 Since the period when the last Statistical Account was written,
the state of the parish has been much improved,--various kinds of
manufactures have been introduced which were then unknown in
this district,--farms which were entirely pastoral now bear luxuriant
crops,--the fields have been neatly enclosed with hedges,--waste
ground has been planted--the style of dwelling-houses, both in the
town and in the country, is now vastly superior,--the means of commu-
nication have been greatly enlarged,--the population has been near-
ly doubled,--and all classes seem to enjoy a large share of the com-
forts of civilized society.
 The direct line from London to Edinburgh passes through this
parish, and, as the commercial relations of Scotland render rapi-
dity of communication every day more desirable, it is to be hoped
that those local and private interests, which, have hitherto oppos-
ed the establishment of this as the line of the London mail, will
soon yield to the exigencies and advantage of the public
   October 1834.


