
                  	TYNRON.				 481

was built in the year 1785; and two additions have been built at
different times,--which render it a comfortable and very commodi-
ous house. The extent of glebe, including houses and garden, is
fourteen acres, three roods, which may be valued at L. 30 a-year.
The stipend is 16 chalders, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
ments. Number of families attending the Established church, 73;
number of persons, 246; number of families attending Dissenting
chapels, 28; number of persons attending the same, 67. Divine
service at the Established church is tolerably well attended, more
especially in summer. The average number of communicants in
the Established church, 170. Average amount of church collec-
tions about L. 15 a-year.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish, the one paro-
chial, the other endowed. The branches of education taught in
both schools, are Latin, Gree, English, writing and arithmetic.
Feels for Latin and Greek per quarter, 4s.; English, 2s.; writing
and arithmetic, 2s. 6d. The parochial schoolmaster has L. 25,
13s. 4d. of salary. He has a school-house, a comfortable dwelling-
house, and one rood of good land. He does not receive more than
L. 4 a-year of fees.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of persons receiving
parochial aid varies according to circumstances; but may be about
20. The late Mr Wilson, in the former Statistical Account, says,
"beside the weekly collections made for the poor, amounting to
L. 11 or L. 12 annually, there is a small piece of landed property
belonging to them yielding L. 7 of yearly rent. The number of
poors' names in the roll is 12 or 14. They have a pretty com-
fortable subsistence, and not one is known to go beyond the bounds
of the parish as an itinerant beggar." Only one beggar is yet
known to go beyond the bounds of the parish, and the farm of
Cairney Croft, the landed property above alluded to, is now let for
L. 20 of yearly rent. With regard to Cairney Croft, the Rev. Mr
Rae makes the following remarks: "Brownrig of Cairney Croff,
its antiquity. It is reported that King Robert Bruce, being in the
beginning of his reign in bad circumstances, in regard the most of
the gentry in the country having sworn fealty to King Edward
Longshanks, had not yet joined him,--he came incognito in a
morning to Cairney Croft, and asked Brownrig's wife if she could
give him any meat, for he was very hungry; to which she returned
that she had nothing but greddan (meal and goat's milk,) and he


