
24                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

below the surface of the ground were found in the farm of Milton;
the skeleton of a man lay near them.
	A kind of stone coffin was lately discovered near Galtway old
church: it contained some black mould, and small fragments of
bones, which at one time must have formed a portion of the body
of one of the primitive inhabitants.
	Not long since, a cup of Roman metal was found in the trench
at Castiedykes, near the town it is in the possession of Mr Train,
Castledouglas.
	About the beginning of last century, as some men were engag-
ed in making ditches, they turned up a plate of pure gold near
Drummore Castle, for which they obtained L.20.
	Quantities of silver coin have been found, within the last twenty
years, on the farm of Lochfergus. The pieces were of the reign
of Edward I. Small coins called "Charles' placks" have been
often found in and near the town of Kirkcudbright.
	Modern Buildings.--There are two churches in the parish,
namely, the parish church and the United Secession church. The
first, a large and elegant building, capable of containing a congre-
gation of upwards of 1500, was completed in 1838, at an expense
of about L. 7000.  The burgh possesses one portion of it, the
landward heritors another, and the incorporated trades a third.
The funds of the burgh were saved to a considerable amount by
private donations; and the trades received the stim of L.150, which
was left them by Miss Gordon of Threavemains, to enable them
to erect a gallery in the new church, for the accommodation of
themselves and their families. To the burgh belong 608 sittings,
200 of which are let at 2s. 6d. each, L.25; 278 at 2s. each,
L.27, 16s.; 130 at 1s. 6d. each, L.9, 15s.; total rent, L.62, 1ls.
There are 24 free sittings belonging to the burgh. No rent is ex-
acted for seats belonging to the landward beritors. The church
has a spire of considerable height attached to it, containing an
excellent clock, and a very fine bell, both presents from the late
James Lennox, Esq. of Dalskairth: the site of the building was
given by Lord Selkirk.
	The chapel belonging to the United secession church is a neat
and comfortable edifice. It was completed in 1822, and cost
about L.950.
	The foundation stones of the jail and academy were laid with
masonic honours on the 8th day of May 1815. The Jail, which
is of a castellated form, rises in some parts of the structure to the


