
     Statistical Account

sown grass.  The ploughs employed by the farmers are the
common Scotch plough and Small's plough.  The latter was
introduced here within these last 10 years.  When the ground
is limed, 5 or 6 bolls of lime, mixed with dung or compost,
generally suffices for an acre; but a much larger quantity is
found necessary on land taken in from moors.  Upon part of
the estate of Clune, about 50 bolls per acre were used, when
it was first improved.  Inclosures have made great progress
within the last 30 years, above four 5ths of the arable land be-
ing already inclosed, and the remainder in the near prospect
of being so.  The fences are partly stone walls teethed with
lime, partly ditches, with thorn hedges on the top, which
thrive pretty well.  The quantity of ground, laid out under
the different crop. cannot be exactly ascertained, but the fol-
lowing is nearly the average of the arable land.  Under clover
and rye-grass one 5th, wheat one 10th, barley one 5th, oats
one 4th, pease one 5th, turnips one 10th, potatoes one 8th, flax
one 20th, and, in field cabbage, a few falls of ground*; besides
about one 4th kept in pasture.  There is no common, even the
moor land being exactly divided among the different proprie-
tors.  Within there 2 years there has been more than usual
attention paid to the growth of flax, several acres being an-
nually laid out in that way, by persons who make it their
business to attend to it during summer.  The produce, even
when the crop is but indifferent, is fully adequate to the con-
sumption of the inhabitants.  When plentiful, it is exported
in considerable quantities.  Barley is sent to Culrofs, Borrow-
stownness, Alloa, and Dunsermline, where it is manufactur-
ed into malt.  Meal and potatoes are also sent to Dunserm-
line.

   Minerals.-This parish is plentifully supplied with coals,
there

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is no rye sown in the parish, nor any black oats; although consider-
able quantities of the lalter were sown last century in the N. E. part of the
parish.


