
212			AYRSHIRE.

weeks in spring, a cold withering easterly wind prevails, which, being
often accompanied by frost, proves very detrimental to vegetation.
From its proximity to the Atlantic, the climate is moist,--the rains
are frequent, heavy, and long-continued, sometimes lasting for se-
veral weeks with little intermission, especially during the months
of September and October. The most prevalent diseases as con-
nected with the climate are consumption and rheumatism. The
parish is, however, healthy, there being commonly about twenty
persons alive above eighty years of age.
	Hydrography.--There are a considerable number of springs in
the parish, but none of them are remarkable for the quantity of
water they discharge. The most important is at Loans Bridge, a
chalybeate spring. A strong mineral spring, near Maulside, has
long been noted for its salutary effects in scorbutic disorders. The
valley of the Garnock appears to have been, at a remote period,
a lake stretching from Dalry to Johnstone, in Renfrewshire, and of
which the lochs of Kilbirnie and Castle Semple are the remains.
In corroboration of this supposition, trees have been found im-
bedded in the soil, which were apparently deposited by the ac-
tion of water. The river Garnock, which has its source in the
parish of Kilbirnie, on the confines of the county with Renfrew-
shire, flows through this parish for seven miles, four of which are
in a south-west direction. Below the manse it makes a sudden
bend to the south, in which direction it flows for the remainder of
its course to the sea, into which it falls at Irvine. It flows through
a fertile plain, over a bed of gravel.  Its declivity in this parish
does not average above eight feet per mile, and in some places its
motion is hardly perceptible. Its average breadth is about twenty
yards. In its course through this parish it receives a number of
tributary streams, the chief of which are the Rye and Caaf. The
former stream rises in the parish of Largs, and flows through an
open moorish country, till about three miles above its junction with
the Garnock. It then enters a deep romantic glen, the banks of
which are beautifully wooded, in which it rushes impetuously for
two miles. It then enters the plain of Garnock, and joins that
river after a course of nine miles. The Caaf has its source on
the boundaries of Kilbride and Largs. On its descending from
the moorish country, a dike of basaltic rock crosses its course,
through which it has scooped a narrow passage, in which it rushes
with inconceivable velocity. Its banks are almost destitute of
wood till near its junction with the Garnock, when it enters a deep


