
98                        ORKNEY.

their house and yard, they paid a rent of L. 5, 6s., and were left
wholly at liberty, the only condition of their holding being the re-
gular payment of the rent. At same time, he offered, if they
chose to work help, to give them the same price for their labour,
L.3 to L.4 per ton, which had been formerly paid to the principal
tenant; and such was the effect of this free system, that men con-
sidered notoriously slothful were converted into willing and in-
dustrious labourers, and not only was the quantity of help greatly
increased, but he never wanted good and efficient workmen to hire
at fair wages for his farming improvements. Mr Laing's example
has been followed with success in the parish of Burness, where, by
doing away with all services, by a moderate allowance for improve-
ments, a little nursing, and care in helping the small tenants
to dispose of thier produce to advantage, an addition to the land
rents, and a most evident improvement in the condition and ha-
bits of the occupiers, has been effected.
   Crops.-By far the greater part of the arable lands in these pa-
rishes are still cropped alternately with bear and oats, the enormous
supply of sea-weed for manure keeping up the fertility of the land
under this scourging system. Potatoes are, however, more exten-
sively cultivated than formerly, and on some farms, turnips and
sown grasses are introduced into the rotation. The bear is thin-
coated, and meals well, being white in the flour. The weight
does not average more than 42 lbs. per bushel, unless where com-
post has been applied, when it has reached 48 lbs. per bushel.
Turnip and rye-grass seeds are raised, and are found to give great
satisfaction, when sown in the southern counties. The soil is ad-
mirably adapted to turnip husbandry, and most splendid crops of
this valuable esculent may now be seen growing, where a short time
since, rabbits alone bad possession of the soil. In many places
throughout the island, where steadings have been of old, large
heaps of rich mould are to be found. These seem to have been the
accumulations of the farm manure of many a year, during time
when the people were too indolent or too prejudiced to apply it to
ibe soil; and it is even in the recollection of the writer, that a te-
nant of a large farm held his cottars bound, as a service once a
yea , to clean his dung court, and convey the manure as a nuisances
to the sea-beach, aid he has witnessed the wilful burning of the
straw, from which forty holes of grain had been thrashed.
   In, improving the sand links or rabbit warren, thse accumula-
tions become a must important auxillary, for being trenched and


