
 			   BORGUE.                           51

ponent substances, the granite stones or boulders more particu-
larly, must of necessity have been borne to their present position
from a distance of several miles, as the nearest granite moun-
tains are these in Girthon and Twynholm, eight miles distant.
6. The stones both of a larger and smaller size, have that round-
ed form which commonly results from the action of water.
	It would be presumptuous in one, but slightly acquainted with
the elements of geology, to theorize as to the origin of this de-
scription of hills, or the causes by which their singular formation
has been determined. It does, however, appear to the writer,
that the subject is well worthy the careful consideration of those
who are more conversant with this interesting science. Nor does
it seem rash to conjecture, that a rigid scrutiny of the phenomena
which they present in various parts of the country, would reflect
light on the action to which the earth's surface has in former times
been subjected, and the agents by which that action was caused.
	The soil now mentioned might seem well suited for tillage, be-
ing smooth and unbroken. In reality, it is found the most worth-
less of our Galloway lands. So tenacious is the subsoil, consist-
ing of a hard gravelly clay, without any alluvial matter, that the
superfluous moisture in wet weather cannot sink through it; nor
again in dry seasons does the moisture make its way upwards to the
roots of the plants. Draining, after the manner of tile-draining,
has lately been tried by a spirited proprietor, and appears likely
to be attended with favourable results.
	Mines.-- An unsuccessful attempt was recently made to discover
copper ore on the estate of Earlston. Iron was found, but not
of a rich description.
	Botany.--As already stated, there is here a very considerable
variety of soil and exposure. The sea coast presents an excellent
field for investigation, and the broken nature of the land affords
facilities to the botanist, which a more closely cultivated district
would deny. The following may serve as a specimen of the Flora
of Borgue, all the plants mentioned, being met with in greater or
less abundance in different parts of the parish.

Crithwum maritimum    Glaucium luteum          Sympohytum officinale
Crambe maritima       Artemisia maritima       Chelidonium majus
Eryngium maritimum    Sanguisorba officinalis  Berberis vulgaris
Euonymus Europeous    Salsola Kali             Malva sylvestris
Scilla verna          Solanum Dulcamara        -- moschata
Statice Limonium      Arum maculatum           Geranium sanguincum,

and most of the more common varieties.


