
78                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

trict to the Atlantic Ocean, and the prevalence of the south and
south-west winds, would render the climate rainy and variable.
Although it be not so dry as some districts of Scotland, the co-
pious exhalations from this vast reservoir of water are in some
measure intercepted, and the violence of these winds moderated
by the interposition of Galloway and the north of Ireland. For
wildness of climate, its situation is peculiarly favourable. Besides
having a southern aspect, the ranges of hills that environ it on the
north and east afford shelter from those cold and piercing winds
that predominate in spring, and annoy other parts of the kingdom.
The salubrity of the climate may, to a certain extent, be ascribed
to the improved system of agriculture and draining introduced a
considerable, number of years ago. From that cause intermittent
fevers have now entirely disappeared. As a proof of the salubrity
of the climate I may mention, that of 28 individual who died in
1881, 20 had attained to upwards of 70 years of age. Pulmonary
complaints, however, are not uncommon in this district; and cases
of inflammation occasionally occur.
	Hydrography.--The water is in general extremely pure, as it
flows from springs running through freestone, limestone, and tran-
sition rock. The only foreign ingredient some of the springs con-
tain, is a little iron in solution by carbonic acid. In the imme-
diate vicinity of Closeburn Castle, a spring issuing from a peat-
moss is impregnated with a small quantity of sulphuretted hydro-
gen, and has been of signal advantage in cutaneous complaints.
The river Nith forms the western boundary; and the Cample
forms the northern boundary of the parish. There are several
streams, the most remarkable of which is Crickup. By falling over
a precipice 90 feet in height, it forms a cascade, known by the
name of Grey's mare's tail. After heavy rains, it has the appear-
ante of an unbroken sheet of water, and is seen at the distance of
many miles. This, stream, possessing some romantic scenery, is
visited by stranger, The place of the greatest interest is Crock-
up Linn. The water in its passage over a hill of old red sandstone
has in the course of ages cut a deep ravine, so narrow at the top,
that in many places one may leap across it. The sides of this
ravine, overhung by rich foliage, and presenting rocks of the most
picturesque forms, the noise and agitation of the water underneath,
produce a singularly betook themselves for safety. The author
of Waverly has given it additional interest, by describing it as a



