
                            PARISH OF FOGO.

            PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                    THE REV. GEORGE M'LEAN, MINISTER.

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Extent, Boundaries.-This parish extends from E. N. E to W.
S. W., 5 miles in length by 1 1/2 in breadth on an average; and is
nearly rectangular. Of course, its superficial extent may be about
7 1/2 square miles or 4800 acres. It is bounded by the parish of
Greenlaw on the west; Polwarth on the north-west; Edrom on
the north and east; Swinton on the south-east; and Eccles on
south and south-west. The small river of Blackadder, which en-
ters the parish from the west, intersects it for about half its length,
and then becomes the boundary between it and Edrom.
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface of the parish may be
described as consisting of two long parallel ridges of small eleva-
tion, separated by the river,-the northmost commencing at a small
rivulet which runs through a narrow marsh and separates it from
Polwarth,-the south ridge sloping gradually into a level of consi-
derable breadth. The higher ground, which is a deep black loam,
is considered most valuable and productive; the low and flat-ground
being thinner and having a tilly and stiff bottom. The highest
ground may be 100 feet above the sea.
   Meteorology.-On this head it may be only mentioned that, as
the parish lies about two miles south of Langton-edge, which is the
commencement of the Lammermoor range, there are frequent
showers upon that range, while there are none in this parish; but,
from the nature of the soil, which is retentive of moisture, the pa-
rish is less injured by summer's drought than many other places. It
suffers more from a wet than a dry season. It may be also mention-
ed, that the winds which prevail here are chiefly from the north
and east in the spring, with cold and chilling fogs or rain; during
the rest of the year, the winds generally range from south to north-
west. A violent gale from the south-west is almost always accom-


