
   2                              NAIRNSHIRE.

   count of some grudge that subsisted between the families.  At
   the place of Easter Geddes, are the remains of an old cbapel,
   with a burying-ground around it. In this chapel is the burying-
   place of the family of Kilravock; and here they have been inter-
   red for many generations back, perhaps ever since the Roses came
   to this part of Scotland.  How long the Roses were in possession
   of the lands of Geddes, previous to the marriage of the Laird of
   Geddes with Mary de Bosco, lady and heiress of Kilravock, can-
   not now with certainty be ascertained, as the writs of the family,
   relative to that estate, were destroyed in the cathedral church of
   Elgin, when it was consumed by fire.  Lady Kilravock and her
   husband, Hugh Rose of Geddes, obtained a charter (posterior to
   the loss of the writs above-mentioned), from King John Baliol,
   in the year 1293, confirming to them and to their heirs, the lands
   of Geddes and Kilravock.
      Parochial Registers.-There is a register of baptisms, and one
   of marriages, both commencing 5th March 1708; and a register
   of discipline, commencing 5th February 1768.
      Land-owners.-These, with their respective valuations, are as
   follows: The Earl of Cawdor, L.1108, 17s. 1d.; William McIn-
   tosh, Esq. of Geddes, L.810; Hugh Rose, Esq. of Kilravock,
   L.518; Wiiliam Robertson, Esq. of Househill, L.200; James
   A. Grant, Esq. of Viewfield, L.138; Henry Robertson, Esq. of
   Newton, L.130.
      Mansion-Houses.-These are, Geddes House, the grounds
   about it much ornamented by planting and sbrubberies; Viewfield,
   Newton, Firhall, Auchrhea, Milbank, Ivybank, Househill.

<FOOTNOTE>Concerning the family of Kilravock, it would be needless, on this occasion, to
   say any thing particular. The figure they have made in the world, in various de-
   partments in life, their taste for the fine arts, for literature, for politeness, hospitality,
   &c. is too well known to require the pen of a p`negyrist. Geddes probably derives
   its name from Geelda, a Pictish saint, to whose memory, on this spot, it seems a
   place of worship was dedicated.
      The charter of foundation of thd Chapel of Easter Geddes, part of the walls of
   which is still extant. and granted by Hugh Rose of Kilravock, bears date 1473.
   This chapel was dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and endowed with L.5 Scots of sti-
   pend, together with a small croft, as a glebe, and on which to erect a manse.  The
   priest or chaplain was to perform daily offices not only for the soul of the founder,
   but also for the souls of his predecessors, and of his heirs and successors for ever.
   The bull privileges for said chapel is dated at Rome, 26th April 1475, in the
   forth year of Pope Sextus the Fourth.
      The site of the constabulary is still visible in the town of Nairn.  The Lairds of
   Calder were, for a series of time, high constables, aid heritable sheriffs of the county.
   Notice is taken of the Kebback-stone, in the Statistical Account of the parish of Ar-
   dersier.   In the north east corner of this parish, is a place called the King's Steps.
   Even traditions does not say on what account this royal appellation was affixed to
   this spot of ground.  There is an excellent quarry of freestone, below flood-mark,
   easily wrought, and no contemptible quality.  There are sole chalybesie springs
   of water, but not of such consequence as to deserve a particular description.


