
	482                       BENFREWSHIRE.

        two parishes having risen to 15,000, and the paupers being more nu-
	merous in the old than in the new parish, the heritors and kirk-
	session of the former held a special meeting for the purpose of
	devising the means of checking the growth of pauperism, or, if
	necessary, of adding to the permanent revenue for supplying the
        wants of the poor. The account-books of the old parish, previous
	to the year 1807, have been mislaid or destroyed-and a similar
	fate has befallen those of the new parish for a considerable period
        subsequent to 1791. But the compiler has now before him the
	account books of that parish from its erection in 1741 to the year
	1791-from which it is evident, that for many years the kirk-ses-
	sion had been adding to stock; and that at the latest of these pe-
	riods they were able to meet the growing demands upon them out
	of a liberal collection at the church door, and the other ordinary
	sources, without having recourse to any unusual expedient.
	   When at length the wants of the poor appeared to the two
	kirk-sessions to be greater than they could provide for by the or-
	dinary means, both they and the heritors seem to have been ex-
        tremely reluctant to have recourse to a legal assessment. First of
	all, it was attempted to make up the deficiency by a voluntary or
	self-impossed a*essment on heritors, superiors, feuars, and others.
	Afterwards, they had recourse to quarterly collections at the
	church door, and voluntary subscriptions united, which for some
        time produced a very considerable revenue. But both these modes
	of raising the necessary supplies ultimately failed of success, in
	consequence, as was alleged, of the burden being unequally im-
	posed; and in the ydar 1812, the kirk-session concurred in re-
	questing the heritors to make provision for the poor by an assess-
        ment in terms of law. In 1814 the system of legal assessment
        causes into operation. In 1817, an Act of Parliament was passed,
	uniting the three parishes; (the East parish was then erected) so
        far as respected the management of the poor funds. That act
	rendered it, imperative on the heritors and elders of the said pa-
	rishes, to meet at least twice a year, to receive statements of the
	receipts and disbursements of the several kirk-sessions, and at one
	of these meetings to assess the heritors and other inhabitants of
	the three parishes, and out of the money so levied, to pay to the
	kirk-treasurer of each parish what the meeting may judge neces-
	sary, together with the income of the parish from other sources,
	for supplying the wants of the poor.
           The following excerpt from the records of the new parish ses-


