
     Statistical Account

as they do not reckon it a lucrative crop; and besides the
want of winter-herding discourages them from any attempts
to raise it.  Some of them begin to make hay, as there is
a ready market for it at 6 d. the stone.  200 stone, at 20 lb.
Amsterdam, is accounted a good crop, and 160 a medium
one, the acre.  Of the different kinds of grain the produce
has already been stated.  The parish serves itself with
grain, and exports 2000 bolls yearly.  The valued rent is
L. 6395 Scots, and the real rent may be from L. 4000 to
L. 5000 Sterling; but, like most parishes in Scotland, where
the rent is paid in money and victual, it must vary with
the price of grain*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices of Grain and Provisions.-The grain of crop 1792, during the
winter season was very moderate.  Since April meal has risen to 15 s. and
barley to 18 s. the boll.  Bee and mutton 3 1/2 d. the lb a duck 10 d. a hen
8 d. a chicken 3 d. eggs 2 1/2 d. the duzen, butter 8 d. the lb. at 24 oz.
English; cheese 5, s. the stone, at 24 lb. English.

   Wages and Price of Labour.-Men servants employed in husbandry get
from L. 6 to L. 8; women from L. 2 to L. 3; heard from L. 1 to L. 2;
a tailor 8 d. and his meat; a da-labourer from 10 d. to 1 s.; carpenters
1 s. 4 d. to 1 s. 6 d.; and slaters 2. s. without meat.

   Services and Customs.-The services, though not in general abolished,
are, according to my information, exacted with such moderation, as not to
be esteemed a grievance by the tenants.  Custom fowls to a certain extent
are payabel when required.  Restriction to mills prevail.  Leet-peats, as
they are called, (measuring 8 feet in length, 12 broad, and 12 high). must
be paid in kind when demanded.  Long carriages, as they are termed,
that is, carriages to a specified distance from the proprietor's house, are
sometimes exacted:  And in seed-time and harvest, as well as at hay-
making, certain services are required.  For all there the tenant are liable,
and they are paid without murmuring, because never exacted to the extent
mentioned in their lease.  Still, howerver, the very name implies bondage,
because services, being in some measure arbitrary, must ever be reckoned


