
436                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

     Caerlanrig Chapel.-This chapel is situated in the upper part
of the parish, and is intended for the accommodation not only of
the inhabitants of that district of Cavers, but also of those in the
upper part of the parish of Hawick.  The bounds pertaining to
it are about ten miles long, and, on an average, nine broad.  The
chapel is centrically situated.  It is said to be of 200 years standing
and upwards, as a Protestant place of worship, and has been thrice
built on different sites.  It seems to have superseded the Roman Ca-
tholic chapel, which stood here in the burial-ground, and which
is still preserved and occupied as such: or else it was found neces-
sary for the accommodation of the inhabitants of the district when
the kirk at Old-Northhouse was removed, or done away.  At first,
and until a chaplain was appointed to the charge, the minister of
Cavers was under the inconvenient necessity of performing pub-
lic duty at Caerlanrig chapel, one Sunday every month.  It is not
distinctly known when a chaplain was first appointed, and this prac-
tice discontinued. The present chapel was erected by the contri-
butions of the inhabitants of the district, about forty years ago,
the ground, the wood, slate, and lime being given by his Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch.  It is at present in good repair, but
found to be too small.  The seats are all free, unless in so far
as they are appointed to, and appropriated by, beads of familhes.
As no endowment has been procured, and no regular stipend as-
signed, the chaplain is not ordained, and the chapel consequently
is not constituted as a Chapel of Ease.  In so wild and extensive
a district, this occasions very great inconveniency, both to the
preacher and the people, as well, as to the ministers of the two pa-
rishes respectively to which the chapel belongs.  The number of souls
dependent upon this chapel for religious instruction is 700, 216 of
wbom reside in the parish of Hawick, and the rest, of course, in
the parish of Cavers.  Others, also, from the outskirts of the neigh-
bourino, parishes, frequently attend, as being nearer to the chapel
than to their own churches.
     The annual allowance to the chapel minister is, on an average,
L. 52-L. 25 of which is given by way of bounty by his Grace the
Duke of Buccleuch; L. 5 by James Douglas, Esq. of Cavers;
and L. 3 by the minister of Hawick.  The rest is contributed by
the farmers, and other inhabitants of the district, each giving as
he thinks proper, or finds convenient.
     As no manse or dwelling-house bad hitherto been annexed to
the chapel, the Duke of Buccleuch, about two years ago, appoint-


