

224                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

required to be filled with melted alum every time the stones are
dressed, which is a constant expense.
   More than three hundred pairs of these mill-stones have been
made from the Abbey Craig rock, both for the manufacture of
flour and for distillery purposes, for which they are also peculiarly
suitable; they cost from L.12 to L.20 a pair, at the time a pair
of French mill-stones cost from L.45 to L.60; but since the es-
tablisbment of peace with France, the French mill-stones have
fallen very low in price, while the cost of the Abbey Craig stones
remains the same as formerly, so that there is now comparatively
little demand for the latter.
   Zoology.--Tbe zoology of this parish differs but little from that
of the rest of Scotland. The Ochil hills abound in rabbits. Foxes
are not numerous. Game of the ordinary sorts is abundant.
There are a good many grouse to be found on the hills, and a few
pheasants on the low grounds and plantations. Squirrels are very
numerous in the woods of Airtbrey. Hawks of various kinds are to
be met with, and the blue hunting falcon occasionally makes his nest
on Dunmyat. Deer are to be met with on the bills, but they are
not numerous. The bill streams abound in trout; and both the
Devon and Allan are frequented by lovers of the angle. The sal-
mon of the Forth are well known; but there is no fishing-station in
this parish.
   Botany.--The following list of rare or interesting phaenogamous
plants found in the parish of Logie, is copied from Mr Forrest's
Report, formerly alluded to:

Agroatis canina        Lysimachia Nummularia    Gnaphalium germanicum
Vaccinium uliginosum,    Seduni villosum        Saxifraga granulata
-------  Oxycoccos       Juncus glaucus         Anthyllis vulnerata
Solidago Virgaures       Agrimonia Eupatoria    Malva moachata
Poe aquatica             Reseda Luteola         Lychnis viscaria
Sparganium simplex       Mentha rubra           Cistus helianthemum
Symphytum officinale     Tanacetuni vulgare     Epilobium angustifolium
Sium latifolium          Ribes nigrum           Arenaria verna
Briza media            Ononis arvensis          Echium vulgara
Juniperus communis       Scrophularia nodosa    Cichorium Intybus
Ulex nanus             Aster Tripolium          Chrysanthemum segetum
Fumaria claviculata      Valeriana officinalis  Scabiosa arvensis
Scirpus, paucifforus     Caltha palustris       Asperula odorata
Convallaria majalis      Digitalis purpurea     Rosa arvensis
Anagallis arvensis       Atropa Belladona       Geum urbanum

<FOOTNOTE>This plant is found in great abudance at the foot of Dummyat.  It was used
in dyeing woollen stuffs of a yellow colour.
  The variety with the white flower is found on the Ochil new Menstrie.
  A bounds on the Abbey Craig. The berries of them plant are highly poisonous.
The effect are best counteracted by drinking freely of vinegar.


