
160                       FORFARSHIRE.

of three-score and ten and even fourscore years. In the district
of Glenprosen, the population of which amounts to 295, there are
ten persons above eighty years of age; and some time ago I noticed
four persons converting together on the street whose united ages
amounted to 333. In the deaths amounted to 1 in 62--of
which 34 averaged 73, and 13, 80. There is an instance of a
married couple who have lived together 64 years. One of their
daughters has had twenty children.
	The heaviest rains come from the east and south-east. I be-
lieve that as much rain falls in Kirriemuir as in most of the parishes
on the west coast of Scotland; but we have more of it at a time
than they have who get more or less of it every day. I understand
that the smallest quantity of rain falls in some of the western isles,
the inhabitants of which seldom see the sun, from its being enve-
loped in a continual fog. The weather with us has been observed
for many years to continue steadily of the same kind for certain pe-
riods of time.
	Geology.--The greater part of the southern division of the pa-
rish consists partly of the old red sandstone formation, and partly
of red schistose sandstone, with occasional rocks of the trap family.
At Shielhill a vein of trap cuts the strata in an easterly direction;
and at the bridge of Prosen a bed of conglomerate forms the first
line of eminences along the north sidd nf the valley of Strathmore.
Under the conglomerate is a stratum of gray roofing-slate, con-
tainingsome vegetable impressions, as in the corresponding beds of
the Sidlaw Hills. But the most interesting feature in the geology
of the district is a dike of serpentine on the farm of Balloch, de-
scribed by Mr Lyell in the third volume of the Edinburgh Journal
of Science. The direction of the dike is about east and west; it
is nearly vertical, but with a slight inclination to the north; and is
considered by Mr Lyell as interesting in showina, the geological
connection between greenstone and serpentine, and the manner in
which stratified rocks are affected by their contiguity to dikes of
serpentine. In Glenprosen the primitive formation appears to
consist of mica-schist, bornblende slate, and gneiss, containing
rook-crytal and garnets. Limestone is quarried, and burnt with
peat in small rude kilns.
	Soil.--In the southern division of the parish, the soil may in
general be classed under two distinct heads,--a margin of sand
and gravel be chiefly of the latter, contiguous to the water on
the north, and varying from half a mile to one mile in breadth,
--stretching from the Prosen, acrosr the valley of the Carity,


