
			CRAWFORD.                          337

the reign of Elizabeth, several Englishmen and Germans obtained
commissions from the Scottish Regent, and employed a number of
men in the above work. They obtained very considerable quan-
tities, which were sent to Edinburgh, and coined into bonnet or
unicorn pieces. The manuscript records of these works, some of
which are to be found in the Advocates' Library at Edinburgh,
state that specimens of native gold were sometimes found, weigh-
ing from one to several ounces. In more recent times, the largest
found have not weighed more than two guineas, and these very
rare; at present it is only occasionally sought after, and then only
for the curious, as the amount got will not repay the expense of
collecting.
	Produce.-- The amount and value of the gross produce of the
parish may be thus stated:

<TABLE>
		Oats, including fodder,			L. 900
		Green crop,				   420
		Meadow and bog hay,			   437
		Dairy produce,				   785
		Young cattle,	    	 		   350
		Product of sheep,	                  9200
		Horse, 				            50
		Lead mines,	 			  6000
		Slate quarry,	  			   250
	         				      L. 18392
	The rental may be about L. 8500.

			V. -- PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Villages.--The village or town of Crawford contains a population
of 217. In ancient times, it enjoyed many privileges, and was un-
der the superintendence of a bailie of barony, and in later times
under what was called a birley court. It has now lost all its pri-
vileges,--a circumstance, perhaps, not much to be regretted. The-
inhabitants are chiefly employed in country labour. The nearest
market-towns are Moffat on the south, and Biggar on the north,
each about fifteen miles distant. Although it may thus be con-
sidered far from a market-town, yet it enjoys great advantages,
having daily communication with Glasgow, Edinburgh, Carlisle,
and Dumfries. The great road from Glasgow to Carlisle, and
that from Edinburgh to Dumfries by Biggar, runs through the
middle of the parish for the distance of thirteen or fourteen miles.
The mail-coach passes through the village daily to and from Glas-
gow, and a heavy coach runs daily between Edinburgh and Dum-
fries.
	The village of Leadhills has been already described. It has


