
<TABLE>
				GARVOCK.                      43

		Contents of the parish,              8466
		Cultivated,                    2900
		Improvable,                    2540
		Unimprovable,                  2926
		Under wood, planted             100
                                                 ,---- 8466

	The little wood which is in the parish, as has been already no-
ticed, is all planted, and great part of it being yet young, yields
but little annual income.

	Rent of Land.--The average rent of cultivated land through
the parish is about L.1 per imperial acre. No cattle or sheep
grazed in this parish by the season; all pasture grass being con
sumed by the cattle reared and fed by the occupiers of land, ex-
cept those who have some extent of bill-pasture, which is com-
monly let for three or four months from Martinmas to April, for
sheep from the Grampians, not by the acre, but by the piece, as
parties can agree, according to the extent and quality of the pas-
ture.

	Rate of Wages.--The average rate of wages for unmarried ser-
vants employed in agriculture, by the half-year, is, for a man L.5,
10s., for a boy, L.1, 15s., both summer and winter; for a woman
L.3 in summer, and L.2 in winter, with victuals, or 2 pecks of
meal a week for a man, and 1 1/2 peck for a boy, with one pint of
sweet milk daily. Married men get L.6 in money, 6 1/2 bolls meal,
one pint of sweet milk daily, a house and kail-yard for a year. In
harvest, a man gets L.2, 10s., a woman L.2, with bed and board;
reapers 3d. or 3 1/2d. a threave. But it has become quite common
now to cut down the crop with the scythe at 10s. per acre. A
labourer fets 1s. 8d. in summer, and 1s. 3d. in winter; a woman
gets 8d. in summer, and 6d. in winter, without victuals; masons
2s. in summer, and 1s. 10d. in winter; carpenters much the same,
both without victuals. Such has been the average of wages for
some time past, but now that manufactures and railroads have
started so briskly, wages are fast advancing. A plough costs L.3;
a cart L.15; a pair of harrows L.2; a gang of horse-shoes 3s.

	Live-Stock.--Farm or work-horses are generally bought in the
west country, but of late years a great part have been reared at
home. The long-horned cattle, so common formerly, are now
completely banished, and few are to be seen but the black dodded
Angus, with a mixture of Aberdeenshire breed. If calves begin to
show horns, they are cut when about six weeks old, which prevents
all after-growth. Black, or brown, or branded, are the most esteem-
ed colours. Indeed, cattle is the staple commodity here, and is



