
574                         ARGYLESHIRE.

the village of Dunoon, stretcliinc,,P as it does, including the villas
in its neighbourhood, to an extent of upwards of five miles from
the entrance of the Holy Loch, on its western side, onwards to-
wards the point of Toward; and by the village of Kilmun, on the
eastern shore of the Holy Loeb. The extent of sea coast has been
mentioned already. Its margin is generally tame, though not flat,
consisting chiefly of clayey slate, with certain interruptions. It
can scarcely be said that any rock occurs, except that which forms
the,bill on which Dunoon Castle stood; and the fritli is remark-
ably free, near its margin along this coast, from what seamen term
reefs, the unly ones occurring being two, the one near the coast at
the point formed by the Castle-hill of Dunoon, and the other to
the eastward of the point of Toward. On both these, beacons
have been erected of substantial masoii-work. The frith gene-
rally becomes shallow, as it approaches the coast. The principal
bay is the -Holy Loch, diverging from the Fritli of Clyde in a
north-westerly direction, and running inland about two tniles
from its entrance at Strone point. There is scarcely any other
curvature of the coastline forming any bay, properly so called,
except on a small scale at Ardentinny, and on both sides to the
north-east and south-west of the point formed by the Castle-hill
of Dunooii. The retreat of the tide exposes generally along
the coast a considerable extent of shingly beach and sand, especi-
ally at the inland extremity of the Holy Loch. -The principal
headlands are the point of Toward and the point of Strone, the
former opposite the island of Bute, and forming the angle where
the strait or channel, dividing that island from Argyleshire, d'
verges from tbe Frith of Clyde; the point of Strone also forming
the angle where both Loch Long and the Holy Loch commence
to take their respective names as locally distinguished from the
Frith of Clyde. On the point of Toward, a light-house, showing
a revolving light, has been erected, and has contributed greatly
since its erection to the safety of shipping when working up the frith.
    On the sides of Benmore, there are several very remarkable fis-
sures or chasms, running parallel with the acclivities of its sides,
varying in width from ten inches to fifteen feet. The one found
to be deepest, is about three feet wide. A stone dropped into it
(striking, of course, against the sides in its descent,) takes fifty-
eight seconds to reach the bottom. Its last.fall is distinctly heard
to be long, and sounds as if terminating in a body of water.
Climate -The mildness of the climate is indicated by the vi-
serous healthy growth of evergreen shrubbery, many kinds of


