
208                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

ated to the elders, which the principal hetitor lets at from 1s. 6d.
to 2s. 6d. per sitting, but the amount, or an equivalent, is annually
paid into the poor's funds, as afterwards stated, in the form of a do-
nation.
   The manse was built in 1766, but had an addition made to it
about thirty-six years ago. *  It is a damp, smoky, and cold house,
and too limited for the accommodation of a family.  The glebe
consists of between 7 and 8 acres of good arable land.  The
stipend is 16 chalders, half barley and meal, converted into money
at the fiars prices of Aberdeenshire, and L.8 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements.  There is a small chapel in the parish belong-
ing to a Baptist congregation, which contains between 70 and
80 sittings.  They have no fixed minister, but are supplied with
preaching once in the six weeks or two months, by one of the iti-
nerants of the Baptist Home Missionary Society.  They meet,
however, every Sabbath, when two of their own members alter-
nately preside.  The house belongs to one of themselves, and the
sittings are free, but L.1 is annually collected and paid to the
owner of the chapel in name of repairs.  "The number of mem-
bers and hearers meeting on the Sabbath (I quote from the writ-
ten report furnished to me by one of the presiding members) sel-
dom amounts to thirty persons."

<TABLE>
Number of families attending the Episcopal chapels at Longside and Peterhead, 17
          persons belonging to ditto,					            60
          families belonging to the United Secession,			             1
          persons belonging to ditto,					             2
          families belonging to the Baptist congregation,		             7
          persons belonging to ditto,					            14

   All the rest of the inhabitants attend the parish church.  The
average number of communicants for the last seven years is 645.
Of these about 25 come from neighbouring parishes, but a like
number from this parish communicate with other congregations.
There are several extraordinary collections made annually in the
church for charitable and religious purposes, which average from
L.7 to L.9 each.  In consequence of numerous local demands
during last year (1836) the kirk-session were obliged to make only
one collection for the Assembly's' schemes, and to divide it into
four parts.  It amounted only to L.12.  Whatever money is raised
by the kirk-session for religious objects, out of the parish, is paid
into the funds of the "Presbyterial Association of Deer."  The

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, the manse has been repaired and enlarge in the
most handsome manner by the heritors, and is now a very commodious and comfort-
able dwelling.-January 1840.


