
     Statistical Account

unreasonable to stretch this, so far as to hurt the manufac-
tures and revenues of Britain. 

   Extent of the Coal Country of Scotland-Though the account
of the coal has been extended, perhaps, too far, because it is
the most distinguishing feature in the ancient and present
state of this parish, yet I cannot conclude it without taking
notice, that the Stevenston mines are the northern limit of
the coal country on the west coast of Scotland; as the Bar-
geny mines, near Girvan, are the southern limit.  North of
Saltcoats there are no coal strata* to be found, to the ex-
tremity of the island.  South of Girvan, none, till you cross
the Solway Frith.  There will be two points, corresponding
to Saltcoats and Girvan, on the east coast:  And within there
four points the coal country of Scotland stretches, nearly
from the S. W. to the N. E. across the island; in breadth
between 30 and 40 miles +. 

<FOOTNOTE>

*I say strata Some veins of coal, or of a finer similar sub-
stance, from fix inches to two feet thick, have been found in the
island of Mull, at Cattle-Leod, and perhaps other places in the
Highlands, among veins of lead, between fissures of rocks,
and under what has been (perhaps erroneously) taken for
jointed lava or basaltes.  But these coal veins are so short and
inconsiderable, and the whole appearance of the metals, as they
call them (the other subterraneous strata):  is so different from
the appearance in a coal field, that the veins muff be considered
as singular phaenomena, which may, indeed, exercise the inge-
nuity of the naturalist, but upon which no solid practical con-
clusions as to the existence of coal can be founded.
+The north line begins at Saltcoats, or rather at Campbel-
ton (nearly S. W of us), runs through the parishes of Dalry,
Kilbirny, Lochwhmoch, Kilbarchan, crosses the Clyde about;
four miles west of Glasgow, passes through the east corner of
Dumbartonshire, takes in (probably) all Stirlingshire, Clack-
mannanshire, passes through the middle of Fife, along the high
country to the south of the river Eden, and ends somewhere
near Fiseness.  The south line begins near Girvan, goes on to


