
     Statistical Account

most imperceptible advantage.  These outworks have, within
these 20 years, been obliterated by the plough*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*More decisive proofs, however, lead us to believe, that the Romans hav
visited, and perhaps made some stay in this part of Scotland.  At Mill Of Buit-
tle, about half a mile west from the moat already mentioned, there were found
several years ago, three small silver coins (sesterces) one of TIBERIUS, one o
HADRIAN, and one of COMMODUS.  The two last of these coins were given, by
the present minister of Urr, to Mr. CARDONNEL, an ingenious antiquary of
Edinburgh.  In the estate of Mr. MAXWELL of Munshes, also about a mile
and a half S. W. of the moat, there were found, not long ago, several legionary
spears, made of a very hard kind of brass.  They were nearly of the same mo-
del with those in the Advocates, Library of Edinburgh; but the labouring peo-
ple who found them, mistaking the hard brass for a more precious metal, these
ancient weapons were mostly broken; though I believe some of them yet remain
entire at Munshes.  Upon the whole, it seems probable, that the moat of Urr
may have been in the possession of the Romans, though not an erection of theirs.
If it was a British town or sort, which the Romans converted into one of their
stativa, there would be in it sufficient space for accommodating a legion, with
auxiliaries.  More than half a mile to the E. of this spot, within the estate of
Redcastle, there is a rude block of granite, standing upright, in a plain field:
about 14 feet of the stone appear above the soil, and very probably 5 or
feet are funk in the earth; but what person, or what event this monument of
antiquity was meant to commemorate, no mortal pretends to say, tradition itself
being silent on the subject.

<UNREADABLE>

   If any thing were to be added to the small number of antiquities belonging to
this parish, we might mention the ruins of several Roman Catholic chapels,
situated within the ancient domain of the honourable family of HERRIES; and
the tomb-stones of those who perished by military execution, during the infatu-
ated reign of Charles II.  These stones have from time to time been kept in re-
pair, by the friends of that cause in which the sufferers perished; and whilst
there was a pretender to the throne of Britain, each of the above sepulchral
monuments was, to go government, as good as a considerable military force in this of the country. 

</UNREADABLE>


