
          KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                          323

we find the origin of a custom which has continued in other places
ever since, namely, the dedication of the trophies of war as orna-
ments, though very strange ones surely to Christian churches.
After the signal victory which Aidanus, installed by Columba be-
fore-mentioned, gained over the Picts and Scots, he sent the ban-
,ners of his vanquished enemies to Columba, to be preserved in
his abbey;' the victory obtained by Aidanus being at the time en-
tirely ascribed to the prayers of Columba. Kenneth Macalpine,
also, after the final overthrow of the Picts, devoted the sword and
armour of Dunstrenus, the Pictish monarch, to the church of Iona.
In 632, Oswald, King of Northumberland, applied here for a
bishop who might teach the Northumbriatis Christianity, and he
received a monk from the establishment, who was followed from
it by several others. In the year 765, Neil Frasach, King of
Ireland, abdicated his sovereignty and retired to Iona, where he
died; and, in 777, we read that Asglal, the son of Cutald, King
of Connaught, became a monk of Iona, where he died also; and
that Aulaf, King of Dublin, died during a pilgrimage to this island
in 980. Here, too, the young princes of Scotland and North-
umberland were sent to obtain the necessary rudiments of educa-
tion; and the island received frequent visits from the neighbouring
potentates of ancient times.
  For several centuries, the inhabitants of the monastery continued
tinder the absolute authority of their provost or abbot, exclusive
of any other; not subjected to vows, but governed alone by the
laws of Columba. This code of laws was denominated Riaghailt
Ii that is, the Rule of Iona, composed by him, and founded upon
the government and discipline of the apostolic chureber. During
this period, they were what is called Culdees; and all accounts
agree in their being renowned for their learning, their high con-
templative piety, find austerity of life. When afterwards the
Papal power was established in Iona, a great alteration took place;
and monachism having found its way there and into the rest of
Scotland, they became an abbey of Benedictines, which was of
the most baneful consequence both to their learning and virtue.
The doctrine of the Culdees, so far as we: may judge from that
of Columba, was at least comparatively pure. As he was himself
given much to the study of the Holy Scriptures, he taught his
disciples to confirm their doctrines by testimonies brought from
this unpolluted fountain, and declared that only to be the divine


