
     Of Northmaven.

   Antiquities.-There is a range of watch-houses, similar to
that described on Rona's hill, and many remains of burghs,
duns, or Picts' houses, but none of them of remarkable mag-
nitude, or entire.  Their demolition is owing to the waste of
time, and stones removed for the constructing of neighbouring
buildings.  The most entire of this kind is on the W. side of
the parish, situated on an holm in a loch, from which there
has been a narrow path laid with stones to the opposite bank;
the circular wall can be traced, and some steps of stairs, which
have ascended circularly in its interior.  The watch-houses
or ward-hills are built within fight of the sea, and one or
more within sight of each other.  Besides the use they might
be of in giving an alarm in times of danger, a probable inten-
tion of them might be, in times when shoals of small whales
were far more frequent on this coast than at present, to ob-
serve and collect the inhabitants in the vicinity, when any
flock of these appeared.  They are applied to that purpose to
this day in the Tawe islands.  There are several stupendous
caverns made by the force of the sea; in some, the wild pi-
geons nestle, and bring forth their young, others serve for
shelter to seals and otters.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The average value of annual
export.

<TABLE>

Ling, cod, and tusk, from 65 parish boats,   L. 2300   0   0
Oil                                              350   0   0
                                               -------------
                             Carried over,   L. 2650   0   0

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

twice a-year, but do not nestle here.  The kettywakes, and Thomas Norie birds,
nestle in great numbers, and come here in May, and return in August.  The
chalder, a bird which lives on lempots, which it separates from the rock very
dexterously with its long red bill, visits as in April, and leaves us in August.
The native birds are not peculiar to this parish, but common to the whole coun-
try, and must be referred to the accounts given by others.


