
     Statistical Account

lives.  There are in this parish, three students of divinity,
one preacher and two gown students*.

   Character, Morals, Genius, etc.-The inhabitants of this
district, during the last, and early part of this century, were
somewhat conspicuous for drinking and fighting with their
neighbours:  If any person in this parish, however mean his
situation, had received an injury or affront from-an inhabi-
tant of another parish; his neighbours considered themselves
bound to support him, and to average his quarrel: such con-
duct, however, seems to have proceeded more from pride

<FOOTNOTE>

*The peculiar customs of this parish are fast wearing out.  It was cus-
tomary, till within these few years, when any head of a family died, to invite
the whole parish:  They were served on boards in the barn, where a prayer
was pronounced before and after the service, which duty was most religious-
ly observed:  The entertainment consisted of the following parts: First, the re
there was a drink of ale, then a dram, then a piece of short bread, then ano-
ther dram of some other species of liquor, then a piece of currant-bread, and
a third dram, either of spirits or wine, which was followed by loaves and
cheese, pipes and tobacco:  This was the old funeral entertainment in the pa-
rish of Campsie, and was stiled their service; and sometimes this was repeated,
and was then stiled a double service; and it was sure of being repeated at the
dredgy.  A funeral cost, at least, a hundred pounds Scots, to any family who
followed the old course.  The most active young man was pointed out to the
office of fever; and in those days, while the manners were simple, and at the
same time serious, it was no small honour to be a server at a burial.  How
ever distant any part of the parish was from the place of interment, it was
customary for the attendants to carry the corpse on hand spokes.  The mode
of invitation to the entertainment, was by some special messenger; which
was stiled bidding to the burial, the form being nearly in the following
words:  You are desired to come to such a one's burial tomorrow, against ten
hours.  No person was invited by letter: and though invited against ten of
the clock, the corpse was never interred till the evening; time not being so
much valued in those days.  It was customary for them to have at least two
lyke-wakes (the corpse being kept two nights before the interment) where the
young neighbours watched the corpse, being merry or sorrowful, according to
the situation or rank of the deceased.


