
638                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Antiquities.-These are neither very numerous, nor remarka-
ble ; but the following appear to be worthy of notice; viz. three
upright blue stones, about four feet high, having figures rudely
cut in them, of crescents crossed with triangles, and single and
double circles joined by lines, the middle one having also a Runic
elephant on it, very similar to one cut in the " maiden stone;"
an ancient granite column, nine feet high, and about two miles
southward, in the parish of Chapel of Garioch.  These stones were
formerly laid horizontally on the moor of Carden, at a little dis,
tance apart, and designed probably to mark the scene of some fa-
mily feud or quarrel, of which all other record is lost ; but on this
moor being planted with fir about thirty years ago, these stones
were set upright in the west dike of the plantation, on the side of
the turnpike road from Inverury to Huntly, and rnay be seen by
the traveller about half-way betwixt the twenty-third and twenty-
fourth mile stone.  On the north side of Benochee, and near its
base, there is a ruinous old Building called the Castle of Harthill,
formerly belonging to M. Leith, a cadet of the family of Leith
of Edingarioch, now Leithhall.  The last possessor was a noted
" reiver" or freebooter, who harassed his neighbours, and was ge-
nerally in feud with them; and tradition says, that, seeing many
of these united against him as a common adversary, he set fire to
his Castle of Harthill, and left the country, and at length ended
his days in the King's Bench, London.  The walls of the castle
bear evident marks of fire, being, rent in several places from top to
bottom ; yet, after having stood for ages without a roof, they are
perfectly erect, and very strong, being about five feet thick, and
forty feet high, with round towers, bartisans, loop-holes, an arched
gateway and turret, and chimney vents above, ten feet wide.
  Another ancient seat, about a mile northward from this, is West-
ball of which the earliest date is uncertain;  but it is mention-
ed by Buchanan as a seat belonging to the church and diocese
of Aberdeen, As early as the thirteenth century ; and it probably
continued in the possession of the church till after the Reforma-
tion.  It came into the hands of the family of Horn after the Re-
volution, and was much improved and beautified by John Horn,
Esq. Advocate in Edinburgh, (grandfather of David Dalrymple,
Lord Westhall,) who enlarged the house, and planted fine ave-
nues, orchard, and garden, adorned, according to the taste of the
age, with a statues yew and holly hedges, fruit and forest trees,
and flowering shrubs intermingled.  Of these, many fine trees re-
                             3


