
112                   SHETLAND.

  Barrows or Tumuli.-In several parts of the parish, there are
the remains of several barrows or tumuli, probably of Scandinavian
origin, some of which I have opened, but could not congratulate
myself on my researches, they having been opened before. In
some, I have found bones partly consumed by fire, pieces of charred
woodland parts of the urn in which the bones had been deposited.
The urns appeared to have been rudely wrought out of a coarse
sandstone, and otbers out of a soft stone called kleber. In some
cases, there is every reason to believe that the bod bad been
burned at the spot where the ashes bad been collected, and placed
in the urn; because the stones which were found to surround the
urn, over which the tumulus was raised, had been subjected to the
action of a strong fire. In other cases, the urns have been placed
on a dry piece of ground, covered with a flat stone, and a little
earth thrown over them. Of this latter description I have one in
my possession, which I found under the foundation of the glebe
dike. It measures 12 inches over the mouth, 10 inches over the
bottom, and is 10 inches deep. It contained a quantity of half-
burnt 'bones, and was covered with a pretty heavy stone, flat on
the side next to the urn. Unfortunately, it was partly broken be-
fore I discovered it. There is, however, enough remaining to
show its shape and workmanship.
  I have discovered two other urns on the glebe, filled with a black
unctuous earth, but so much decayed, that no part of them could
be lifted. Out of one of them I removed the earth, and found,
lying at right angles in the bottom, four pieces of broken stone
axes.

<FOOTNOTE>session of a quern or band-mill, dug out of the ruins of the burgh at Easter Skeld.
It is 13 inclies in diameter, and 2 1\4 inches in thickness.  It appears to have been
formed in the same way as the hand-mills now are, or rather it has been the model
by which they have been made. It has groups or grooves cut for the sile to rest in,
and an hole for the handle, I have recovered the half only of the under stone, the
dimensions of which have exceeded a little tbose of the upper stone. They are both
made of the same kind of stone (micaceous schistus) as the millstones now in use are
made of.
   I subjoin Dr Hibberet's description of these instruments, and then add the obser-
vations I have to offer:-
 " The ancient weapons of war discovered in Shetland are of stone. That such
were used by the Teutonic tribes of Europe in the eighth century, and probably very
long before, in evident from the fragment of a prow-romance written about that pe-
riod, in the Saxon dialect of the Teutonic. This manuscript, which is preserved in
Cassel, was first printed in Eccardi Comment. de rebus Francia Orientalis, and it has
been reprinted with a Latin and English translation, in an interesting work lately
published in Edinburgh, endtitled, " illustrations of Northern Antiquities." From
this very curious document, two or three disjoined passages may be given, by which
we may see the reference which is made to the Teutonic burgh, and to the arms con-
temporary with this early kind of fortress:-'I heard it related that Hiltibrant and
Hatubrant with one mind agreed to go on a warlike expedition. The relatives (sons


