
204			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

Kirkwood in Dalton, and Nutholmhill in this parish, form a beau-
tiful vale a mile long, through which the river Annan flows in a ser-
pentine course. In the centre of this enchanting vale, and on the
bank of the river Annan, the manse and church, embowered in wood,
are situated. The manse stands 90 feet above the high water-
mark at Annan by the barometer. Nutholmhill, elevated 200 feet
above the sea, sinks gradually into a plain eastward at the junction
of the Annan and Milk, and westward near the village of Lockerby.
Directly east, and nearly parallel with the ridge of Nutholmhill,
rise the eminences named Barrhill and Breckenhill. Barrhill
sinks into the level of the holms of Hoddam on the east; whilst
Breckenhill, stretching westerly, sinks into the bed of the Milk
on the confines of the parish of Tundergarth. This ridge extends
about two miles, and is in its highest parts elevated 250 feet above
the sea. Through the highly cultivated and richly wooded valley
formed by these hills, the Water of Milk takes a serpentine course
of three miles, on the bank of which is built the modern mansion of
Castlemilk. In the north of the high land of Breckenhill, after a
slight depression, the ground suddenly rising up again, forms the
classical table-shaped hill of Burnswark in the parish of Hoddam.
	Meteorology.--The climate is rather moist, from the parish being
only six miles from the Solway Firth, and the quantity of high

ground contained in and surrounding the parish. The most pre-
valent winds are from the south-west. Although the climate is mild
from the sudden alternations of temperature to which the parish is
exposed, inflammatory complaints are not uncommon; the very
flimsy manuf`cture, which has supplanted the coarse fabric of our
forefathers, gives rise to many glandular diseases, consumptions,
and complaints of the liver and stomach. The great improvement
which has taken place within these thirty years in the construction
of houses, their comparative cleanliness and capability of ventila-
tion, have greatly tended to diminish disease among the aged;
vhilst vaccination (now very generally adopted) has no less dimi-
nished death in early life. A somewhat singular atmospherical
phenomenon passed over this parish some year since. A very smart
shower of rain from the south-west, originating in the maritime
parish of Caerlaverock, crossed this parish in the same direction, and
spent itself on the confines of the parish of Tundergarth. The rain
was salt water; and from the heat of a clear sun immediately after
the shower, in a short time evaporation left slight incrustations of
salt on grass and tree. A whirlwind over the Solway, then at high
                               3


