

230                             AYRSHIRE.



 ject by observing the effects produced on a piece of most, where
 lime had been accidentally overturned, and which was covered
 with the finest herbage, while all around retained its original bar-
 renness.  To many the circumstance would not have appeared
 deserving of notice, but Mr Smith being engaged at the time in
 endeavouring to improve the moss that disfigured his estate, by
 paring and burning, his active and intelligent mind soon perceived
 the efficacious nature of the lime, and its vast superiority over the
 paring and burning system. It is unnecessary here to enter into
 a detail of the experiments which Mr Smith immediately com-
 menced, and which were attended with complete success.  Like
 many other improvements which have prejudice and ignorance to
 encounter, Mr Smith's experiments excited the universal derision
 and ridicule of his neighbours,- but the valuable crops which the
 moss produced, soon induced his tenants and others to follow his
 example; and the consequence has been, that extensive mosses
 which, in their natural state, were not worth a shilling an acre,
 have been converted into excellent land, and in some instances
 have yielded from ten to fifteen quarters of oats from a single
 Scotch acre. Although it is unnecessary to particularize all the
 improvements made on moss land, those effected on the estate of
 Maulside, by Andrew Mitchell, Esq. writer, Glasgow, are de
 serving of attention.  This moss was of as sterile a nature as can
 well be conceived, having for ages been used for peats. By ex-
 tensive draining and levelling, however, and removing in some
 places twelve feet of moss, and by incorporating with it immense
 quantities of clay, together with lime and other dung, it has been
 converted into a fertile soil.  The first crop of oats it produced
 was valued at L. 11 per Scots acre, and the succeeding crop of hay
 at L. 7 per acre. Mr Mitchell has planted considerable plantations,
 which greatly beautify as well as shelter the surrounding country.
    Within these twenty years, extensive improvements have been
 made in the irrigatio of land.  Large tracts of land in the high-
 er parts of the parish, which formerly were not worth five shillings
 an acre, and bore nothing but heather, have since the introduc-
 tion of irrigation, become greatly increased in value, and now bear
 abundant crops of hay. Mr Robert Speirs of South Camphill has
 been the most extensive and successful improver in this branch of
 rural economy. A great extent of waste land has been brought
 under cultivation. Thorough draining has been extensively prac-
 tised.  The old high and crocked ridges have been levelled and


