
                          HUTTON AND CORRIE.                          539

   influence.  The mode of pronunciation is greatly improved, a more
   efficient and extensive course of education is attended to, and the
   attendance on the schools is more regular.  For a considerable
   period, there has been a Sabbath school in each of the united pa-
   rishes, from which the rising generation have derived great benefit.
   The old mode of burial has been long abandoned.  The precise
   hour of meeting is observed, the time during which the company
   remain is short, and the service slight.  The use of spirits, on
   other occasions also, has become more limited.  As a proof of the
   general good conduct of the inhabitants, there have been no con-
   victions of any of them, so far as is recollected, before a criminal
   court, except in a few instances for poaching. At the same time,
   worthless characters occasionally appear in the parish; but the worst
   of them come to us from other countries. Some have come from
   this north of England. The Irish also occasionally visit us, and
   offer their services at a rate ruinous to native labourers; and threa-
   ten to redue these last to their own low condition. The profits
   from farms and the wages of labour having greatly decreased since
   the re-establishment of peace, there appears now a good deal of
   pecuniary distress. The consequence has been, emigration to the
   British North American possessions and the United States.  Dr
   Smith observes in his Wealth of Nations, that man is, of all lug-
   gage, the most difficult to be transported; and that such is his at-
   tachment to the place of his birth, and where he has spent his
   early years, that he will cling to naked rocks, and pestilential
   swamps, to a land of storms and tempests.  This attachment,
   however, appears to be losing strength with many. And indeed
   such numbers of their friends and acquaintances have preceded
   them, more especially to the British North American possessions,
   that they no longer consider these to be the land of strangers.
   The population of the parish, it will be seen, has been steadily
   advancing, notwithstanding of emigration, and since employment
   has become more difficult to be procured, it is fortunate there is
   such a vent for the superfluous population.
                          IV.--INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture. *--The whole extent of the parish is nearly 23,000
   imperial acres. Of this there are only 3000 occasionally cultivat-
   ed, the remaining 20, 000 not having been ploughed within the last
   forty years.  But at an earlier period, and before the middle of last
   century, cultivation had been extended considerably farther than

   <FOOTNOTE>The part of this article which relates to Industry was drawn up by Charles
   Stewart, Esq., factor for Mr Johnstone of Annandale.


