
                      KILMALCOLM.                               57

rich and beautiful view than the r' ing grounds on the shore. At
certain seasons of the year, there are heavy falls of rain, attend-
ed with high winds, which idju're the fields and gardens. The
climate is inoist, and all the houses are more or less affected
with dampness. The inhabitants are generally healthy. In-
flamuaations and rheumatic affections are the most prevailing dis-
eases.
      Hydrograpy.-The Frith of Clyde bounds the parish between
three and four miles on the north. The waters of the Grieff and
Duchall rise in the west, and run in a southerly direction through
the whole length of the, parish,-unite their streams, -change their
course eastwards, and discharge their waters into the river Cart,
which falls into the Clyde at Inchinnan. The parish abounds
with excellent water. During very dry seasons, some of the surface
springs disappear,-wbicb, however, occasions no inconvenience,
as the perennial springs are numerous, and yield an ample supply
of the finest water at all times.
    Geology.-The rocks that abound in this parish are of granite,
and in some places of great depth. Some simple minerals have
been found from time to time. Tile soil on the rocks is light and
gravelly, and upon the high-lands is covered with heath and wild
flowers. The vegetable productions and other plants are all of
the common kind.
     Zoology.-A few years ago, a bull and two cows of the I aborigi-
nal breed of the country were brought into the parish from Eglin-
ton Castle. They are entirely white, and continue; so shy that
they will allow no one to approach them. The flesh of these anir
mals, it is believed, has neither the richness nor the flavour of the
Highland breed of cattle.
    The streams abound with excellent fish; such as trout and par-
At the end of the year, the salinon come from the Clyde up the
small river, where they deposit large quantities of fry, which return
to the salt water in the month of April. So, rapid is their growth iti
salt water that, report says, they have inereasecl in length eighteen:
in ehes. A small 3ieee -ut out of the fin hs the usual imrk:lby
which this fact h&,; been asertained.

               II.-CIVIL HISTORY

   Some account of this parish is in the ,historwo of
Renfrewhire that have been published from time to time,-such
as those of Semple, Crawford, ad Wilson. The are no sepa-


