
340                          HADDINGTONSHIRE.

what more than 6 acres in extent, rich, and fertile;-the stipend
has comfortably progressed in amount. In 1755, it is stated at
L. 72, 6s. 8d., in last Statistical Account it is stated, on an average,
at L.116. The stipend decreed on 4th February 1818, for crop
and year 1817, is 18 chalders of victual ;-2 chalders of wheat, 42
bolls of oats, and the remainder, half meal, half barley, according
to the highest fiars prices of the county,-with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for
the communion elements. There is a Dissenting meeting-house of
the United Associate Synod, erected in 1778, and rebuilt in 1832,
whose minister is paid from the collections and the seat rents. The
stipend is about L. 100. The present minister, the Rev. George
Brown, has been minister for thirty years, son of the excellent Rev.
John Brown of Whitburn, and grandson of the distinguished John
Brown of Haddington, and is a man of much piety and usefulness.
   It is estimated that of the stated population of the census in 1831,
amounting to 1824, 1592 are under the pastoral superintendence
of the Established Church, and 232 belong more immediately to
the Dissenters. The number of communicants on the roll of the
Established Church may be stated about 500.-There are four
silver communion cups, which are believed to have descended from
Episcopalian service to the Presbyterian Kirk. The inscriptions on
them bear date 1670; but at least two of the cups bespeak, as we
conceive,a much more remote antiquity; these bear the simple in-
scription "This cup pertaineth to the Church of North Berwick,
1670." The other two, similar to each other, but of a somewhat
different form from those which appear the more antique, bear re-
spectively-"Gifted to the Church of North Berwick by Mrs Bar-
bara Young, relict of Archbald Douglas, some time Captain of
Tomtallan, 1670." "Left in legacies to the Church of North Ber-
wick, by Mr Henry Aikinheid, late Pastor thereof, and performed by
Archbald Riddel and James Rige his sones-in-law, 1670." The
ancient metal ewer for baptismal water, of elegant antique form,
though sadly mutilated, and the iron chest, (very curiously form-
ed,) for the reception and security of the pecuniary offerings at the
church, are relics carefully preserved by the present Minister; and
even the hour sand-glass, frail as it is, which was wont to regulate
the eloquence and services of those long no more.*

<FOOTNOTE>It may be noticed as a curious circumstance, that the living of North Berwick
was in the possession of one family in regular succession for l3O years. In 1692, Mr
Matthew Reid was ordained successor to Mr John Herbert, and survived to 1729. Mr
Reids daughter was married to Mr George Murray, assistant and successor to Mr
Reid. Mr George Murray was succeeded by his son, Mr Matthew Murray, who, in


