
                     KINGOLDRUM.                         617

more convenient to the neighbourhood, than ornamental to his
property.
   Habits of the People, &c.-The people, genarally speaking, are
obliging, hospitable, and affable. They are peaceable and inoffen-
sive in their dealings, generally moral in their behaviour, attentive
to the ordinances of religion, regular in their attendance in the pa-
rish church, and in th observance of hte Christian Sabbath.
   Poaching in the salmon fisheries formely prevailed: but this
has been completely checked.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The parish may be said to be completely agricultural. There
are scarcely any families who are not in some measure connected
with the operations of husbandry.

<TABLE>

   The number of imperial acres, cultivated or occasionally in tillage,
       may be stated at,                                             3500
   Number of acres which never have been cultivated,                 7000
                   which might be improved so as to undergo a regu-
                         lar rotation of cropping,                    800
                   under wood, natural or planted                    1500
                                                                    ______
                                                                     12800
  Rent of Land.-The average rental of land may be stated at
about L. 1, 3s. per acre.
  Rental.-The real rental of the parish is about L.4123.
  Live-Stock.-The number of sheep kept is from 1200 to 1500.
They are principally of the black-faced breed, but crosses have
been lately introduced.
  The Angus-shire black cattle are the most common. In gene-
ral, the stock purchased for grazing and feeding cannot be sur-
passed in any other district of the country. They are generally
sold to dealers for the London, Edinburgh, and Glasgow markets.
The general rotation of cropping is what is termed the sixth, that
is, three years in grass, two grain crops, and one green crop, or
clean fallow. A very considerable improvement has taken place
of late years in respect to husbandry. Much waste land has been
reclaimed, and furrow-draining has been very successfully intro-
duced. The general duration of leases is nineteen years.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town, &c.-Kirriemuir, distant four miles, is the near-
est market-town, at which, at convenient seasons, markets for
sheep, horses, and cattle are held.  The only village, properly so
called, is in the neighbourhood of the church.  The parish is
conveniently intersected by roads, but they are kept in a bad state


