
586                  	AYRSHIRE.

together unconnected with his previous history, was raised to high
rank in Ireland. The transaction has only recently been brought
to notice by, the publication of the Montgomery Manuscripts at
Belfast in 1830, and by Dr Reid's History of the Presbyterian
Church in Ireland, to which works reference is here made.
	Montgomery was knighted by King James, who gave him the
precedency of his rival, James Hamilton, afterwards Lord Clan-
deboy. He was afterwards created Viscount Montgomery of Ards,
and his son was created Earl Mount Alexander. Hugh Mont-
gomery took with him from this parish several families, who settled
upon his Irish estate, and whose descendants remain in that dis-
trict of the country, many of them being highly respectable. The
last Earl Mount Alexander having died without issue, the title
became extinct, the estates passed from the family, and a great
part of them now belongs to the Marquis of Londonderry.
	We have formerly noticed the patriotism of William Mure,
who took the command of a small party of Covenanters after
the meeting at Shitterflatt, and marched to join their country-
men, then in the field near Edinburgh, and of his forfeiture
and personal sufferings. We refer for the particulars to the
histories of that interesting period. His collateral descendant,
William Mure of Glanderston, who succeeded to Caldwell, was
also a sufferer in the public cause in 1683, as mentioned by
Wodrow. His grand-nephew, Baron William Mure of Cald-
well, was educated under charge of the Rev. William Leechman,
afterwards minister of Beith, and subsequently Professor of Di-
vinity, and Principal of the University of Glasgow. Mr Leech-
man paid great attention to the formation of the character of his
pupil, and had the gratifying pleasure of seeing his labours reward-
ed. Mr Mure was acknowledged to be a man of high talents for
busines, and of most honourable principle. Soon after he reach-
ed majority, he was chosen representative for Renfrewshire, and
kept his seat for twenty years, having been thrice returned without
opposition. He was held in high esteem by the Government,
and was entrusted with the management of much of the public
affairs of Scotland, and was in habits of familiar correspondence
with Hume, Robertson, and many other eminent literary men.
In 1761 he wAs appointed one of the Barones of Exchequer, which
office he held until his death in 1776. He married Katherine,
daughter of the Honourable James Graham, Lord Easdale, one
of the Judges of the Court of Session. His eldest son, the late


