
746                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

hand spinning of linen yarn, which was once a regular occupation,
being now completely superseded by mill machinery,
   There are also many Irish always resident in it, who subsist in
a mean and filthy state, with large families, chiefly hawkers of fish,
fruit, &c., or rearers of pigs. A great deal of private charity is
given in Edinburgh, which, it is said, has the effect of drawing
the poor to it from a very wide circle of, the country, with the
view, also, of waking out a three years' residence.
   Canongate Charity Workhouse.-The management of this house
is now vested in fifty-six directors, chosen-anuually, viz. four from
the magistrates, the two ministers of the parish, the minister of the
chapel in New Street, twenty-five from the heritors, eight from
the kirk-session, and sixteen from the incorporations.
   These are called the Extraordinary Managers of the Charity
Workhouse, because they hold stated meetings once a quarter
only, although they may at any time be called together by the
treasurer or by the clerk on a requisition signed by any six of their
number. At their meeting in June they chose from their number
a committee of fifteen, any five to be a quorum, to act as ordinary
managers in the constant inspection and conduct of the business
of the house.
   Some of the parochial poor are taken into the house, and are
maintained entirely from its funds; others receive small out-pen-
soins; and others small sums to help them to pay the rents of
their houses. The managers have also to pay for the nursing of
infants out of the house, and for the board and keeping of insane
paupers. For many years this expense was defrayed without hav-
ing recourse to an assessment.
   In 1765 the kirk-session declared their readiness to convey
to the managers of the workhouse "the whole funds belong-
ing to the poor, and the securities taken for the same, so far
as hitherto the same had fallen under their administration." But,
aagreeably to the wishes of the managers, the session enacted,
"That the poor's funds vested in the session, and lent out in
their name should be continued on this footing, that the securi-
ties for the same should be taken in the name of the kirk-session,
or thier treasurer for the time being: But that the said funds
should be from time to time, lent out, uplifted, and applied by
the authority and direction of a meeting of the fifteen ordinary ma-
nagers of the charity workhouse, or a quorum of their number:


