
                         KELTON.                       163

and healthful amusement. These games, however, are not un-
attended with danger. In some places the lake is very deep, and
the surface being constantly agitated in particular parts by cur-
rents of wind, and the hundreds of water-fowl that frequent its
shores, there are generally some small spots left open aftter the
rest is frozen, over. These being covered by a single night's in-
tense frost, as is sometimes the case, are apt to deceive the un-
wary. In this way a boy was drowned in the winter of 1839-40.
Cards, backgammon, draughts, and chess are known, but not ex-
tensively practised in the parish. Poaching is not common, though
one or two lawless young men have been several times incarce-
rated for violating the game laws. Smuggling is unknown.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
	There are in the parish about 40 farmers, 43 cottars, and 45
farm-servants, living in their masters' houses. A considerable
number of, labourers, probably to the amount of 80, reside in
Castle-Douglas, and the villages of Rhonehouse and Gelston,
who, along with their families, and a part of the female population
also, are generally employed in agriculture. Farm-servants re-
ceive as wages from L.10 to L.12 per annum; female servants,
from L.5 to, L.6; masons, 3s., and carpenters 2s. 6d. per day.
	There are about 40 males employed in retail trade, and in-
cluding masters and workmen, 180 in handicraft. There are 3
bankers and 7 assistants, 10 writers, and 4 physicians and surgeons,
        Agriculture.-This parish contains 2721 imperial acres annu-
ally under cultivation. About 1327 acres have never been sub-
jected to the plough, and could not, by any profitable, application
of capital, be reclaimed. Cultivation, indeed, has nearly reached
its limit. There are about 570 acres in plantation. The woods
generally consist of the Scotch fir, larch, spruce, elm, ash, and
oak. Most of the plantations are young, but take kindly to the
soil, and grow rapidly. Great care is tajen, by yearly thinning
and pruning, to promote the growth of the trees.
	This parish owes much to Sir William Douglas, for the pains
he took to adorn with plantation the estate of Gelston; to the
late proprietor, Mr Maitland, for improving upon the plans of
his predecessor; to Colonel Maxwell, for his extensive plantations
upon the farms of Potterland and Glen Yerroch, whihc entitle
this part of the parish to the designation of the Trosachs of Gal-
loway; and to James Barbour, Esq. of Dummuir, for the tasteful
manner in which he has beautified the estate of Keltonhill.


