
718                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

regular guard was abolished, and the old system for a short time
resumed, it became so distasteful to the citizens that they again
petitioned Parliament for a new arrangement. Leave was accor-
dingly granted to raise a company of 126 men, who were called
the Town Guard, and the town-council were empowered to tax
the city for their permanent support. This body long continued
to be the guardians of the city; and their guard-room formed the
lower portion of the Old Tolbooth. They were dressed in the
old military costume, with long blue coats and cocked hats, and
at night perambulated the streets with a huge Lochaber axe in
their hand.
   Besides these, there was a regiment of city militia,-"Trained
Bands," consisting of 16 companies of 100 men each,-regularly
officered, with the Lord Provost at their head as colonel. These
were only summoned to occasional duty; such as on the anniver-
sary of the King's birth day, and other state occasions.
   The first police bill for the city was obtained in 1805. It was
renewed in 1812 and 1822; and has since undergone several emen-
dations. By it the city is divided into thirty wards; to each of which
one general and two resident commissioners are appointed by the
public suffrages of the householders. These commissioners regu-
late the affairs of the establishment;-and the sheriff of the coun-
ty and magistrates of the city are the judges in the police court.
The active duties are under the management of a superintendent,
and four lieutenants. The police establishment includes watch-
ing, lighting, cleaning, and paving the streets. The assessment is
laid on the rents of houses and shops, and varies according to the
annual outlay. The average rate of assessment is about 1s. 3d.
per pound. The average annual revenue about L. 30,000.
   Society of High Constables.-This body is formed from the mer-
chants and respectable tradesmen of the city, and is headed by a
moderator or president. Its affairs are managed by a secretary
and treasurer. The Society acts under the direction of the ma-
gistrates; and is called out on occasion of any extraordinary dis-
turbance, as in the case of riots, fires, &c. Besides these, there
are a certain number of extraordinary constables, who may also be
called out to serve on any exigency.
   Royal Company of Archers.-This is a very ancient body; hav-
ing been instituted by James I. on his return from his long capti-
vity in England. The object of this monarch was to encourage
archery among his subjects perceiving that in this art they were


