
                           JURA.                            539

that, without any written record to guide him, the writer finds
the attempt would be fruitless to remove the obscurity in which
they are involved.
  In digging the foundation of Lagg Inn some years ago, several
stone-coffins were discovered, each containing calcined or half-
burnt bones.  In forming the line of road from Lagg to Feolin
Ferry, many urns were met with by the workmen, each of them
containing what appeared to be ashes.  About fifty years ago, a
number of silver coins, of the reign of Charles I., was discovered
on the farm of Sannaig in Jura.  The value of this board, deposited
only eighteen inches below the surface, could never be ascertained,
the strictest secrecy having been maintained by the fortunate
finder, who lost no time in converting it into modern currency.
Specimens of these coins may now, or might lately be seen at Jura
House.
   A few years ago, there was found in a peat moss on the farm
of Ardfarnal, (five feet below the surface,) a complete specimen
of the Caledonian Club, or Backuill--(Latine Baculum.)  From
its form and shape, it must have been a very formidable weapon,
a powerful argumentum baculinum, when wielded by an offended
Highlander.
  The ruins of many chapels are still extant in this island; their
names, Kilmorie, Kilchianaig, Kilchattan, and Killearnadale, fur-
nish indications of their having been built at a period, when the
saints in the Romish calendar were held in higher repute than
they are, at the present time, in the parish of Jura and Colonsay.

<TABLE=III.--POPULATION>

                   III.--POPULATION.

                   Amount in 1801,    .     2007
                             1811,    .     1943
                             1821,    .     2228
                             1631,    .     2205
                             1841,    .     2299

   The population of this parish is scattered over an immense sur-
face.  The people are separated from each other by gulfs, broad
ferries, and dangerous estuaries, including the Linne Tharsing,
Gulfs of Corivreckan and Bealach a Chumbainn Ghlais, dividing
Scarba from the Island of Lunga.  It is an amiable feature in the
character of the parishioners, that, throughout the length and
breadth of a parish of such extent, the minister, in his do-
miciliary visits, is hailed and welcomed in every family with the
utmost cordiality; that his diets of visiting, catechizing, and
preaching have been regularly attended; that even in the remotest
districts and islands, his appeal on behalf of the moral and religi-
ous instruction of their children has been readily responded to, by


