
  354                        PERTHSHIRE.

  berries are three years in ripening, and upon the same bush they
  may be seen in their different stages.  The juniper is esteemed a
  good antiscorbutic.*
     The grasses to be met with are the ryegrass, red, white, crow-
  foot clover, scirpus or rush grass, eriophorum or cotton-grass, alo -
  pecurus or fox-tail; with rib-grass, water-cress, thyme, mint, cow
  parsnep, chickweed, and wood sorrel.  There abound here also
  digitalis, solanum or nightshade, hemlock, nettle, thistle, dande-
  lion, mugwort, mallow, filices or ferns.  These last are much used
  in the Highlands for thatching houses, and endure for many years.
  When used for thatch, the fern is pulled out of the earth by the
  root.  It is also used for making manure, and when cut green and
  properly dried, both horses and cows eat it.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Village.-The village of Callander is built upon feus held of the
  family of Perth.  To each feu is attached an acre or two of land, for
  which the feuar pays about L. 1, 10s. per acre, or from that to L. 3, ac-
  cording to the quality of the soil.  The houses are built substantially
  with stone and lime, and covered with slate.  The street is wide, and
  regularly cleaned and repaired.  There is an abundant supply of
  excellent water in different parts of the village, conducted in leaden
  pipes, the original expense of which was defrayed by Lady Wil-
  loughby, who has done much to add to the neatness of the village
  and the comfort of its inhabitants. Through Callander passes the
  principal road to the Western Highlands by Lochearnhead, Tyn-
  drum, and Black-mount; and from this place, there are several
  other roads branching out in different directions.
     Antiquities.-About a mile west of Callander, there are the re-
  mains of a fortification on the top of a hill, called Dun bo chais-
  til, the hill of the castle. This must have been a place of
  considerable strength; the face bf the hill is perpendicular,
  rising to: the height of about 300 feet, and quite inaccessible on
  the south. The gateway and three tiers of ditches and mounds
  are distinct upon the top. The mounds are strengthened with
  large stones, and within was a sunk well, which has been filled
  up, as cattle were liable to fall into it. From the summit of this
  hill, there is an extensive prospect, particularly to the east; the

  <FOOTNOTE>I have heard it said, that when the plaque was in Scotland and had reached
  Callander, the people to the westward at Bridge of Turk, where this plant abounds,
  were in the habit, two or three times every day, of setting fire to a quantity ofjuniper.
  Whether this prevented contagion or not, I know not, but the plague did not reach
  them.


