
			CROMARTY.		               5

about two miles to the east of the town, there is a natural arch
which yields a narrow and doubtful passage to what would have
been otherwise an insulated pile of rock, at the height of about an
hundred feet over the beach. A second pile of rock, which stands
out of the sea like the ruins of an inundated temple, is perforated
by no fewer than four natural arches, one of which is about forty
feet in span; and there is a cave near the extreme angle of the
hill, which runs so deep into the rock, that at its inner extremity
the light of the opening is hardly seen to glimmer along the boar
and dewy sides,-crusted with hardening moss, and ridged with
stalactites; and the objects beyond seem as if viewed through the
tube of a telescope. The granitic gneiss extends over a space of
about three square miles. The rest of the parish, which is
secondary, is variously composed of sandstones, argillaceous
shales, breccia, and minute veins of lime; and the angle of the
strata averages in most places from about twenty to thirty, except
in the neighbourbood of the bill, where, like that of the granitic
mass, it is nearly vertical. The older sandstone formations lie in
this direction,-the more recent towards the west; and between
these, there intervene beds of a stratified clay, which seem in this
part of the country, like the carboniferous shales of Caithness, to
represent the coal measures of the south. They abound in ani-
mal remains of an obscure but highly interesting class. In a little
bay about three hundred yards to the east of the town, where the
beds have been laid bare by the sea, and in which they assume a
nearly horizontal position, we find their softer clays partially co-
vered with nodules of a firmer texture, which, from their detached
and rounded appearance, resemble floats of broken ice on a lake.
Each of these, even the most minute, contains the remains of
some animal,-plates resembling those of the tortoise, -pieces of
skin roughened like that of the dog-fish or shark, the scales and
bones of fish; and in some of the better specimens we can still
trace the original form, with the fins and tail spread to the full,
and the scales as regularly arranged as when they covered the liv-
ing animal. The clays of the little bay, after losing themselves in
the beach, reappear in the bottom of a deep ravine which inter-
sects the old coast line; and here, rather more than a century ago,
they were perforated to a considerable depth in boring for coal.
But the attempt was unsuccessful. On withdrawing the kind of
augre used for the purpose, a bolt of water, which occupied the
whole diameter of the bore, came rushing after like the jet of a


