
                         TOROSAY.                           283

he climbed; but for a whole hour he was detained in this
unpleasant situation, the animal laying siege to him at the root of
the tree, and defying all of the  efforts of colley dog to drive him
away, till he was inclined himself to walk off.  The deer in Mull
are not so large as those to be met with on the mainland.  Their
insular situation preventing the crossing of the breed, is suppos-
ed to be the cause of their degeneracy.
   When the former Statistical Account was drawn up there were
foxes in the parish, but now there is not one, neither is there any
other kind of ground vermin.  So late as fifty years ago, there
were no moles in the island.  They first made their appearance
much about that time in the parish or Kilninian, having been im-
ported into it from Morven, by a vessel that discharged an earth-
en ballast near Tobermory.  They are now spread over the
whole island.
   It is rather singular that there should be no partridges in this
or in any other of the parishes of the island, though they are nu-
merous enough in Morven, which, at the narrowest part of the
Sound, is not distant more than a mile land a-half from MulL.
   Ichthyology.-The sound of Mull, with its lochs and bays,
abounds, at all seasons, in cod, ling, whiting, plaice, flounders,
skate, and lythe; and, periodically, in herring, mackerel, and gur-
net.  There are native trouts, of a small size, in all the fresh wa-
ter lakes.  In all the rivers, salmon grilse and sea trout abound.
They come up to spawn in October, and return to the sea in the
end of November.  When rivers have their sources in accessible
lakes, the fish remain in these lakes till the end of spring, they,
then revisit the sea, and about midsummer they return in good
condition to the fresh water again.  In Lochspelve there are oys-
ter and muscle banks.  Myae truncatae abound in Duart and,
Craignuire bays, where also the Mya arenaria devastans is to be
met with.  This shell fish is as large as an ordinary sized oyster,
quite circular, and not so deep, in proportion to its diameter, as
the common cockle.  It is smooth and covered over with a hard-
varnish of a brownish colour ; hence its Gaelic, name, donnag.
Like the hose or razor-fish, it is only to be found at very low wa-
ter.  Though one would be apt to consider it not very digestible,
it is eaten with relish by the natives.  In all parts of the coast
there is abundance of welks, (Turbines littorei) which in some
places are found lying in the heaps.  There is little or no use made
of them, except in seasons of great scarcity.


