
                          DORNOCH.                              13

ground-floor,- which was also occupied as a burying-ground for fa-
milies of distinction. But this was found to be most inconvenient
and unwholesome, both for the minister and congregation, the roof
being stupendously high, and the house very cold in winter. To
remedy these inconveniences, it was agreed by all concerned, about
sixty years ago, that the church should be lofted at the height
of seven feet from the ground. To this upper story, which is the
present place of worship, the ascent is by stairs from without.
The last repair which was given to the church was in 1816, when its
lofty roof was ceiled, and additional accommodation was given by
the erection of a gallery in the easter aisle; notwithstanding which,
there is not yet sufficient accommodation for an increasing popu-
lation. Another gallery is still necessary. The number of sit-
tings in the church cannotbe exactly ascertained; they are probably
from 1000 to 1100; but it is a well known fact, that the pews are
generally crowded to inconvenience, and that, in fine weather, some
have to sit on the tops of the pews for want of room. Arrange-
ments are, however, in contemplation, which may remedy this in-
convenience. *
     The pews have been divided by the heritors according to their
valued rents; and their tenants have free access to them. So far
as I know, there are no seat-rents exacted. The poor sit an the
forms connected with the communion tables, and in the passages.
     The great body of the people are within six miles of the church;
some at the distance of seven or eight miles, and in one district
about twelve miles. The people in this last district are within a
mile of the parish church of Rogart, where the attend public wor-
ship. They are, however, catechised annually by their own parish
minister.
     The manse was built about sixty years ago. The last repairs to
it were given in the year 1825, when some additional accommo-
dations were given by the heritors. It ought to be recorded here,
to the honour of the heritors of the parish, that no meeting of pres-
bytery was rendered necessary during the last eighteen years to
obtain the accommodations which the clergyman required.
     The glebe is about twelve imperial acres, all arable; but the
greater part of it is of little value, the soil being so very sandy and

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, the Duchess Countess of Sutherland, has announced her
intention of repairing the wester aisle, which has been so long in ruins, at her own
expense, and to fit it up as a part of the place fbr public worship. Also to re-
pair the other aisles of the cathedral. The work is to be commenced next spring.
There are to be some free sittings for the poor.


