
178                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

thin coal is only from 14 to 16 inches thick. The thick or main
coal is four feet thick, and lies about seven fathoms below the thin
seam. A black band of ironstone lies about seven fathoms above
the thin coal. There are besides, five other small and inferior
bands of ironstone connected with the seams. The coal here is
good for smithy purposes, and a great proportion of it is used on
the spot in the making of coke. Mr Wallace has 24 coke-kilns
at present in use, and Mr Gartshore 13. These are erected to-
wards the summit of the Barr-hill, nigh to the remains of the
Roman wall, and shine forth in a dark night like beacons to all
the country round. Admiral Fleming has also extensive works
of the same kind at Holland Hirst. About 32 cwt. of coals put
into each of these kilns yields a ton of coke. The coals require at
least two days to roast; but this depends much on the state of the
atmosphere. In March 1834, when coke sold at 16s. 8d. per ton,
the expense of working, with the profits, might thus be estimated:
Coke per ton, worth 16s. 8d.; working the coal 32 cwt. to a
ton of coke, 8s. 8d.; cost and keeping up of kilns and expense of
charring, 2s. 6d. By subtracting the two latter sums, or 11s. 2d.
from 16s. 8d., there is a clear profit of 5s. 6d. per ton for the land-
lord and tenant. The above works, including Holland Hirst, send
annually to the Glasgow market, by the canal, about 2148 tons,
of coke.
   The thin coal in these collieries is difficult to work. The
colliers, are paid about 2s. per cart, equal to 3s. 4d., and some-
times as high as 3s. 9d. per ton at the room faces. The main
coal, on the other hand, is put out as low as 1s. 8d. per ton, carried
to the pit bottom. The average price is 2s. 6d. per cart, equal
to 4s. 2d. per ton. Great quantities of fish bones were discover-
ed when digging the engine pit at Holland Hirst; but organic
remains are not so common in these strata as in some others.
   There are at least five, distinct main posts of lime in this district,
all apparently entering it from the south, showing it tn be the bot-
tom of the Lanarkshire fields; while its surface and principal mi-
neral beds to the east are evidently connected with the carboni-
ferous groups of the coal-fields of the River Forth. The upper-
most post of lime occurs at Milncroft, in the parish of New Monk-
land, exactly on the confines of the district of Lenzie. The se-
cond post is the celebrated deposit in Cumbernauld, lying on each
side of a deep and romantic ravine, and forming by far the best
line for all purposes in this part of the country. The third post


