
                 ABERDALGIE AND DUPPLIN.                  881

charter, dated 3]st December 1489, of the Carthusian convents
and priory of Perth. He died 2d August 1507.
   After the Reformation in 1560, the paucity of ordained mi-
nisters was so great, as to render it expedient to unite many pa-
rishes under the care of one ordained minister, and to supply the
deficiency by readers pro tempore.
   Agreably to this arrangement it appears, from " the Register
of Assignations for the ministers' stipend for the year 1574," pre-
served in the Advocates' Library in Edinburgh, that the following
parishes were uiiited in one cure for the time:-Tibbermuir,
0Dupplin, Aberdalgie, and Pitcairne; Alexander Young, minister.
Aberdalgie and Dupplin, William Melrose, minister, William
Gibson, reidar, 1569. Robert Symsonn, reidar at Dupplin
John Moir, reidar at Aberdagy. These were probably the very
first persons settled here after the Reformation. The presbytery
or session records supply us with no information of an earlier date
than February 14th 1613, when Mr Andrew Plaxfair was or-
dained here under the forms of Episcopacy, which the year before
bad been re-established by James VI.
   Education.-The present school-house and schoolmaster's re-
sidence were built in 1826. The schoolmaster's house affords lit-
tle more than the legal accommodation; but both it and the school-
room are well finished. The salary is the maximum, L.34, 4s.
4 1/2d.; amount of fees, about L.10; and other emoluments, about
L.3, 10s., with the legal quantity of garden ground.
   Poor.-The number of persons receiving parochial aid is 12.
The church collections are quite inadequate for their maintenance;
but the present Earl of Kinnoull has proved as kind and benevo-
lent a friend to the poor of the parish as any of his Lordship's
Noble predecessors. His Lordship makes tip whatever sum is
found necessary for their comfortable subsistence; and it is but
justice to state, that in few parishes are the wants of the poor so
amply supplied.

   December 1842.

PERTH.                                        3 K



