
			KIRKCUDRIGHT.                          23

The ancient name of the island was Trahil or Trayll,* but after
the foundation of the priory dedicated to St Mary, it received the
popular appellation of St Mary's Isle. There are now no vestiges
of the priory to be seen. All the buildings were removed above
a centtry and a-half ago, and the whole site of the priory is occu-
pied by his Lordship's mansion and pleasure grounds. The edi-
fice was surrounded by high walls, and the outer gate, called the
Great-Cross, stood at the distance of half a-mile from the priory,
and about as far from the town. The inner gate led immediately
to the cells inhabited by the monks, and was distinguished by the
name of the Little-Cross. The gates were long ago demolished,
but crosses must have been conspicuous at both entrances. The
prior of St Mary's Isle, like other priors, had a right to a seat in
Parliament. Robert Strivelin was the last prior, and after his
death, Robert Richardson, who also held the offices of Lord
Treasurer and Master of the Moat, was presented to the priory
on the 30th March 1538; he sat as commendator in the Parlia-
ment of 1560. In 1472, Mr Robert Richardson, usufructu`ry,
and William Rutherford, commendator, granted to James Led-
derdale, and Thomas, his son, the lands which belonged to the
priory of St Mary's Isle. This grant was confirmed by a charter
from the king, dated the 4th November 1573.+
	Druid Temple.--Dr Muter, minister of Kirlicudbright, men-
tions in the Old Statistical Account, that there was formerly, a
Druid temple in the parish, near the Roman camp in Bombie. It
was destroyed, he says, a short time before he wrnte by an "ignorant
Goth," who carried off and split the Stones for building a small
bridge over the Buckland-burn.
	Moats.--Moats or motes were fortified eminences, used for
courts of justice. There seem to have been two places of this
kind in the parish, namely, one in the town, still bearing the name
of the Moatbrae, and another in the country, called the Moothill.
Some of the ancient bill forts seem to have been subsequently used
as places for dispensing justice.
	Relics.--A few years ago, some flint hatchets, lying several feet

<FOOTNOTE>It was designated prioratus Sanctae Mariae de Trayll,
	  The property granted consisted of St Mary's Isle, Grange, Torrs and Little
Galtway, reserving eight acres of land contiguous to the church of Galtway, for the
use of the minister, Ledderdale also obtained a lease of nineteen years' duration of
the spiritual property of the priory. In 1570, the following individuals officiated in
three of the churches, Kirkudbright, James Dodds, minister; allowance, L.24; Dun-
rod, William Maclellan, reader, 20 merks; St Mary's Isle, Thomas Anderson, exhort-
er, J.20.


