
330                         FORFARSHIRE.

        Savings Bank.-There is also a saving bank connected with
that of Inverkeilor.
        Poor and Parochial Punds.-The number of individuals at pre-
sent on the poor's roll is 10, and the average sum allotted to each
is L. 3 5s. yearly. There are also others who receive occasional
supplies. The church collections, interest of money, seat rents,
and mortcloth dues, have hitherto been found adequate to supply
the wants of the poor. The church collections, as before stated,
amount to L. 18, 4s. 11d.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The rapid improvements in agriculture that have taken place,
within the last forty years, have bonsiderably changed the aspect
of the country.
	The long serpentine, high crowned ridges, so universal under
the ancient mode of husbandry, have entirely given place to the
straight, level, and well-formed ridge of modern agriculture. The
old system of knoll and natural pasture, so hostile to the grass
crop, and ruinous to the land, is nowhere to be met with, but in
the shape of noxious weeds torn up with the harrow, and laid out
to rot for the purpose of manure. In the days of our fathers, rye-
grass and clover were almost unknown; and even when they came
to be used, it was some time before the old prejudice in favour of
the natural grass would allow the farrner to make trial of them. It
is only within the last forty or fifty years, that the change has been
completely and happily affected.
	The farmers are now every where alive to the modern system of
agriculture, so that it may be said with truth, the present is the
age "where two blades of grass have been made to grow, where
only one grew before." And it surely affords no small proof
of the rapid improvement in this branch of human industry to know,
that, while the value of agricultural produce is, at present, much
the same as it was forty years ago, the farmers live in a style of
comfort unknown to their forefathers, and that the finest fields in
the parish have within th`t period, increased their rental from, 15s.
to L. 3 per acre.
	But while such has been the universal improvement in agricul-
ture, and, we may add, of society, general, it is a subject of deep
regret, that comparatively little attention has been paid to the
humble abodes of the poor, and the often comfortless habitations
of the cottagers. Scotland, in this respect, is very far inferior to
England. It is in vain that we look for the neatly white-washed


