
760                       LANARKSHIRE.

  Friendly Societies.-There are several friendly societies for mu-
tual relief in cases of sickness.  St Thomas's Mason Lodge at
Larkhall consists of about 300 members; and about 60 more
individuals are connected with a similar lodge at Stonehouse.
There is a Colliers' Society, containing 30 members; a Rose-
bank and Dalserf Friendly Society with 60, and a Millheugh and
Larkhall Friendly Society containing about the same number.
There is also a very useful Funeral Society, which affords assist-
ance to its members in case of a death occurring in any of their
families.  They possess a pail or one-horse hearse, which they
also let out for hire.  Under the head of societies may be men-
tioned house-building associations, of which there are several in
the parish.  The " Larkhall and Pleasance Building Society"
was commenced at Martinmas 1814; the idea being suggested
by the great demand which existed at that time for houses and
weavers' shops, occasioned by the return of disbanded soldier's from
the army and militia.  The Pleasance Park, forming part of the
lands of West Machan, and consisting of 4 acres, 2 roods, 12 1/2 falls,
was feued at L. 8 per acre, the whole amounting to L.36, 12s. 6d.
per annum.  This piece of ground was laid off in three lengths,
affording space for three rows of houses, a double and a single row,
each house being 39 feet long, and 21 feet wide, with portions of
garden ground attached to each.  Each of the houses cost from
L. 45 to L. 60.  The operations of this society were finished some
years ago, and the association dissolved.  Each member is now in-
feft in his house as his own private property.  Another associa-
tion for a similar purpose, called the " Larkhall Building Society,"
was instituted at Martinmas 1824, and consists of 29 members.
These each pay 1s. a week to the treasurer for six years, or till
the sum subscribed amounts to L. 16, 12s.  Each member on
getting a house pays 1s. 3d. per fall for his own ground over and
above the weekly payment of 1s., and also L. 4, 10s. per annum
as rent.  The ground feued by this society at L. 10 per acre ex-
tends to 2 1/2 acres, and 15 falls, belonging to the estate of Rap-
loch, and lying on both sides of the Glasgow and Carlisle road,
as it runs from Larkhall northwards.  The ground allotted to each
feu is 38 feet front, and 7 falls backwards.  The houses built by
this society are better than those erected by the former, and cost
each about L. 70.  The society is to continue till all the mem-
bers are furnished with houses.  Its operations are drawing to a
close, and it will in a short time be dissolved like the former asso-


