
104                        FORFARSHIRE.

in the town for the higher branches of literature. Few parents
think of giving their children a classical education. Of late, how-
ever, there is an improvement in this respect.--There is a public
library, the property of which is vested in the shareholders.  The
purchase money is L. 5, besides half a guinea of annual subscrip-
tion. The number of volumes in the library is upwards of 4000,
of which one-fotrth consists of novels and romances, and one-
eighth of voyages and travels. It contains the leading monthly
and quarterly reviews and magazines. But works of a theological
nature have, in a great measure, been excluded.--A small library,
consisting of theological and miscellaneous publications, is attach-
ed to the Abbey Chapel of Ease, and another of a similar de-
scription to the Chapel of Ease in the parish of St Vigeans.--A
mechanics' library was instituted in 1824., It contains upwards of
500 volumes, of a theological as well as scientific description.
With this it is intended to connect a mechanics' institution or school
of arts; and a building for the purpose has just been erected.
This comprises also a mechanics' reading-room, which is open every
day of the week, Sabbath excepted. There is another public read-
ing-room in the town, frequented by most of the merchants and
higher class of shopkeepers; which, we regret to remark, is kept
open on the Lord's day.  There is no newspaper or other perio-
dical work published in the town. The provincial newspaper,
which has the greatest circulation in the place, is the Montrose
Review.
	Charitable and other Institutions.--There is neither alms-house,
poor-house, hospital, dispensary, nor lunatic-asylum in the town.
Still, however, there are several charitable institutions conndcted
with the parish. The most ancient of these is Carmichael's mor-
tification for the benefit of seven shipmasters' widows.  The be-
quest is dated 29th August 1733; and, at present, the net pro-
ceeds arising from land-rent, feu-duties, and the interest of L.600,
amount to L. 130.
	By deed of mortification, 6th July 1811, the late John Colvill,
Esq. town-clerk of Arbroath, left property for the following pur-
poses connected with the parish, viz. L. 30 per annum to the pa-
rochial schoolmaster of Arbroath, for the education of five poor
children of that town, he furnishing each of them with pens, ink,
paper, and books, to the value of L. 2;--also L. 10 yearly to the
clergyman of the Scotch Episcopal Chapel of Arbroath; and L. 10
yearly to the poor of Arbroath, under the direction of the minis-


