
742                          FIFESHIRE.

south-east, from a ridge near the northern extremity of tbe parish.
The prevailing strata are sandstone, slate, clay, and till, contain-
ing a number of seams of coal, varying in thickness from 9 inches
to 3 1/2 feet. Above the coal, which is now being wrought, there is
a bed of whinstone 8 fathoms thick. There is only one coal-pit
in operation at present. It is 46 fathoms deep. The bed of coal
is 5 1/2 feet in thickness ; but the expense of turning out this coal
is much increased, in consequence of its being composed of two
seams, separated by a stratum of clay 15 inches thick. This,
however, only lessens the value of the coal-field to the proprietor,
and does not raise the price of coal to the consumer ;-for this is
prevented by the competition of other coal-works in the neighbour-
hood.
   Considerable quantities of iron ore are also found in this coal-
field in globular masses. About thirty years ago, when the iron
trade was more profitable than it is just now, this ore was wrought
along with the coal. and was sold at 10s. 6d. per ton to the Car-
ron Company. The working of it has been discontinued for many
years. The present tacksman of the Dunnikier colliery could
find buyers of the iron in England; but the prices offered are not
sufficiently remunerating to encourage him to embark in this
branch of trade.
   Soil.-The soil of the plain along the coast, on which the town
is built, as may be seen in all the gardens on the south side of the
High Street, is exceedingly sandy. To the north of the High
Street, where the ground begins to ascend, and all along the back
of the town in its immediate vicinity, the soil is dry rich loam, and
very productive. On the rising ground farther north, the sub-
soil becomes retentive, and the land is cold, wet, and clayey.
The part of the parish most distant from the sea is what was for-
merly the town's common moor; and, though much has been done
for it by cultivation and improvements, it still remains comparatively
unproductive.
   Zoology.-Between twenty and thirty years ago, a little insect,
whose effects are denominated the American blight, made its ap-
pearance here. Ever since that time, it has been very destructive
to apple trees in this parish. Once visited by it, they seldom after-
wards recover health. Varidus expedients have been tried to pre-
vent its attacks and to discover a remedy for the disease it leaves
behind it; but all such attempts have hitherto been unsuccessful.
   Botany.-Interesting as is this district of Fife to botanists, the
parish of Kirkcaldy may be gaid to be destitute of botanical riches.



