
                              ALLOA.			     19

girth being taken at one foot from the ground) as under: Horse-
chestnut, girth, 19 feet, extent of branches 70 feet; another horse-
chetsnut, girth, 13 feet, extent of branches, 66 feet, beech, girth,
18 feet; another beech, girth, 14 feet 6 inches. Of the latter,
the height to the branches is 20 feet. Oak, (Quercus Robur,) girth,
15 feet, extent of branches, 68 feet. This very beautiful tree
stands singly in the park. Greater maple or sycamore, girth 12
feet 6 inches; yew, (Taxus baccata,) girth, 7 feet 6 inches; at
beginning of branches, (3 feet from the ground,) girth, 11 feet.
   These dimensions give an average girth of 9 feet 3 inches, and
a diameter of 3 feet 1 inch, or 37 inches, which, by De Candolle's
method, being multiplied by 12, gives 444 years as the age ofthe
tree. This is on the supposition that each annual ring is equal to
one line ia breadth. If for aged trees we take the average of one
line annually, we make them younger than they really are. There
Are several more yew trees here of apparently the same age.
   A fine ash (Fraxinus excelsior) in the park, long named the
"giant's staff," is more remarkable for beauty than for size, being
free from branches to a great height, and as straight as a ship's
mast. A similar tree is thus alluded to by Homer,
          " From Pelion's cloudy top, an ash entire
          Old Chiron filled, and shaped it for his sire;
          A spear which stern A chilles only wields,
          The death of heroes and the dread of fields."
   The largest tree in the parish is an oak near Tullibody Houset,*
measuring in girth 20 feet; extent of branches, 98 feet; others
do. measuring in girth, 14 feet; an ash measuring 15 feet; and
several sycamores, 14 feet.
   Geology and Mineralogy.  The whole of this parish is compos-
ed of rocks, without exception, belonging to the independent coal
formation, upon which rests'a thick cover, both of old and recent
alluvial clay. The surface is undulated, forming hill and dale,
all of it in an arable state. The recent alluvial cover is evidently
formed by deposits from the river Forth, and its tributary streams,
washing down the old alluvial clay, and extends along the north
side of the river, until it joins the old alluvial cover northward;
the line of junction being quite distinct. This line is about twenty-

<FOOTNOTE>In the year 1745, when the, rebel army, consisting of 4000 men. had got posses-
sion of the town, though not of the Castle of Stirling, the Rev. Ebeneter Erskine,
one of the fathers of the Secession, found it expediant to retire fox a seasson, and preach-
ed to his people in the wood of Tullibody.
   For this Valuable contribution the writer is indebted to Robert Bald, Esq.
F.R.S.E., F.G.S., M.W.S., &C. Mining. Engineer.


