
542                              PERTHSHIRE.

ter the glen; and the fall at Moar, where the river is recipitated
from a considerable height into a narrow pool. Here, when
the river is somewhat swollen, great quantities of salmon are caught.
   The Conait, for upwards of a mile before it joins the Lyon, pre-
sents a succession of beautiful cascades.
   The falls of the Keltney, with its wild and rugged banks and
romantic scenery, are also worthy of notice.
   Geology and Mineralogy-Lime.-The remarkable bed of lime-
stone which traverses the range of the Grampians in a south-west-
erly direction from Aberdeenshire to Dumbartonshire, passes
through this parish towards the east end. The stone is allowed to
be of a superior quality. A fine quarry of blue granite has lately
been opened and wrought to adv`ntage on the estate of Mr Men-
zies of Chesthill.
   Several veins of marble are to be met with in the parish, (par-
ticularly on the estate of Garth,) of various hues and colours.
   Rock crystals, spars and pebbles, of great variety and brilliancy,
are frequently gathered among our mount`hns.
   In Glenlyon, there is a vein of lead glance, which is allow-
ed to be of considerable richness. It was wrought for some
time about the beginning of the last century, but was then relin-
quished from some cause or other, probably the want of roads in
the district at that period; and it has never since been resumed.
Behind the village of Fortingal, there are also several places where
the ore partially appears.
   Appearances of slate are visible in several parts, particularly on
the east side of Sith-chaillin, and also in the hill above Fortingal,
the stratum evidently following the direction of the fore-men-
tioned lime bed.
   The soil in the bottom of the low valleys is generally gra-
velly and dry; farther up the hill sides, it becomes cold, yet af-
fords excellent pasturage for cattle, sheep, &c. Still higher up,
it is, in general, bleak moor, producing little grass, and covered
with heath, abounding with game of various kinds. The summits
are often free of heather, and covered with a thick carpet of beau-
tiful moss.
   Zoologx.-The animals which formerly existed among us, but
which are are now longer to be met with, were of the quadruped
kind, viz. the wild boar and the wolf. The ancient Caledonian
white cow also inhabited our forests in former times. And many
are the places which take their designation from therd several ani-


