
<APPENDIX>

lv

be so obliging, as to request some Clergyman in the neighbourhood, or
any person in your parish who can undertake such a Work, to execute it
against that time.  I trust, that no man could engage in any labour, that
could yield him more satisfaction, or could prove more useful, either to the
community in which he lives, or to society in general.  It is a pleasing cir-
cumstance to me, to have been the means of rescuing so many important
facts, and useful observations, from the oblivion which might otherwise
have been their lot.  I have the honour to be, with great regard, Sir, your
very obedient, humble servant,

     JOHN SINCLAIR.

     WHITEHALL,
     2d April 1793

   N. B. There are now only about 360 deficient parishes; and as I receive
them at the rate of about 20 weekly, and expect about a hundred from the
members who attend the Assembly, I flatter myself, that there will be hard-
ly a deficient parish on the 25th May 1793, or within three years from the
commencement of the inquiry.

     No XIX.  Note transmitted to a Number of the deficient Clergy, from
        Inverness, in May 1793.

     Flapper the last.

   SIR JOHN SINCLAIR's best compliments.  He is thus far in his way
north, to complete his corps of Fencibles; but he still hopes, that it
will be in his power to attend the conclusion of the General Assembly,
though, unfortunately, it meets uncommonly early this year.
   As the Statistical Inquiry commenced during the Assembly 1790, and is
now so much advanced, he is pursuaded, that every member of the Church
of Scotland will make every possible exertion, rather than suffer another
Assembly to pass over, with a list of deficients, however small.  He hopes
therefore, that you will have the goodness, either to bring with you the Sta-
stistical Account to the Assembly, or will send it by some friend, or will
transmit it in packets, addressed to Sir John Sinclair, at Edinburgh.-Dr
Hardy will take particular care of any Accounts that may be delivered to
him, till Sir John returns to Edinburgh.

     INVERNESS,
     2d May 1793.


