
                KILBRANDON AND KILCHATTAN.		    79

schooners, 5 galliots, 254 sloops, and 245 steamers, including
their repeated trips. Here might be seen some years ago (1828),
the engineer of the work plying his little bark across the sound,
propelled by the Archimedes screw. * This ingenious piece of
mechanism was his own invention. In this village there, is an
inn, several shops, and a post-office. There is a daily post be-
tween Easdale and Oban.
   The other villages are, Balvicar in Seil, Toberonochy, Millbay,
and Colipol in Luing. All these have been built in the vicinity
of slate quarries; and, as some of these quarries are not wrought
to any extent, being found unproductive, many of the inhabitants
of these villages are often ill supplied with employment,
   Roads.--The parish is well supplied with roads and ferries.
The public road from Oban enters the parish from the north-
east, at Clachan Bridge. It passes through the centre of Seil
and Luing. There are several cross roads, which are kept in
good repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the centre of
the parish, at the south end of the Island of Seil, close to the
Ferry of Cuan. It was built about one hundred years ago, and ac-
commodates 600 sitters. No seat rents are exacted. All the people,
except the inhabitants of Seil, have to cross a ferry, and some of
them more than one in coming to church, which circumstance,
in bad weather, prevents their attending regularly. In good
weather, the church is always crowded. Taking into account the
large population and the obstructions by ferries, there is scarcely
a parish in the Highlands or Islands of Scotland, where an addi-
tional church is more required. The great body of the people
belong to the Established Church. The number of communicants
is about 400.
    The number of Dissenters in the parish, as reported to the
Church, Commissioners in 1836, was 200. They belong chiefly
to the Covenanters and Independents. There are two persons
belonging to the Baptists, and one Roman Catholic family. Dis-
sent in this district has been owing entirely to the abuse of pa-
tronage in former times.
   The manse is sufficiently large and commodious. It was built
in 1827. Before that time, there was no manse in the parish.

<FOOTNOTE>Mr John Whyte's claims to this invention are stated in a letter addressed by him
to the Editor of the Scottish Guardian Newspaper, and inserted in that Journal of
date the 26th June 1840.


