
84                    ARGYLESHIRE.


summits of Cruachan, and the lone and lovely green corries and
valleys which they overhang and overshadow.
   This range of hills, or rather moors, terminates at length at the
base of Meall nan Tighearnan, viz. the hill of the chiefs, and
Beinachl•idh, two of the offshoots and buttresses of Beinlaoidh, or
mountain of fawns. Beinlaoidh is unquestionably the loftiest
mountain in the parish, (Bein Cruachan being situate in the pa-
rish of Ardchattan,) and although now denuded and shorn of the
woods which even at a comparatively recent period clothed and
adorned its sides, it is one of the most elegant of mountains in a dis-
trict in which it is no easy matter to adjust the competing claims of
a host of rivals for this distinction. This constitutes the western
extremity of a chain of mountains which stretches eastward, form-
ing the southern boundary of the parish of Killin, including in the
number the towering and gigantic Bein-More and Bein-Ann.
  The Cruachan chain is occasionally broken and interrupted by
interjacent corries and valleys. In the number of the latter, we
may place Glenstrae, at one period the homestead and fastness of
the chief of the brave but persecuted and proscribed Clan Gregor.
The valley which gives its name to the parish, is another. The
former, which lies immediately at the base of the principal off-
shoot of Cruachan, is separated from the latter by a ridge of hills
of comparatively low elevation, wbilst this, in its turn, is separated
from Glenlochay, a long winding valley, (through which lies the
line of communication with Perthshire,) by another range of hills
of still lower elevation. These three valleys open from the east
and north-east on that part of Glenurchy which the natives call
the Strath, or plain. Glenlochay runs nearly eastward, with a
bend or inclination to the north. Glenurchy proper, which lies
north of the other, and which inclines in the same way, opens
up a com munication with Inverness-sbire, by the Black Mount,
and the much admired and celebrated Glencoe. The river Ur-
chay, after receiving the waters of the Lochay, at a point two
miles east, from the churcb, now swollen into a beautiful river,
winds its course through the Strath, forming several beautiful
islands as it advances, amongst others that on which stand the
church and manse, and which forms the better part of the minis-
ter's glebe,--until, having received the waters of the Strae, it dis-
charges itself at length into the magnificent Lochawe, close to
the base of the ruins of Caolchurn.
   Caves, '&c.--The only cave of any interest is that in which


