
				KIRKPATRICK-JUXTA.                   133

Above L. 52 in whole are distributed annually; the heritors con-
tributing about ten shilling for every L. 100 land rent, which,
with the collections, answer in ordinary years. A general contri-
bution takes place in emergent seasons.
	Inns.--The parish contains one good inn, and two other licensed
alehouses.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	Improvements.--The improvements made since 1800 have been
very remarkable, chiefly in the church, the schools, the farm-
buildings, the roads, fences, and lands. It is not less remarkable
on the dress of the people; and has also been considerable in their
mode of living. The people are still regular in administering to
persons in want among themselves, though far more to unknown
beggars and vagrants. Some regulations against common begging
have been lately adopted, but, owing to the want of co-operation,
have been given up again.
	Lime and Coal.--Lime and coal are still very distant; the near-
est lime above 20, and the nearest coal 30, miles; and sandstone
is not worked nearer than 12 miles. The trials for coal have never
been made to a satisfactory depth in any part of this country, ex-
cept wherre it has been found and worked, at Sanquhar and Can-
nobie.
	The following notices may be added, 1st, In 1637, James John-
stone of Corehead resided at Lochhouse, and having married
Miss Whiteford, only child of the Bishop of Brechin, also parson
of Moffat, he led a valuation of the teinds of his own lands and of
those of the bishop in this parish, and in that of Moffat, only four
years after the act 1633, allowing such valuations to be made once
for all; an act to which the improvement of lands in Scotland is
greatly owing.--2d, The body of Mr John Taylor, formerly mi-
nister of Wamphray, was conveyed to and buried in, this parish;
a party of Highlandders, on their way to England, under the officers
of Charles Edward, met the procession, uncovered in passing, but
sent back a detachment after the funeral was decently concluded,
and seized on some horses.--3d, Dumgree was at one time a parish,
but was annexed partly to Johnstone and chiefly to Kirkpatrick-
Juxta, within which the unenclosed churchyard of Dumgree now
lies.--4th, The old church was covered with heath in the time of
Mr George Buchanan, who was minister in 1626. It had been
from end to end a burying-place before the Reformation; but



