
380                       KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

quent, is still denominated Rutherford's Walk. It was here, as
tradition bears, where he recognized Archbishop Usher, having
overheard him engaged in prayer on behalf of the people of his
diocese. The tradition is as follows:--The archbishop on passing
through Galloway, urged by the admiration he entertained for
Rutherford's character, paid him a visit in disguise at Anwoth,
and was most hospitably received. He arrived at Bushy-Bield
on a Saturday, on the evening of which day the minister was in
the habit of catechising his family on religious subjects. The
stranger is reported to have been asked " How many command-
ments are tbere?"--to which he answered eleven; and on being
reminded that there are only ten, he quoted, in corroboration of
the correctness of his reply, the words of our Saviour, "a new
commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another." The
ability of these answers surprised Rutherford. On the following
morning the stranger was accidentally recognised. Being over-
heard by his host, (in a thicket adjoining his favourite walk,) en-
gaged in prayer, couched in language of uncommon felicity, and
containing allusions to the people under his spiritual care, Ru-
therford immediately thereafter took an opportunity of stating
his suspicion as to the rank and character of his guest. Usher
frankly confessed the truth, and explained the circumstance on
the grouad that, being anxious to see a man of whom he had
heard so much and thought so highly, and suspecting that be
might be averse to receive the visit of a bishop if he knew him to
be such, be had been induced to assume a disguise to accomplish
his object. Rutherford welcomed him with great cordiality, as a
man venerable equally for learning and piety. He requested him
to preach to his people, as it was Sabbath, which Usher readily
consented to do, adopting the Presbyterian form of worship, and
laying aside for a time the Episcopal ceremonies. His text was
the " new commandment" mentioned above.
	There is another tradition connected with this period that can-
not be passed over in silence. Between the church of Anwoth
and Skyrehurn there is a level piece of ground on the farm of
Mossrobin, where the people, in Rutherford's days, were wont to
assemble after sermon on Sabbath, and play at football; a practice
the minister is said not to have denounced and condemned from
the pulpit only, but, following them to the scene of their amuse-
ment, solemnly to have reproved them there, calling on the ob-
				  3


