
     of Preston-pans.

chapmen of the three Lothians meet annually at Preston-
pans* , and elect some of their number, for the purpose of
holding courts to enforce the observance of bye-laws, to which
they are bound at their entrance into the society.  They elect,
on this occasion, a provost or preses, a depute, a clerk, a
treasurer, 6 bailies, and several counsellors.  There is one
bailie for Preston-pans and Cockenzie; one for Haddington
and North Berwick; one for Dunbar and Oldhamstocks;
one for Musselburgh and Dalkeith; one for Queensferry and
Borrowstounness; and one for Linlithgow and Bathgate.  Af-
ter the election they march in a body, preceded by music, to
the cross at Preston, there drink a few bottles of wine, and
then return.  In the towns where their booths are erected at
fairs, the bailie for that town gets a pawn from each chap-
man, who is bound to attend a meeting of the whole num-
ber, at an appointed hour in the evening, or next morning.
Here the behaviour of each during the fair is inquired into.
If any of the bye-laws have been transgressed, a fine is exacted
and paid.  If the offence has been gross, they are expelled.
The fines are deposited in the hands of the treasurer, and are

<FOOTNOTE>

*The place of meeting, formerly, was in an open field ad-
joining to Preston, on the second Thursday of October, at which
time a fair was held there, called St. JEROME'S FAIR.  About
the year 1732, this fair was transferred to Preston-pans, where
it was held for about 20 years, and was then given up.  No in-
formation has been obtained, that can be depended on, as to the
time when this society was first instituted, nor how they come
to hold their annual meeting at Preston.  The members re-
siding in East Lothian were always the most numerous, which
might be a reason for holding the meeting in this county; and
Preston, being situated at its western extremity, is the town
nearest to the other two Lothians.  In the year 1636, they ac-
quired a right to the Cross there, which they still preserve.  So
much is Preston now decayed, that this cross stands in a field.
The number of pack-horse chapmen is much fewer than it once
was, and they are still on the decline.  About 50 years ago,
there were 15 in East Lothian; all of whom had a good trade.


