
316                           FIFESHIRE.

Carnbee; on the north, by Cameron and Ceres; on the west, by
the parishes of Largo and Newburn, and Largo bay. It contains
about 16 square miles.
Topographical Appearances.-The surface of the parish, al-
though somewhat irregular, is so level as to be o6arly, all arable.
With the exception of Kincraig hill, the land in the south part of
the parish is, generally speaking, flat, rising gently towards the
north for four miles, till it reach Reres, and Kilbraclimont, which
form part of a ridge 600 feet above the level of the sea, terminat-
ed by Largo-Law on the west, and Kellie-Law on the east. To the
north of Reres, a deep ravine separates the south from the north
parts of the parish, making two nearly equal divisions. From this
ravine,, the land again rises gradually towards the north for two
miles, till it reach its greatest elevation, 7 50 feet at Du nikier- Law.
From this hill it declines towards the north for nearly two miles,
when by a gentle acclivity. it reaches Bruntsbields, the northern ex-
tremity of the parish.
Various parts of the parish command rich and extensive pros-
pects. From Dunikier Liw, the estuaries,of Forth and,Tay are
seen at nearly equal distances, covered, in good weather, with ships
carrying the commerce of the country to and from every quarter
of the globe. The land view here is very extensive, c6mprehend-
ing the Angus-shire, Perthshire, and Argyleshire mountains on
the north and west, and the Berwickshire hills on the south.
From Reres and Kilbracbmont, but especially - from Balearres
Craig, which projects a little more to the south, is one of the richest
and most splendid views imaginable. Here, you look down upon
all the richly wooded and highly cultivated lands, with the coast
towns and family mansions, from Dysart on the west, to Crail on
the east;-on the Fritb of Forth with its ships and islands; and
beyond it, on the fertile county of East Lothian: while Edinburgh,
with the Linlithgow and Pentland bills, terminate the view to the
south-west, the Lammermuir hills to the south, and the German
Ocean to the east
. Meteorology.-No regular meteorological tables are kept here.
The temperature varies a little in the higher and lower parts of the
parish, but the medium is about 47. The climate is very salubri-
ous, and the inhabitants are generally healthy. Diseases of an in-
fectious nature rarely appear here. Colds and inflammatory af-
fectious may be said to'be the most prevalent diseases. When


