
396                     ARGYLESHIRE.

a former period, great quantities of it used to be carried to Dum-
barton, to be manufactured into glass.
  Between Gigha and Cara lies the uninhabited islet Gigu.
lum, with a range of breakers running south-west.  Between
Gigha on the north, and Gigulum on the south, there is a sound
which affnrds good anchorage for large vessels, and is frequented by
Her Majesty's cutters, and by vessels going to and returning from
the North Highlands, as well as by vessels from England and
Ireland, which come to take away seed potatoes from this and the
neighbouring parish of Killean.
  About the middle of Gigha, on the east side, is the Bay of
Ardminish, which is frequented by vessels taking away the pro-
duce of the island, or bringing coals, lime, &c.  The church and
manse are at the head of this bay.  A little farther north, on the
same side, is the Bay of Drimyeonbeg, which is of considerable
extent, and affords good holding ground; and within a mile of the
north-east end, is the Bay of Tarbert, which, like all the bays in
the island, affords good holding ground, the bottom consisting
Chiefly of blue clay.   Though a great part of the east coast is
rocky, it is not high in any part.
  The point which extends farthest into the sea is called Ardmi-
nish point, on the north side of the bay of that name, from the
Gaelic words Ard, a height, meadhon, middle, and ness, (Danish,)
a point going out into the sea.  There are rocks outside of all the
above-mentioned bays, so that persons frequenting them would
require to be well acquainted with their position.
  The principal entrance of the Sound of Gigulum is from the
east, between Gigulum and Gigha.  The passage from the west,
which is not so easy or so safe to strangers, is between the rocks
and the Gigha side.
  The prevailing winds are south and south-west.  The native
prognosticate the state of the weather from the appearance of the
Mull of Kintyre and the Paps of Jura.  If these are capped with
clouds, rain is expected ; and if the clouds are of a whitish ap-
pearance, a gale of wind.  Sea-fowls, subh as gulls, coming about
the houses and on the arable land, are supposed to indicate very
stormy weather.
  The climate, though humid, is mild, the sea breeze blowing
over the parish in every direction.  Snow and frost are but of rare
occurrence and short duration.  Gigha is visited with less rain than
the neighbouring parishes and islands, owing to there being no


