
			 MONEYDIE.                           203

there are some parents (chiefly Dissenters) who pay no attention
to have their children registered.
	 Number of persons under 1.5 years of age,   .    375
		           upwards of 70,        .   .       39
   The number of persons at the various intermediate stages, it is
not so easy to ascertain.
	Unmarried men, bachelors and widowers upwards of 50 years of age,  28
     	          women (exclusive of widows)            45        .       22
		  widows,                                  45     .      .   42
The average number of children to a family is 3 1\2
   At present there are no persons ID The parish who can come un-
der the denominations of " insane or fatuous." There are one or
two who may be called of weak intellect; one who is deaf and
dumb, and one blind.
  Social Coinforts, &c.- The people generally speakinga are healthy
and robust, and seem upon the whole to enjoy a reasonable mea-
sure of the comforts and advantages of society.  Among the pea-
santry, the staple articles of food are potatoes and oatmeal.  There
are few cottagers who do not keep pigs; but, with the exception of
pork, animal food is rarely to be seen, except in the houses of the
more substantial farmers.
  General Character, &c.-With regard to " the general character
of the population, intellectual, moral and religious," it is believed
that they are pretty much on a footing with other parishes simi-
larly situated.  The outward forms of religion are in general punc-
tually attended to ; few, if any, habitually absent themselves from
public worship; and the general tone of morals is upon the whole
sound and healthy.  The most prevailing vice perhaps in the pre-
sent day, and in all parts of the country, is intemperance.  Among
the many causes that have contributed to bring about this melan-
choly state of things, there can be no doubt that the lowering of
the duty on spirits has bad a most material effect; at the same
time it may be questioned whether or not the needless increase in
the number of public-bouses has not contributed as largely to the
same mischievous result.  Upon this point, the following fact is
worthy of notice.  In the oldparish of Moneydie there was not, un-
til within the last six months, a single whisky shop of any descrip-
tion nor was there known to the minister a single individual ha-
bitually addicted to drunkenness.  In the Logiealmond district of
the parish, on the other hand, there are unfortunately five public-
houses, and, as might be expected, the sin of intemperance and its
accompanying vices are found to prevail in a proportionate degree.
Such a fact as this goes strongly to corroborate the view of those


