
                       ANDERSIER.                             469

covered, conviction followed, and the poor creature was burned at
a stake at a place called the Paddock.
   At no very remote period, a belief in fairies and their gambols
existed to a degree beyond the credence of the present age. We
would not vouch that some lurking dread of these airy spirits, who
"mislead night wanderers, and bootless make the breathless housewife
churn," is not still harboured by some bustling matrons.
About 1730, according to tradition, a man of the name of Munro
bad a sickly atrophied child, which he and his neighbours considered
to be a changeling substituted by the fairies at an unguarded
moment in the place of his own. There is a conical knoll in the
carse, called Tom Eanraic or Henry's knoll, which was famed as
the scene of the moonlight revels of these elves. It was believed
that if the supposed changeling were left overnight on this hillock,
the real child would be found in its stead in the morning. The infatuated
parent subjected his drooping and attenuated offspring to
this ordeal, and in the morning found it a corpse.
  Eminent Men.-The late Dr John Mackintosh, Lecturer on the
Theory and Practice of Physic in Edinburgh, and author of two
volumes on the "Pathology and Practice of Physic," and of a monograph
on "Puerperal Fever," received the rudiments of his
education in this parish. Major Pryse Gordon, author of "Personal
Memoirs and Reminiscences," and a sketch of "Holland
and Belgium," in two volumes, was born in the manse,-his father,
the Rev. Harry Gordon, being then pastor of the parish.
This gentleman, who is in his 80th year, lived in habits of intimaey
with Professor Porson, Dr Burney, Mr John Kemble, and
Monk Lewis. Major Robert Calder Campbell, E. I. C. S., son of
the late Rev. P. Campbell, is a native of the parish. Major Campbell
is the author of " Lays from the East," and the "Palmer's
last Lesson," and is an admired contributor to the " Annuals."
With considerable poetical talents, he combines a cultivated taste
for music, and has published some sets of quadrilles.
  In the annals of a parish which possesses such a fortification as
Fort-George, where breathes all 41 the pomp and circumstance of
war," it might be expected that the names of some distinguished
officers should appear. Some of the following gentlemen were
born in the parish; the others received their early education in the
school of Campbelton; the late Admiral Sir Patrick Campbell,
K. C. B., and his brother, General Sir Colin Campbell, Governor of
Ceylon; the late General Sir Alexander Caldwell, E. I. C. S.;


