
                              LONMAY.                          231

miles distant from the north-east boundary of the parish.  Peter-
head is about eight miles from the south-east boundary.
   Means of Communication.-One receiving-house for letters and
newspapers, about one-quarter of a mile west of the western boun-
dary of the parish, at Cortebrae.  One turnpike-road from Peter-
head to Banff, by Fraserburgh, traverses the parish for a mile and
half; another from Fraserburgh to Aberdeen, by Mintlaw, ex-
tends from north to south nearly six miles through the parish.
One daily mail-coach runs from the south to Fraserburgh, and
One stage-coach from Peterhead to Banff, by Mintlaw, three times
a week. *
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated within two
miles of the north-east boundary, and upwards of seven from the
south end.  From the south and much inconvenience, amounting
in many cases to absolute hindrance from attending any place of
worship, has long, too long, resulted from this arrangement.  In
March 1836, a petition was given in to the presbytery of Deer,
and signed by 103 heads of families, which describes so graphically
the spiritual wants of the people that it is here inserted: "The
petition of the householders in the southern district of the parish
of Lonmay, comprehending the whole of Kinninmonth, part of
Belfatten (in Crimonmogate), and of others residing on the bor-
ders of the contiguous parishes of Strichen, Old Deer, Longside,
and St Fergus,-Humbly sheweth, That your petitioners labour
under the grievous disadvantage of want of opportunities of pub-
lic worship, and of adequate pastoral superintendence, by reason of
the great distance which intervenes between their places of resi-
dence and their parish churches, aggravated by the impractica-
bility of accommodation in others less remote.  Adhering to the
Church of Scotland, your petitioners cannot but feel distressed
that they are themselves so frequently, and the young, the aged,
and infirm of their families, almost entirely, deprived of the means
of attendance at the house of God; and all of waiting on the mi-
nhstry of a pastor residing among them: That your petitioners
inhabit a district not less than from six to eight square miles in ex-
tent, so disadvantageously situated in the respect above shewn,
that no less than 78 families, consisting of 416 souls, in Lonmay
alone, and upwards of 60 other families, adhering to the Church
of Scotland, are from four to seven miles distant from heir re-
spective parish churches.  These families have, moreover, many

<FOOTNOTE>We have now also a stage-coach between Peterhead and Fraserburgh, which
runs through the parish.-Jan. 1840.


