
           406                          PERTHSHIRE.

           inequalities of soil as well as of surface.  From the bold and rocky
           point of Kingoody, a beautiful and gently sloping bank commences,
           and stretches in a north-westerly direction, diverging farther and
           farther from the river, as it advances, till it ends somewhat abrupt-
           ly at the Snabs of Drimmie; from which a fine view of the Carse of
           Gowrie is obtained.  The low grounds lying to the south of it and
           interposed between it and the river, are as flat almost as a bowl-
           ing-green, and the heaviest crops of grain are raised upon them.
           They consist entirely of clay, and while they bring a high rent to
           the proprietors, are cultivated by the tenantry in a style of great
           excellence.  The lands forming this bank are composed chiefly
           of a deep black loam, and yield a most abundant return, not only
           of wheat, barley and oats, like the lower grounds, but also of po-
           tatoes and turnips, for which the others are very indifferently cal-
           culated.  In a few spots, the soil is of a reddish colour, being a
           kind of clay mixed up with gravel, and usually termed mortar; but
           it is also remarkably productive.  The village of Longforgan is si-
           tuated on the ridge, at the height of 120 or 130 feet above the
           Tay; of which, with the whole intermediate country to the east,
           and particularly to the south and south-west, it commands an un-
           interrupted prospect.  A little to the north of it, the ground, which
           now falls off in point of quality, sinks into a hollow, from which
           it continues to ascend rapidly till it terminates in the hill of Dron,
           667 feet high.  In a north-westerly direction, and at a consider-
           ably greater distance, it rises mnre gradually into the hills of
           Ballo and Lochton, which constitute branches of the Sidlaws,
           and are respectively 992 and 1172 feet above the level of the
           sea.  The soil in the upper parts of the parish is inferior in value
           to that in the Carse, whhle the climate is later by ten days or a
           fortnight.  In most of the farms there, however, it is dry and well
           adapted to the turnip husbandry, which is successfully prosecuted.
           But in two or three of them it differs materially, and, resting on a
           cold retentive bottom, is wet and spongy.
              Climate.- The climate generally is very salubrious, nor are
           there any distempers peculiar to the district.  In spring and the
           early part of summer, cold easterly winds, prevail, and then the at-
           mosphere is less genial and kindly.  But the intermittent fevers,
           which were so common some fifty or sixty years ago, have entirely have entirely
           disappeared, owing in a great measure to the lands being now
           much more throughly drained and kept in a higher state of culti-
           vation.  When any epidemic visits the neighbourhood, it is perharps


