
1182                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

gress, a change of circumstances might induce new subscribers to
come forward, and those who bad already subscribed to permit the
application of their subscriptions to the finishing of the work, which
many had refused to allow, should the intended new modelling of
the constitution of the University take place.  This hope was re-
alized.  The subscriptions already made, were paid, and many new
ones received after the agitation ceased.  The Government grant
was paid, in August 1836, to the Chancellor and Rector of the
University, the Member of Parliament for the city, the Provost,
and the De`n of Guild, all for the time being, who were constitut-
ed a commission for expending it, and the sums subscribed; and
in the same month the building was contracted for.  In this tran-
saction it is proper to preserve a record of the services of Alexan-
der Bannerman, Esq. M. P. for Aberdeen, to whom the College
and the community are deeply indebted for the exertions which he
made towards obtaining the Government grant, during a negocia-
tion complicated with unusual circumstances, and continued for
several years.
   In 1841, the Lords of the Treasury, having been satisfied, from
an examination by their agent, that the sum of L.21,1000 had
been expended, ordered the accrued interest, amounting to L.5853,
9s. 2d., to be paid to the same commissioners, by means of which
they were enabled nearly to complete the building, including many
interior furnishings in the library, class-rooms, &c.; although some
expensive fittings, particularly those of the museum, remain to be
provided for.  When finished, the whole cost will be about
L.30,000; which, considering the style in which it is erected, and
the extent of accommodation afforded, may be considered as com-
paratively cheap.  In front the new college presents three sides of
a quadrangle, placed nearly on the site of the old building, which it
was necessary to keep up till the gre`tdr part of the new one was
so, far advanced as to supply accommodations for teaching the
classes.  The exterior is of Gothic architecture, partaking of that
seen in many collegiate structures in England, but in a simple and
bold style, in order to harmonize with the nature of the material,
which is the very hard and durable white granite of the vicinity.
In the centre a square tower, terminated by four ornamented tur-
rets rises to the height of nearly 100 feet from the court in front,
and, from the fall of the ground, to 120 feet from the enclosure
on the opposite side.  On both sides of the principal entrance are
open arcades, 48 feet long, by 16 wide.  On the ground-floor the
                               3


