
		             PARISH OF LANARK.

		PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		    THE REV. WILLIAM MENZIES, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name and Boundaries.--Some, trace the origin of the name
of this parish to the Latin terms Lana aid arca, quasi the wool-
chest; others to Lan-aerig, the bank of the river; or to the Gaelic
words Lan, signifying a house, repository, or church, and deare, a
bilberry. A derivation equally probable is that given by Chalmers
in his Caledonia; namely, from Llannerch, which in several, places
in Wales is applied to a slip of level ground, or a vale. *
	The parish lies pretty nearly in the centre of the county to
which it gives its name. It is of an irregular oblonf form; in the
south about 3, in the north about 5 miles broad. It is from 6 to
7 miles in length; and stretches along the eastern bank of the river
Clyde, which separates it on the south from Pettinain and Car-
michael, and on the west from Lesmahagoe. The adjacent parish
on the north is Carluke, from which it is partly divided by Mashoch
burn. Carstairs bounds it on the east. The town of Lanark is
situated in 55&deg; 34' of north latitude, and 3&deg; 5' of west longitude
from Greenwich. It may be considered as the central town of the
Lowlands, being 31 miles distant from Edinburgh, 35 from Stir-
ling, 25 from Glasgow, and 47 from Ayr.
	Topographical Appearances.--The ground nowhere rises into any
eminence deserving the name of a hill. It may be described in
general as an elevated plateau, declining on the south aad west
towards the River Clyde, sometimes in gentle slopes, sometimes
in steep declivities. From east to west, it is bisected by the
deep and irregular valley of the Mouss. The flat uplands on

<FOOTNOTE>Several places in North Britain have the same name; thus Lendrich in Kil-
madock; Lendrich in Dumblane; Lendrich in Callander; Lendrich Hill in Fos-
saway; and Drumlanrig, the former seat of the Duke of Queensberry; all these ac-
cord with the colloquial name of Lanerk, and are probably from the same British
source.
	LANARK.                           A


