
88                CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

county, is considered as forming the lowest bed of the secondary
formation, being succeeded  by beds of siliceous and caleareo-sili-
ceous flagstone and slate-clay, which occupies the great body of
the county from sea to sea, sinking at length under the highest or
uppermost of the secondary seriet;, the new red. sandstone of Dun-
net and Duncansbay Heads.
Soil.-The soil varies considerably in nature and quality in dif-
ferent parts of the parish. On the estates of Langwell and Dun-
beath in the west end, it is generally of a sharp gravelly descriptions
and; very dry. Latheronwheel and Latheron, being next in order,,
are less gravelly, but sufficiently rharp and mellow, Torse, Swiney,
and Lybster rather wet and cold I havidg for the substratum a strong
tenacious clay, which renders it later in bringing the crops to ma-
turity; whilst the estate of Clyth in the eastern extremity very
much partakes of the dry, sharp loarn of the centre and western
districts. Upon the whole, the soil may be pronounced shallow,
but easily wrought, and with good n)anagenient, capable of pro-
duting all kinds of grain,-together with clover, turnips and pota-
toes. In manv parts it abounds with detached rocks and large
stones, which form a serious obstacle to the pIGugh; and though
much has been done towards the removing of them out of the cul-
tivetted ground, yet still much remains to be done, and this circum,
stance presents a great discouragement in the way of iin provemetit
yet it nevertheless progressing rapidly.
   Zoology.-Before the introduction of sheep-farming, deer were
to be found in considerable numbers on the estates of Langwell,
Bremore -and Dunbeath, but for many years back they are rarely
to be met with; but grouse, ptarmigan, and blackcock are in great
abundance. The salmon on Athe rivers are of uncommonly fine
quality. The -rivers ot,136medale and Langwell finite when about
200 yards fr6in the sea, and  it is remarkable that the native fish
of one river are rarely to be found in the other. At the spawning
season, the salmon of both rivers seem to bear one  another com-
pany till they come to the point of separation, When, from a cu-
rwas peculiarity of natural instinct each selects its native stream.
There are  about twenty, different species of fish caught  on the
Coast. Those of greatest importance in an economical point of
view are, herrings, cod, haddocks, skate, and flounders.

                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
From the want of authentic records ass to the early history of



