
     Statistical Account

piness, they must feel themselves miserable under the pres-
sures of their present lot, and will readily look with envy at
the more fortunate condition of others.-There are a very
few sectaries* , who have occasionally come into this from
neighbouring districts.

   School.-The average number of scholars is 50.  The pay-
ments are, for reading, 1 s. 2 d.; for writing, 1 s. 6 d.; for
arithmetic, 2 s. quarterly.  The salary, which was 100 merks,
was doubled some months ago by the heritors, upon a peti-
tion from the schoolmaster.  This is the more singular, as
it was in this county that the opposition originated, against
the request of the schoolmasters of Scotland, for some small
addition to their salaries.  Such landholders as are averse from
this measure, are still, it seems, to be informed of the good con-
sequences, that have followed from the education which the
common people have received at their parish schools; other-
wise they would not, probably, hesitate to raise these useful
members of society to a situation as lucrative, at least, as that
of a ploughman.  It was no doubt a question in policy,

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is somewhat remarkable, that during the incumbency of
the late Mr GEORGE ANDERSON, a period of 36 years, not one
individual of his parishioners left the established church.  This
fact, though not without a parallel, is to be accounted for, with-
out doubt, from the prudence of his deportment, and the modera-
tion of his principles, in conjunction with the example of the heri-
tors.  Indeed it will be generally found, that every clergyman, of a
similar description, if aided by the attendance of the residing he-
ritors upon the public ordinances of religion, will lead his
hearers, in the space of a few years, into the same train of
thinking with himself.  This, it may be hinted, is the measure
to be employed for checking the Secession, rather than having
recourse to schism overtures, or inquiries concerning the growth
of schism, which have agitated the public mind at different times,
and were better calculated, than any thing which the Seceders
themselves could have devised, for promoting the growth of
schism.


