
   134                           ORKNEY.

   the passage impossible, excepting to very small vessels. But were
   this obstruction removed, which could be done without any great
   expense of time or labour, the passage would be easy to sloops of
   any size.  There is a similar oyce or inlet of the sea Tressness,                                                     ressness,
   of at least twice the extent, and without any obstruction in the
   entry.   Perhaps, both of these places might form proper stations
   for herring or cod fisheries. But should this notion be er-
   roneous, there can be no doubt that the extensive bay of Otters-
   wick, common to Lady parish and Burness, would afford stations
   along its winding shores for one or more fishing-villages.  This
   bay may be divided into the outward and inner harbours, the
   former eight, the other two miles in length.  As, in storms from
   the north-east, it is difficult for vessels to ride in safety in the outer
   harbour, on account of the violence of the sea, they usually (in
   this case) retreat to the inner harbour, where no gale, however
   strong, can do them any injury.  In some part of the outward
   harbour, the water is 12 fathoms deep, with a stiff clay bottom; in
   other parts, from 5 to I0 fathoms deep, bottom clay, with a cover-
   ing of several feet of sand.
                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      Antiquities.-There are in the parish several of those buildings
   called Picts' houses.
      I have received the following communication from Dr Wood, an
   ingenious medical gentleman, who practised several years in San-
   day:- " The island of Sanday is first mentioned in the Orkneyinga
   Saga, during the reign of Earl Paul, who having, in 1136, defeat-
   ed Earl Ronald in a sea-fight, and having captured most of his
   fleet, returned in triumph to Orkney, and invited to a splendid
   banquet all the aristrocracy of the islands, witb their friends.
   He then resolved that a watch-tower should be erected in Fair
   Isle, on which a fire should be kindled, should an army be observ-
   ed approaching from Shetland.  There was another watch-tower
   erected in Ronaldsay, and similar ones in most of the other is-
   lands, so that the signal might be seen over the whole.  He ap-
   pointed. Thorstein, the son of Havard, the son of Gunna, to take
   charge of Ronaldsay; and Magnus, his brother, to take charge of
   Sanday."*
        " Sanday is again mentioned in the year 1137, after Earl Ro-
   nald had returned to the islands.  ' Ronald sends ambassadors to
   the Bishop, begging he would intercede for him.  He afterward

   <FOOTNOTE> Vide Orkneyinga Saga, pp. 186, 187.


