
662			PERTHSHIRE.

beauties and advantages of this line came to be appreciated, the
outlay which at first must be considerable, would be found to re-
pay with interest. Travellers would prefer taking that route from
Dunkeld to Kenmore, or vice versa, ratlie'r than the present.  They
would lose nothing, and be gainers to an agreeable amount.
   In 1833, another substantial bridge was built, by subscription,
across the Garry, at the junction of the Girnaig with that river.
   Ecclesiastical Staite.-Lord Glenlyon is patron of the parish.
The church is situated in the village of Moulin, and convenient
for the greater part of the popul`tion. It is nine miles from the
north-east, and six from the north-west extremity. There are
155 families more than two; 130 more than four, and 65 more
than nine, miles from it by the nearest practicable route.  It was
built in 1830-1; the style of its architecture is the Gothic; the
altittde of the towers is inconsiderable ; the windows are, however,
of a small size, and, owing to the abutments between them, the
high is greatly obstructed, and the church in consequence, un-
comfortably dark.  It is seated for 650 ; the sittings were allocated
to the different, heritors according to their valued rent, who divid-
ed them among their respective tenantry free of rent.
   The manse was built in 1820.  The grebe, including the gar-
den and the ground occupied by the manse and offices, is about
four acres and a half, worth L. 12.  There is no grass grebe, but
the minister receives in lieu thereof, L. 1, 13s. 4d.  The stipend
is the mmimum.  There are 73 bolls, 3 firlots, 2, pecks, 1 lippy
of victual, half meal, half barley, and L. 29, 7s. 6 1/2d. in money, and
the deficiency made up by Government.
   Chapel of Ease.-In the neigbbouring parish of Blair-Atholl,
a chapel of ease, in connexion with the, Church of Scotland,
was opened in September 1836 to which a section of this pa-
rish, containing a population of 269, was annexed. The whole
population attached to the quoad spiritualia parish of Tenan-
dry, from the three parishes of Dull, Blair, and Moulin, is about
700. This is church, though located in the parish of Blair, was
trected chiefly to accommodate the people of Glenfincastle, who
are fifteen miles from Dull their parish church.  It was built and
endowed by Mr and Mrs Hay, of Seggiedein, and Miss Stewart of
St Fort. The endownment is L. 85. The allowance for com-
munion elements, L.8, 6s. 8d., is from the Sunday collections. The
appointment of the minister rets with the Founders and Endowers
during their lifetime, and thereafter devolves on the Society for


