                      HOBKIRK.                                217

to L. 22 per annum.  A juvenile school is taught by a mistress in
the lower part of the parish.  The benefits of education are duly
appreciated and universally acquired.
   Library.--A subscription library has just been commenced, and
is likely to be of considerable advantage.
   Savings-Bank.-There is no Savings bank in the parish; but
lodgments are made, chiefly by servants, in that of Jedburgh or of
Hawick.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of paupers de-
riving aid from parochial assessment is 20, at the rate of L. 4 each per
annum.  A few receive temporary assistance from the session fund.
it is gratifying to remark, that the genuine Scottish independence
is not quite gone in this district; several individuals in real need,
have manifested great reluctance to accept any parish relief.  The
total amount of assessment is about L. 80 per annum; and of church
collections. about L. 12.  There is a benefaction of L. 100 left by
Lady Yester, the interest of which is annually divided between the
heritors and the schoolmaster.
   Inns.--There is but one inn or public-house within the parish, viz.
at Bonchester Bridge on the Newcastle road.  The effects of such
establishments on the morals of the people are never good; yet there
is less drunkenness now than once prevailed.  The practice of giv-
ing licence to the keepers of the toll-gates, stubbornly maintained
by road trustees, is much to be deprecated.  If refreshment be ne-
cessary, the license might at least be restricted to ale, and thus
probably one-half of the evil would be removed.
   Fuel.--Peat, turf, and wood, are burnt in the cottars' houses, but
the fuel principally used is coal, which is brought from Northum-
berland, a distance of about twenty miles.  It may be purchased at
9d. or l0d. a cwt.  Coals could be procured both nearer and bet-
ter at Tynehead, if the Duke of Northumberland would allow a
road to be made in that quarter.  There, a level and easy com-
munication across the border might be obtained at no great ex-
pense; and it is much to be lamented that His Grace should deny
the neighbourhood so great a benefit, merely through a dislike to
break up the privacy of Keildar Castle.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The parish, within these last forty years, has been vastly improv-
ed in its general aspect; and here an acknowledgment is due to
the late Mr Wilson of Hallrule, and especially to Mr Elliot of
Wolflee.  Much waste land has been reclaimed and brought into


