
			KILBIRNIE.                         717

160 here, who have been long indifferently paid for their work,
and many of whom are occasionally thrown out of employment al-
together. They are engaged on the usual kinds of work furnished
by the Glasgow and Paisley manufacturers, and may make when
trade is ordinarily brisk, from 11s. to 12s. per week, working at
the rate of twelve hours per day. At present, many of them work
from five in the morning to ten at night, and, with all their exertions,
they will not earn above 1s. 6d. or 1s. 8d. a-day. It is highly cre-
ditable to the spirit and principles of the great body of these me-
chanics, that, amidst all their privations, they maintain a respectable
appearance, and that even when stretching their efforts to the ut-
most, in order to gain a scanty subsistence for their families, they
should rarely, if ever, fail to bestow on their children the elements
of an education, equal, at least in essentials, to that generally re-
ceived by the offspring of more affluent parents.
	There are likewise about 150 females employed by agents for
Glasgow and Paisley houses, in sprigging or flowering muslin.
This branch of industry is very well paid at present, as, without
any outlay or much broken time, an expert and diligent sewer will
earn from 7s. to 10s. a-week, though probably the average gains,
one with another, throughout the year, do not exceed 1s. per day.
This employment furnishes the means of decent support to many
respectable females, and is decidedly preferred by nearly all the
sssyoung women, natives of Kilbirnie, to working in either of the
manufactories.
        Agricultural Association.-There is no public or private asso-
ciation in this parish for the encouragement or improvement of any
branch of industry; but a few of the farmers are members of the
Ardrossan Farmer's Society, and others of the General Ayrshire
Agricultural Association, both of which have excited considerable
interest in the improvement of the breeds of cattle, and of the art
of ploughing.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Village.--The only village here is that of Kilbirnie. It is
pleasantly situated on the banks of the Garnock, and nearly
in the centre of the most populous and fertile part of the pa-
rish. It consists principally of a long street lying south and
north along the right bank of the river, and a shorter one extend-
ing westwards from its upper extremity. Two of the public works
are situated on the left of the Garnock, as are likewise a row or
two of dwelling-houses, the greater part of which are only of a few


