
         	    PARISH OF JOHNSTONE.

          PRESBYTERY OF LOCHMABEN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

              THE REV. ROBERT COLVIN, D.D. MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

	Name, Boundaries, &c.--In the most ancient records extant, the
name of this parish is Johnston, which, in Saxon, signifies the town
or dwelling-place of John, and seems to indicate that from the resi-
dence in that quarter of some illustratious person of that name in Scoto-
Saxon times, (of whom, however, no tradition exists,) the surround-
ing territory was designated. At a later period it is generally written
Johnstoun, and more recently Johnstone. From time immemorial,
it has been the undisputdd property and principal residence of the
chief of the family of Johnstone. In addition to what was anciently
so called, Johnstone * comprehends a considerable portion of the
old parishes of Garvald and Dumgree, and is now six miles in
length, and averages three in breadth, containing twenty square
miles, or nearly 13,000 imperial acres. It is nearly triangular in
its figure, and bounded on the north by the parish of Kirkpatrick-
Juxta, and on the east by Applegarth and Wamphray, from both
of which it is separated by the river Annan. On the west it is
bounded by the river Kinnel, which, with a small exception, di-
vides it from Kirkmichael, and on the south, at a narrow point for
about a mile, by the parish of Lochmaben. The confluence of
The Annan and Kinnel being about two miles below the southern
extremity, the parish is in the form of a ridge between those rivers,
the lower part of which is about 150 feet above the level of the
sea, the height of the ridge rising gradually to 700 or 800 feet.
Between these rivers the whole parish is situated, with the excep-
tion of 2000 or 3000 acres on the west of the Kinnel, which

<FOOTNOTE>In Bagimont's Roll, the rectory of Johnstone, in the deanery of Annandale,
was taxed L. 2, 13s. 4d. The advowson belonged, both before and after the Refor-
mation, to the family of Johnstone, the Lords of the Manor, in whom the rhght of
patronage is still vested."--Vide Chalm. caled. Vol. iii. p. 179.


