
     General Appendix to   [Vol. xiii.

The fine appearance of this bridge attracts the attention of
travellers, as they enter or leave the north end of the town.
-As a youth of singular talents, I cannot omit mentioning
Lieutenant Charles Pasley, of the Royal Artillery, (a relation
to the brave Admiral of the same name.)  At the age of 12,
he was as great a proficient in Latin, Greek and French, as
his master, eminent in his profession, could make him.  He
acquired mathematics almost intuitively.  No task in algebra
was difficult to him.  Drawing without the aid of a master,
printing with a pen in a neat and beautiful manner, and wri-
ting verses, in which he discovered much fancy and humour,
were the subjects of his amusement.  His `Wars of Lang-
holm,' a Latin composition, are not only replete with ge-
nuine humour, but also classically correct.  His taste for his-
tory and voyages was insatiable; but he could not endure no-
vels, or any of that light reading, of which young people are
generally so fond.  To the great acuteness of his understand-
ing, he added also a most retentive memory.  His years con-
sidered, (going 17,) he certainly possesses extraordinary and
almost universal abilities.  About two years ago, he was ap-
pointed a cadet of the Royal Academy at Woolwich; and
about two months ago, promoted as above.-It would ex-
ceed the bounds allotted to a report of this kind to mention
many other young men who have gone from this parish to
India, and other places abroad, and are promising to do much
credit to their natale solum, in the army and navy; and in the
medical and mercantile professions.  No parish, perhaps, in
Scotland, of its extent, can produce such a number.
   I mean no disrespect to the above respectable list, by add-
ing to it the name of Archie Armstrong, who, after having
long distinguished himself as a most dextrous sheep-stealer,
and when Eskdale at last became too hot for him, on account
of his nefarious practices, had the honour of being appointed


