
     Statistical Account

sed, and in a degree not less, it is believed, than in any other
part of Scotland.  It is occasioned partly by the damp of their
houses, though no district is better provided in wood and coal
for feul; and partly, by their sleeping in the open air at mid-day,
when their work is finished; and by sitting down to cool them-
selves when over-heated, instead of putting on their clothes,
and keeping themselves in motion for a while*.

   Miscellaneous Remarks.-There are 3 Seceders, and 1 E-
piscopal family.-The stipend received an augmentation in
1771, and is now worth about L. 90.  The Glebe is a poor one.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The vestiges of a Roman Costeilum Statium are still to be seen, upon the
estate of Whiteburgh, in the S. W. part of the parish.  It was of a circular
form, and consisted of 3 walls, at the distance of 15 feet from each other,
built with very large stones, and with cement only at the bottom.  It occu-
pied more than an acre of ground.  No information can be got about the
height of the walls; but the proprietor of the lands remembers that the
parts of them which he has seen, were 16 feet thick.  The whole work has
been carried off at different times for building the present house and offices of
Whiteburgh, and some farm houses upon the estate.-Near it were several
tumuli, in which were urns full of bones or ashes.  In the camp itself, were
found a medal of Trajan, a sibula, a patera, and a horn of a moose deer.-
In its near neighbourhood, but in other parishes, are 3 other encampments,
situated in such a manner, as gives room to suppose, that the whole were in-
tended to act in concert, and overlook the Lothians.-Perhaps the house
of Keith, one of the seats of the Earl Marishal, though of no later date than
1590, may be mentioned on account of its hall, which surpassed any thing of
the kind, and was suited to the splendor of a family at that time the most o-
pulent and powerful in the kingdom.  The house itself was of the form of
a hollow square; and one entire side of it, 110 feet in extent, and 3 stories in
height, was occupied as a hall.  Succeding proprietors have pulled it down.
The timber with which the house was built, was a present from the King of
Denmark, as an expression of the high opinion he conceived of the Earl, when
employed to treat of the marriage of the Princess Anne of Denmark, with
James VI.


