
     of Bothwell.

strength of stamina, than to fine air or climate, else the ef-
fects of these would be more equally felt.

   Wood and Planting.-The woods are chiefly beside the
proprietors seats, and upon the banks of the waters, where
there is a good deal of coppice, and several large planta-
tions.  Some of fir, planted many years since, had arrived
to a considerable size, and were lately sold to a good ac-
count; but enough is left, both for ornament and shelter.
Many plots and strips were made lately, and promise well.
One of the finest places in the parish derives its name*
from the extensive woods and plantations about it.
   The woody banks of the Clyde and Calders, are fre-
quented by the usual tenants of the groves of Caledonia,
particularly the thrush and blackbird.  The village and
manse, on account of the planting, are highly favoured
with the music of these two melodious birds, especially the
last.

<TABLE=Population.>

   
             Under 15 years of age,               1112
             From 15 to 70,                       1535
             Above 70,                              60
                                                 -----                      
                                        In all,   2707+

                                                      Males
           *Woodhall.
                              +Local Divisions.
           Woodhall, Lauchope, Sideridge,               779
           Stevenson, Cleland, Carfin, Tirviston,       495
           Orbiston, upper and lower,                   526
           Back of moor, Carnbroe,                      195
           Uddingston, and out farms,                   287
           Bothwell, out farms, and Bothwell Castle,    425
                                                       -----
                                                       2707
</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

   This division may gratify posterity, as by it they will fee the increase
or decrease not only of the parish in general, but of these arrangements
and estates in particular.


