
			PENNNINGHAME.			       181

though there is not the attention paid to these matters that could
be wished, there is not much avowed neglect. The frequent,
shifting of the population in Newtonstewart diminishes much the
influence of pastoral superintendence on part of the population.
The great distance from the parish church in some cases, and the
want of due accommodation, render the attendance at church less
than it would otherwise be. The want of suitable clothing, too,
is not unfrequently pled as an excuse for absence from public wor-
ship. But the two last assigned causes--want of accommodation,
and indifferent clothing--have been met by an additional service
in the church at six o'clock on Sabbath evening; at which the
attendance is very respectable, and increasing.
	Poaching in game is carried on to a great extent, and is de-
cidedly a most demoralizing practice. Facilities seem to have been
given to poaching by the act authorizing the sale of game; and the
temptations are increased by the ready steam communication with
England. Poaching in this parish brings uniformly both indivi-
duals and their families to misery and ruin. It is believed that there
is now very little poaching in the salmon-fisheries. The rivers are
carefully watched.
	Smuggling has for a long time decreased in this parish, and
is now scarcely known.

<TABLE=Industry>
				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--
Number of acres imperial, cultivated or occasionally in tillage, about		12,000
			  that have never been cultivated, about		20,000
			  of meadow, about 					  1600
Besides the preceding, there is a great number of acres of moss,
of which I am not able to procure any accurate measurement.
Drom the size of the parish, as already calculated in miles, there
are about 4000 acres of moss, lakes, roads, &c. and that quantity
corresponds nearly with the conjectural measurement.
	Of the acres in pasture that might bd cultivated with advantage,
there are about 1200 marked in the returns from the far-
mers; but I am satisfied that much more of that land might be im-
proved by being ploughed and laid down in grass, to remain in
pasture. Some of the meadow land would carry good crops of
grain, but it is more profitable in the present state. What por-
tion of the moss might be improved profitably, it is impossible to
state. There is no land in this parish in a state of undivided com-
mon. There are about 600 acres under wood. There is little


