
     Statistical Account

of Perth pays the duty of a post chaise for some time.  We
have many ale-houses, or rather dram houses.  What a pity,
that there sinks of iniquity should have such unbounded liberty,
where the morals of the people are corrupted, their constitu-
tions ruined, and their sunstance squandered away*!

   Roads and Bridges.-Our roads are in tolerable order, con-
sidering their number.  Our statute service is partly commut-
ed, and partly exacted in labour, as the gentlemen see the pro-
bability of its turning out to th best account.  Several bridges
have been lately erected, and are properly taken care of.  We
owe much of our convenience in this respect to the funds of
the annexed estates, and to the public spirit of the country at
large.

   Antiquities.-The charter of the family of Leney, which,
at present, is represented by Mr Hamilton of Bardowie, is
very singular.  ALEXANDER II., on the 25th of October, in
the 23d year of his reign, which corresponds to the 1237 year
of the Christian aera, confirmed by a written charter, Alano de
Lani et Margarita de Lani, the possession of the estate, which
had been formerly granted by king CALENUS to Gillespic
Moir de Lani, militi, to be held, virtute Gladii parvi.  This
charter is not only a curiosity for its antiquity, but it appears

<FOOTNOTE>

*The licenses to retail spirits are too easily obtained.  While many taxes,
which fall very heavy on the poor and industrious, are necessary for the support
of the public expence, these tippling houses, in a great measure, go seart free.
There is perhaps as much duty laid on the malt, and on distillery, as they can
bear and be productive; but the retailers of spirits, in low houses, are very
tenderly dealt with.  A guinea or two, upon every license to sell spirits of any
kind, and in any quantity, and upon any road, would bring a prodigious reve-
nue to government, and amend the morals of the people.  And it is better in
all cases to prevent, than to punish crimes.  Dramming is not only a luxury
but a pernicious luxury.  Many of our luxuries have a tendency to make us
more industrious; but when will the seller or drinker of drams be industrious?


