
     of Tibbermuir.

the town of Perth, where it not only serves the corn-mills,
and supplies the inhabitants with water, but has also contri-
buted, probably, in former times, to strengthen the fortifica-
tions of the place; for, when it approaches Perth, it divides
itself into two branches, which surround the town in a deep
bed, close to the site of the ancient walls.  But it is chiefly
in its connection with the corn-mills, that we are enabled to
trace its antiquity.  The mills of Perth, as served by this ca-
nal, or lead, having been originally the property of the kings
of Scotland, are mentioned by them in several very ancient
charters; and in the year 1244, we find Alexander II. grant-
ing to the Monastery of Black Friars of Perth, a pipe of
water from this canal, which he there denominates his.  Mill-
lead, conformably to the name of The King's Lead, which it
still bears*.  Upon this evidence alone, the canal in question
may undoubtedly be ranked among the earliest work of uti-
lity in our country, of which we still enjoy the advantage.
It is difficult, indeed, to give credit to our own ancestors at so
early a period, for all the enterprise and industry which it re-
quired.  And when we recollect its probable design, origi-
nally, as an aid to the fortifications of Perth, it will not per-
haps be unnatural to suppose it a Roman work;-at least,
this idea will not appear improbable in those, who, from dif-
ferent circumstances, and particularly from the form and ar-
rangement of the streets of Perth, ascribe the town itself to
the Romans+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*See the chartulary of the black friars of Perth in the Ar-
chives of King James's Hospital there.
+Whatever there may be in this supposition respecting the
canal, it appears to derive some additional countenance from
the family-history of the Mercers of Aldie, which enables us, as
far as we may consider it authentic, to trace the corn mills of
Perth, and consequently this canal or lead upon which they de-
pended, to a period at least considerably earlier than the year


