
		   COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.                        373

situations of the county, taken as whole, than any other kind of oat
whatever.
   It is almost unnecessary to add, that potatoes are every where cul-
tivated, although generally only for domestic use.  In the farm ro-
tation they are sometimes substituted for a part of the turnip
crop, but more frequently they are grown on a part of the land, al-
lotted for pease and beans, and are always found an excellent pre-
parative for wheat or barley.
   Almost the whole arable lands of the county have been limed
within the last thirty years. Lime obviously acts as a chemical
agent, and its effects have consequently been much more conspi-
cuous on some soils than on others.  On deep dry rich land, it
does not operate so powerfully as on thin soils of every descrip-
tion, more especially if they contain any thing of a ferruginous cha-
racter, where, by neutralizing the oxide of iron, or other ingredients
alike pernicious to vegetation, the effects of time have been found
equally beneficial as permanent.  The abundant upply of that
valuable mineral has therefore been of the utmost consequence to
the successful cultivation of a very considerable portion of the land
of the Country.
   Draing is another branch of rural industry that has long been
particularly attended to.  Till of late, the great object of the prac-
tice was to free the land of spring-water, that used to rise to the
surface, and souring the soil, checked and enfeebled vegetation of
every description.  Drains from three to four feet deep, and filled
with stones, was the mode employed, and in many cases is still the
practice.  But within these few years, the plan of tile-draining has
been introduced, with the view  to relieve the land from rain or su
face water, as well as from springs, and generally so far as it has
as yet been carried, with very great success.  All cross or water fur-
rows bid fair to  be got entirely rid of, which have hitherto en-
tailed a constant expense in clearing out, on the occupiers of all
clay land farms.  These drains are always made in the furrows be-
tween the ridges commonly in every alternate furrow, and as the
ridges are often about eighteen feet wide, it gives a drain in every
thirty-six feet.  The drains are, for the most part nearly two feet
deep, and where the subsoil is of soft material, flats are used along
with the curved covering tiles.  The expense runs from L.4 to
L.5 per acre when the drains are in alternate furrows; it is, there-
fore, a serious matter to drain an extensive farm.  Yet such are
the immense advantages on all lands with a retentive sub soil, that


