         
      64                    ROSS  AND CROMARTY.

     headlands, bays, or islands.  The clay in the shore is used as mor-
     tar in building houses, and also as compost in muddings.  There
     is a considerable variety in the soil of this parish.  You will find,
     even on one and the same farm, light loam, gravel, red and deep
     blue clay.  Broom is natural to the soil; many fields, if left unplough-
     ed for three years, would be nearly covered over with a luxuriant
     crop of broom.  There are many fields, particularly on the Red-
     castle property, covered thickly over with small stones; and though
     they are taken away this season at a considerable expense, yet the
     same process must be gone through, when the land is again brought
     under the plough.  Nearly the whole soil of this parish rests upon
     a reddish freestone (the old red sandstone,) easily dressed, and when
     well selected, very eligible for buildings ofany description.  A quarry
     of this freestone has been worked for hundreds of years.  Inverness
     has been supplied from it; and the locks of the Caledonian Canal
     were built with stones taken from it.  Other smaller quarries have
     been opened up, of late years, in several districts of the parish, of
     the same colour and quality, for the purpose of building farm-
     houses, farm-squares, & c.
       Climate, & c-- The prevalent diseases are, measles, hooping-
     cough, scarlet and typhus fever, asthma; consumption rare; liver
     complaint not frequent; the small-pox nearly extirpated by vac-
     cine inoculation.  The prevailing 'Winds are' the east and the
     west.  We have more rain from the east than the west.  The north
     wind is not so much felt here as the west and south-west.  The
     inhabitants are generally bealtby,- and many of them live to a great
     age.  One man, born in the parish, died within the last fourteen
     years, at the advanced age of one hundred and six years, and he
     was able to attend regularly at church till within a year and a-half
     of his death.  He retained his mental faculties pretty entire to the
     last.  He learned more, during the last seven years of his life, of
     the mysteries of the kingdom of God, than be did during the
     whole of his preceding life.  There are several persons now in the
     parish, both men and women, above eighty years of age.*
      
        Hydrography.--Asalready observed, the Frith of Beauly bounds
     this parish on the south, along its whole line from west to east.
     The water of this Frith is blackish in its colour, arising from the
     great quantity of moss mud carried down by the river Beauly when

     <FOOTNOTE>
     The man who precented in church, in the times of my two immediate predeces-
     sors, is now above eighty, and still precents in the Gaelic service occasionally,--works
     at his loom as formerly,--and continues to enjoy excellent health and spirits.

