
        			MUIRKIRK. 				147

ance of people from the surrounding district. A good deal of busi,
ness is transacted, and a number of cattle disposed of. There is
also a race run on this occasion, which tends to increase the con-
course of persons. At the latter, which has only been recently in-
stituted, the attendance is but small.
        Fuel.--The fuel used in the parish is peat and coal; peat in the
higher districts, and coal in the villages and places adjacent. Till
of late, coal was found inconsiderable quantities in the immediate
neighbourhood of the village of Sorn, and the price was in conse-
quence very moderate, 3s. per cart of 12 cwt. laid down at the
doors of the villagers. At present the coal used in the parish is
brought from the parish of Auchinleck, a distance of about four
miles, and with the rise of price which has taken place in that ar-
ticle during the present year, and the additional cost of cartage, a
cart of 12 cwt. of coals, laid down in the village of Sorn, costs
5s. 3d. An attempt, however, is now making on an extensive scale
to raise coal in the parish, and should it be successful, of which
there seems a probability, this district will, as in times past, be
abundantly supplied with coals, and the dwellings of the poor and
labouring classes be again cheered by that great alleviation of the
ills of poverty,--a comfortable fire.

	July 1837.

			PARISH OF MUIRKIRK.

	     PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		 THE REV. JAMES SYMINGTON, MINISTER.*

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--MUIRKIRK is the most easterly parish of the county of
Ayr, and was known in former times, by the title of "the Muirkirk
of Kyle." Until about the year 1626, it constituted a part of
the parish of Mauchline, and was subject to the jurisdiction of
Earl of Loudon. A separate provision was at that time made for a
minister and a building erected for public worship.
	Extent, &c.--The parish is about 8 miles in length from east

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late Incumbent, the Rev. Alexander Brown.


