
276                       FORFARSHIRE

	It was the port of Montrose that Lord James Douglas, at
tended with a numerous retinue of knights and esquires, set sail in
the spring of 1330, in execution of the last charge committed to
his care by his deceased master, King Robert Bruce, to carry his
heart to Jerusalem to be deposited in the Holy Sepulchre.
	John Erskine, Laird of Dun, grandfather to the associ`td
of John Knox in promoting the Reformation in Scotland, treated
the inhabitants of Montrose in the most tyrannical and arbitrary
manner. The oppressions of him and of his family at lenght be-
came so insupportable, that the town applied to the king for re-
dress, and in the subjoined Royal warrant, issued in consequence
of that application, we have a striking and interesting illustration
of the state of the country in feudal times. *

                  This John the Balliol dyspoyled he
                  Of all his robys of ryaltie.
                  The pelure thai tuk off his tabart,
                  Turne tabart he was callyt aftywart."
                                                  WYNTON, Vol. ii. p. 68

been thought proper to mention it. The former part of the statement in the text is ex-
tracted from Sir James Balfour's Annals, and a similar account is given by Wynton.
                  This John the Balliol, on purpos,
                  He tuk and browcht bym tol Munros,
                  And in the castell of that town,
                  That then was famous in renown,

<FOOTNOTE>Summons of Spulzie, Burgh of Montrose v. Erskine of Dun, 4th October 1493.
--James, be the grace of God, King of Scottis, till our Scheref of Forfare ande his
deputis, & to our lovittis, Alexander Bannerman, Js, Ramsay & John of Stratch-
euchlin, & Andro Gardiner, oure Schereffis in that part, conjuctlies and severallie
speciallie constitut, greeting,--Forsamekle as it is humily menit & complenit to us, by
our louittes, the bailzeis, burgessis, & communite of our burgh of Montross, that now
of Isite John of Erskin, zounger of Dun, Maister Robt. Erskin, Walter Erskin,
Thomas Erskin, with their complicis, household folkis, & servitoris to John Erskin,
elder of Dun, & of his causing, has maisterfully eite & distroit all yair cornis yat grew
yis zero upone ye commone landis of our said burgh: & incontinent therafter, ye
saidis personis, with yair complicis bodin in fere of, were with speris and bowis come
to our said burgh under silence of nyeht for ye destruction & slauchtere of oure leigis,
inhabitants yairof, & bostit ye alderman of ye samyn, he being in his bed, saying yai
suld pul down his houss above his hede: And alss, quhar ye fycharis of our said burgh,
yair wyffis & servandis, were now of laite gederande bait to yair lynis, in our watter,
likeas yai haff usit & done but impediment, sene ye first foundacion of our said burgh,
ye said John Erskin, elder, send his servitoris & folkis & spoilzeit yairn of yair clathis,
& as zit withholdis ye samyn, rydis bodin in fere of were, nychtly and dailie waitis
ye nychtburis of our saide burgh for yair uttir distructinn & slauchter; and haldis
his folkis onbushit in his Innis, within our said burgh, to invaid ye nychtburis yairof
in yet wine, yat for dreid of lyffis yai dare not pass utouth ye samyn to merkates,
nor nain by-placis, bot are oppressit and balden onder subjection by ye saidis personis
& yair complices, by ye committing of yir injuris, & mony uyeris oppressionis upon
yaim, bath of ald & new, as diveriss billie & complaintis present to us, onder the se-
crete sele of our said burgh yereupon proportis, to the grit grit lychtlying and derogacione
of our authorite riall in yat pairt, yat is oblist to defend al our legis fra oppressione
both to burgh & land within our realme, & in evil example to uyeris to committ aic-
lyke offences, geff we suffer yir unpunist,--Our will is herefore, & we charge zou
straitly, & commandis, yat ze peremptorilie summonde, warn, & charge ye saidis Johne
of Erskin, elder, John of Erskin, zounger, Maister Robert Erskin, Walter Erskin,
& Thomas Erskin, to compare before us, & our counsale at Edinburgh, or quhare it


