
292                               AYRSHIRE.

the woods in the neighbourhood of Caldwell. It is supposed that
their number does not exceed eight or nine. The fox has nearly
disappeared, though it is still occasionally soon.
	The following birds are found in great numbers: blackbird,
thrush, bullfinch, lark, curlew, grey and green linnet, rail, and
partridge. The pleasant, missel-thrush, goldfinch, heron, wild-
duck, teal, and snipe, are to be met with, but they are not nume-
rous. The starling, which a few years ago was almost unknown,
is now very common.
	In the Lugton, pike and trout abound, and the other small
streams are well stored with burn trouts. The Glazert is said to
have produced char in former times, but they are not now found
in it.

                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	Accounts of the Parish.--In Robertson's topographical descrip-
tion of Cunninghame, a short account is given of the parish of
Dunlop. The author's attention is chiefly directed to family his-
tory. A series of maps of the different parishes in Cunninghame
was published a few years ago by Mr Aitken, land-surveyor, Beith.
These maps are supposed to be very correct.
	Eminent Characters.--Several persons who have highly distin-
guished themselves have been connected with this parish by birth
or residence. The learned John Major or Mair, the instructor
of Knox, while Professor of Theology at Glasgow, was also vicar
of Dunlop, in which character it may be supposed he was at least
occasionally resident in the parish.  *
	James Hamilton, Viscount Clandeboyes, eldest son of Hans
Hamilton, Vicar of Dunlop, by his talents and success, reflects
honour on his native parish. He was sent to Ireland by James
VI. in the year 1587, along with James Fullarton to keep
up a correspondence with the Protestants of that kingdom, and
communicate intelligence from time to time as to the designs of
the Irish, in the event of Queen Elizabeth's death. The better
to conceal their design, they opened a school in Dulblin for the
education of Protestant youth. After teaching privately for se-

<FOOTNOTE>
	* His connection with this parish this shewn by the following extracts from the
Old Registered entitled, "Annales Universitatis Glasguensis." Under date 3d No-
vember 1518, there is the following entry, "Eodem die, incorporati sub dicto Dno
Rectore, Egregius vir. Mag,. Johannes Majoris, Doctor Parisiensis ac principalis
regens Collegie et padagogii dicte Universitatis, Canonicusque Capelli regie, ac vi-
carius de Dunlop," &c. Under date 24th May 1522, he is designed "Theologie pro-
fesor, thesaurarius Capelle regie Strivilingensis, Vicariusque de Dunlop."--M'Crie's
Life of Knox, Vol. i. p. 340, 841.


