
408                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

of ornament to these places, as well as beneficial to the royal de-
mesne.
  Considering the remote antiquity of the castle, we may con-
clude with great confidence, that the nucleus of the town would
be formed at a very early period.  Indeed, the existence of the
burgh at a date antecedent to 1120, and its early importance,
which we shall have occasion afterwards to show, demonstrate this.
The higher portion of the adjoining declivity would be gradually
covered with houses; and at a subsequent period, while the mo-
narchs frequently resided, and held their courts, in the castle, many
of the nobility and gentry of the kingdom would be attracted to
reside in, and would give a rapidly growing importance to, the
town.  The existence of Marr's work, erected in 1570 by the Re-
gent of that name, and the traditions that prevail on good autho-
rity respecting one or two very old houses, and the sites of seve-
ral modern ones, chiefly in or near to Broad Street, illustrate the
probability of this account of its earlier history.  That the resi-
dence of the kings of the Stewart family, and the occasional
meetings of parliament, and similar circumstances, conferred upon
it a distinction, which occasioned a rivalship with Edinburgh for
metropolitan supremacy, is well established; and it is said, that
the title of the latter to be regarded as the capital of the kingdom
was only settled by the accident of its chief magistrate being able
to anticipate the provost of Stirling, in taking precedence of all
the other burghs at some public procession, or festive entertain-
ment.  It does not appear, however, to have been a place of any
considerable trade; and its population, down to about the middle
of the last century, does not seem ever to have exceeded between
three and four thousand inhabitants.  The following notices of
events of historical importance may be given.
  It was here that the reforming preachers, Paul Methven,
John Christison, William Harlaw, and John Willock, were sum-
moned by the Queen Regent to stand their trial before the justi-
ciary court, on the 1Oth of May 1559, for disregarding the procla-
mation forbidding them to preach what she called heresy, and,
as she pretended, exciting tumults and seditions among the people.
This summons having been, after much tergiversation and treachery
on her part, peremptorily renewed, brought on the crisis, to
which the affairs of the Reformation in Scotland had been for some
time evidently tending.  The nobles and gentlemen who had em-
braced the Protestant doctrines mustered in force for the proteo


