
234                         PERTHSHIRE.

no register will be ever quite complete, till it be made imperative
on Dissenters and all persons to record the baptism of their
children.
   Antiquities.-In the park of Belmont, there is a tumulus call-
ed "Belliduff," which tradition gives as the spot where M'Duff
slew Macbeth; and about a mile distant, stands a large whinstone
nodule, or block of twenty tons weight, called Macbeth's stone.
In all probability there has been fighting near these apparently
sepulchral monuments; but it is more probable that Macbeth was
slain at Lumphanan in the Mearns.
   A font or trough for holy water was dug out of the rubbish,
when the body of the old church was taken down. Its form is oc-
tagonal, each compartment having some emblem of the crucifixion
upon it, as the "mock robe," the "spear and sponge," &c. It is
a very hard stone, and placed on a pedestal in the minister's gar-
den.
   In the church-yard are the remains of the famous sepulchral
monument of Vanora, or Guinevar, wife of the fabulous King Ar-
thur, according to tradition. It relates that Arthur lived in the
sixth century-that he lost a battle with the Picts and Scots-
and that Vanora was made a prisoner, and detained in captivity on
Barryhill, distant about two miles and a half from Meigle. Barry-
hill, in the parish of Alyth, was fortified of old. Vanora, says tra-
dition, held an unlawful intercourse with Mordred, a Pictish King;
and Arthur, when he received her again, enraged at her infidelity,
caused her to be torn to pieces by wild beasts. She was buried at
Meigle, and a monument erected to perpetuate her infamy. Such
is the traditional story. But even Arthur's existence is now doubt-
ed, while of the Arthur of romance every one has heard.
   The monumental stones called Vanora's have been described
so often, and so minutely, that it seems unnecessary to dilate upon
them in a work intended to be as concise as possible. Pennant,
Dr Playfair, Pinkerton, Forsyth, and Knox, have given ample de-
tails, and to them the curious inquirer will at any rate have re-
course. Let it suffice to say, that on each of these stones, now quite
separated, there is a variety of sculptured figures, chiefly of the
monstrous kind. One is a huge serpent fastened to a bull's mouth;
another like a centaur-and there are two representations of wild
beasts tearing a human body, -and one where the body seems
tied or close to chariot wheels,-which may relate to Vanora, or
may have given rise to the tradition.


