
590                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

by a great military road running in the direction of Edinburgh,
the east end of the Pentlands, mid the Eildon hills. A part of
this Roman road towards Edinburgh could be traced about a
century ago, though even then much effaced by the plough,* and
small portions seem still to remain within the grounds of Cramond
House, as lately ascertained on planting some trees. From the
discovered inscriptions, this station appears at one time to have
been occupied by both the second and twentieth legions-two of
the legions employed under Lollius Urbicus in forming the ram-
part and military road of Antoninus, from the Clyde to the Forth,
about the middle of the second century of the Christian era.+
   Boundaries.-This parish is bounded on the north by the Frith
of Forth; on the east by St Cuthbert's; on the south by the pa-
rish of Corstorphin ; and on the west by the parishes of Kirk-
liston and Dalmeny. Six miles is the greatest length, and about
two its greatest breadth.
   Lying along the line of coast and the Almond, besides embra-
cing a part of Dalmeny Park, it has in general a rich and inte-
resting appearance, being diversified by swelling hill and finely
wooded mansion, as well as highly cultivated and extended fields.
   Botany.-The portion of the parish which stretches along the
sea side from Wardie burn to the Cockle burn in Dalmeny Park,
may be considered the locality in which those plants occur
which particularly characterize it from the more inland districts.
The more useful of these, with a few along the wooded banks of
the Almond, may be given-distinguishing the apparently introdu-
ced, though British, by an asterisk prefixed.

Arundo, arenaria\++	Plantago maritima	      *Ribes alpinum
Carex arenaria          --------coronopus	      *Medicago sativa
Triticum junceum	      Thalictrum minus	         Daucus carota
Juncus compressus	      Astragalus hypoglottis     Cichoreum Intybus

<FOOTNOTE>See Gordon's Itinerarium Septentrionale, Lond. 1726, Fol.p.117.  Maitland also
mentions distinct visible traces of this military way in his time, both on Echlin moor,
south-west of Queensferry, and towards the burn at the east end of the Pentlands. A
small part of the old Linton road at Bowbridge, overgrown with furze, still points
out the line of this latter portion ; but Echlin moor itself has now disappeared in
cultivated fields.-See Maitland's History and Antiquities of Scotland.
           From two inscriptions, the one found at Castlecary, and the other at Cramond,
the first cohort of the Tungrians, from the banks of the Maese, seem also to have been
stationed at Cramond, find likewise to have executed a part of this great work, com-
monly called Graham's Dike, which is probably only a corrupted form of the Celtic
Grim-dige, a war-fosse.-See Gordon's Itiner. Sept., and Roy's Military Antiquities
of the Romans in Britain.
           The sea-reed, independently of its use for binding sand banks, has been
variously  employed as a substitute for the mat-weed of Spain (Lygeum spartum), which was an-
ciently in general use for making cordage both for naval and other purpose--"quanto
sit in usu omnibus terris navium armamentis, machinis edificationum, aliisque desi-
deriis vitze."-Plin. N. Hist., Lib. xiv. cap. ii.


