
			   CRAIG.                          259

Church, with the exception of one old woman, who is an Episco-
palian, another, who is an Independent, and one family of Se-
ceders. It may also happen occasionally that some of the crew
of the coast guard are  Episcopalians,--but even in that case they
usually attend the parish church. A few families have returned
from the Secession to the Established Church within the last
twenty years. Divine service is generally well attended, both at
the parish church and at the Sabbath evening lectures in the fish-
ing villages. The average number of communicants is nearly 500.
	An Association for religious purposes has existed for many years
in the parish, chiefly under the direction of the ladies residing
within its bounds; but it is at present in contemplation to connect
this association more immediately with the missions and other re-
ligious institutions under the direction of the Established Church.
	The average amount of the yearly contributions of said Associa-
tion may be estimated at L. 10. The amount of church collec-
tions for similar purposes, at the same sum.
	Education.--The number of schools in the parish at present is
4. Of parochial schools, 1; of unendowed schools, 2; supported
by individuals, 1.*
	In the parish school, are taught, English, writing, arithmetic
geography, navigation, mathematics, Latin, and Greek. In one
of the other schools, English, writing, and arithmetic; and in the
remaining two, which are taught by females, the only branch of
education is English reading, with sewing and knitting.
	The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L. 34; the amount
of fees actually drawn, L. 17; The amount of session fees, &c.
L. 13. The parochial teacher has the legal accommodations; and
the dwelling-house is of a superior description to those usually pro-
vided in the country.
	I am not aware of there being any individual in the parish who
is altogether unable to read; but many of the females, especially
in the fishing villages, are unable to write. The people are very
much alive to the benefits of education, and make great exertions
to procure it for their children. No additional schools are required,
except a female teacher for very young children at Usan. The
greatest number of scholars at all the week-day schools during the
year 1834 was 183.

<FOOTNOTE>his school is situated within the boundary line of the parish of Marytown, but
is supported by Mrs Arkley of Dunninald, and attended principally by children from
thisp parish. An infant school was instituted in 1834 at Ferryden,--at which 84
scholars under six years of age are taught.


