
     Statistical Account

trary, the M'Donalds of the Isles assumed regal powers, and
actually held parliaments, or meetings of a similar nature,
where they enacted laws.-The dispute between Baliol and
Bruce changed this scene.  The Bruces travelled through Ar-
gyleshire in the course of their peregrinations.  After they
were established upon the throne, this part of their domini-
ons became an object.  They brought the M'Donalds and o-
ther clans to some kind of subordination.  At last, they built
fortresses; and gave the command of them to military captains.
From this time, in their different wars with the English, they
had recourse to the assistance of the Highlanders.  It became
necessary for the chieftains to lead their followers to the low
country; and of course to contract debts.
   From this acra, the condition of the middling ranks became
worse; for the chiefs found it necessary to lay on an addition
to their yearly revenue, in order to defray the expence incurred
in attending the sovereign.  This innovation, in some mea-
sure, slackened the ancient friendship; and, in order to en-
force obedience, it was necessary to have recourse to penal laws.
The king accordingly gratified his feudal barons in this respect;
indeed he could not act otherwise, for these barons were al-
ways formidable to his throne.
   The first dawn of kingly government produced gibbets upon
almost every feudal estate.  Without trial or jury, the proprie-
tor hanged without mercy or remorse.-The evil became at
last so stagnant, that a jary and bailliff or sheriff was intro-
duced: but it did not cure the mischief; for this law-officer
was frequently gratified for the blood he spared; and, if a cul-
prit was poor, he was thought a very proper subject for the
gallows.-In short, this despotic system was not effectually re-
formed until the year 1748, when these abominable jurisdic-
tions were totally abolished.-The effect of this reformation
was astonishing.  No sooner were men emancipated from their


