
                              PENPONT.                         515

culiar circumstances of the case, perhaps no other heritor in Scot-
land would have acted with the like generosity. The glebe ex-
tends to 13 acres--and in improving it and making a new garden,
the minister has expended nearly L. 300. The heritors have
erected a garden wall at an expense of about L. 100. Perhaps
it may be added, that in a few years Penpont manse will be as de-
lightfully situated as any in Scotland.
	Education.--There are four schools in the parish, two of them
parochial and of course endowed; the third, private, as such
schools are termed, and unendowed; and the fourth exclusively ap-
propriated to females. They are all respectably taught. In one
of the parochial schools, Greek and French are superadded to the
ordinary branches. The salary of the one parochial schoolmaster
is L. 29, 6s. 6 3/4d., the other has L. 22. The one draws about
L. 16, the other about L. 9 in school fees. One of them has a
house and a small garden; the other has only a house, and that
of as comfortless a description as can well be imagined. The ex-
pense of education per month may be considered as ranging from
8d. to 10d. and 1s. It is not believed that there are any persons in
the parish between six and fifteen years of age who cannot read;
and if there be any, they are not more than one or two above fif-
teen years of age, in this unhappy predicament. One of the pa-
rochial schools is about five miles from the church, and on the whole
is judiciously set down, for the district. Of course, there may be
eight or ten farms with their cot-houses adjoining, that cannot be
said to have the benefit of parochial school economy. But the evil
is partly remedied, as in the Highlands, by itinerating teachers;
partly by intelligent parents themselves.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are 18 individuals, who
singly, or as representing others, receive parochial aid. The ex-
penditure for the year ending August 1835 was L. 59, 8s., so that
the average sum may be stated as 5s. 6d.; per month. This, how-
ever, is not an exact average, as the number of children, and other
modifying circumstances, cannot be minutely detailed. There are
two sums, the one of L. 200, the other of L. 150, mortified for
the benefit of the poor, the capital of which, it is understood, can-
not be encroached upon. The yearly collections average L. l6
per annum. The sums allowed to paupers here will seem large
in comparison with those in other parts of the country,--a circum-
stance which may be partially explained by the fact, that coal can-
not be procured for less than from 7d. to 8d. per cwt. The aver-


