
88                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

burgh. On this road two coaches travel; the one from Carlislie
to Glasgow daily, and the other from Dumfries to Edinburgh
thrice a-week. These and the district roads are well supplied
with bridges, and in excellent conditions. All the arable and pas-
ture lands in the parish are inclosed with dry-stone fences.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church is very conveniently situated
for the greater part of the population. It was built in 1741, and
is distant about three miles from the western, and eight from the
eastern, exremity of the parish. Having undergone lately a tho-
rough repair, it is one of the handsomest in this part of the coun-
try, and contains sittings for 650 people. Six of the seats are free,
and capable of accommodating 80 people. The free sittings are
uniformly the first occupied, and the most crowded. The manse
was built in 1760, and repaired in 1816, when a large addition
was made to it, which has rendered it both comfortable and com-
modious. The glebe is 10 acres in extent, and about L. 20 in
value. The stipend is 16 chalders of meal and barely, in equal
proportions, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   The Established church is the only place of worship in the parish.
The number of Presbyterian dissenters of all ages, including five
Catholics, is 137. The remainder of the population adhere to the
Establishment. When the weather is favourable, the church is
remarkably well attended, and by people from every quarter of the
parish. The average number of communicants is 500.
   Education.--There are five schools; but no legal salary is at-
tached to any of them. The principal one is a free school, which
was amply endowed in 1723 by John Wallace, a native of the pa-
rish, who had realized a considerable fortune in Glasgow by mer-
cantile pursuits. The sum he bequeathed for carrying his bene-
volent intentions into effect was L. 1600, the greater part of which,
in terms of the deed of endowment, was to be invested in land;
the remainder to be appropriated to the erection of a scholl and
dwelling-house for the rector, and the purchase of a contiguous
field of five acres. The management of the fund was committed
to the Presbytery of Penpont, who were authorized to watch over
the interest of the seminary, and to judge of the qualifica-
tions of the rector and the assistant teacher. In this seminary
the children of the parish, but not those who attend from other
parishes, are entitled to be taught English, writing, arith-
metic, book-keeping, Greek, and Latin, free of expense. Other
branches also are taught. Irregular attendance on the part of


