
128                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

   The figure of the parish is extremely irregular, and has been
compared to a spread eagle, with its head to the north, and its
wings shadowing eastward and westward.
   Topographical Appearances.-The parish may in general be
described as flat and low lying; at the same time, there is a con-
siderable unevenness or undulation of surface, which is occasioned
by the Tiviot intersecting it from southwest to north-east, and
the Tweed bounding it for several miles on the north. At the south-
west end of the parish, there are two eminences or hills, supposed
to be each about 500 feet above the level of the sea. The one is
called Dunse-law, or Doun-law, in this parish; and the other, im.-
mediately adjoining in Crailing, parish, called Penel-heugh. From
these eminences, two ridges gently slope to the eastward for seve-
ral miles, and thereby exhibit an appearance as if formed by a
current of water flowing parallel to the channel of the Tiviot.
There are three caves in the parish,-at Sunlaws. The time
when, and the purposes for which, these were excavated are not
ascertained; but, from their appearance, they indicate a date
not less than 1000 years ago, when incursions into this country
were conducted with much desolation, rapine, and barbarity.
   Meteorology,&c-The climate of this district is equal, if not su-
perior, to that of any inland part of Scotland. Its remarkable
excellence depends on the fact, that there is less moisture than
generally obtains in other districts. The cause of this appears to
be, that the clouds, driven by the west winds which prevail, besides
being exhausted in passing from the west to the east side of the
island, are attracted by two ranges of hills, the Cheviot and Lam-
mermoor, which, from a common point or centre, stretch to the
east and north, and leave the large vale of Merse and Tiviotdale
with comparatively little moisture. The heaviest rains are always
from the east. It is probable, from the particular dryness of the
atmosphere here, that it is warmer than in many other places of
the same elevation, especially in wet seasons.
   Hydrography.-There are many excellent springs in the pa-
rish, of which several have been found to be of a slightly petrify-
ing quality. The rivers Tweed and Tiviot flow through part of
it, and are its greatest ornaments. The quantity of water in the

<FOOTNOTE>founded on fact, is proved by the cess-book of the county,
which bears that the whole barony of Roxburgh belongs to the parish
of Roxburgh, and by the circumstance, that all the public burdens,
such as statute labour, poor rates, stipend, &c. ar


