
				STROMNESS.                           31

         bourers and country artisans.  Price of an iron plough, L.2, 2s.;
	of a small cart, L. 4, 4s.
	   Comparatively little attention has been paid to agricultural im-
	provement : the land is constantly cropped alternately with oats
	and bear, with only as much in potatoes as supplies the family.
	This must necessarily tend to impoverish the soil, and render it less
	productive.  The leases being, in many cases, only from year
	to year,--the smallness of the farms, the wretched steadings, and.
	the want of enclosures,-all combine to operate against the occu-
	pier as well as the proprietor.  Indeed, there are many farmers
	who do not entirely depend upon the produce of their crops for
	paying their rent; for they are often obliged to seek in the pro-
	lific sea, that subsistence which the earth would yield, were great-
	er care taken of it, and a better system of culture practised.
	   Quarries.-There is a slate quarry on the west side of the parish,
	from which, it is observed, in the former Account, that from 30,000
	to 40,000 slates were annually sold. " They are strong, thick, last
	long, and are the best in the county." Slates are still taken from
	this quarry ; but, though they are better adapted to the climate than
	Easdale slates, they are in general not so much used, forming
	rather a weighty roof.  There are no proper stone quarries. The
	stones which are used in the erection of houses are quarried from
	the shore,and conveyed to the town in large boats.  Some years ago,
	a Company commenced working a granite quarry near the town,
	with the intention of shipping for a proper market; but, though
	the granite was thought of a superior kind, the company, from want,
	of capital, did not proceed with the undertaking.
	   A lead mine was wrought, eighty years ago; but the ore was not
	in sufficient quantity to defray the expense, and remunerate the
	worker.
	   Fisheries.-During the three last years, a few enterprising indi-
	viduals have endeavoured to establish a berring-fishing station at
	Stromness; and, though they have not been so successful as could
	have been wished, they are still resolved to persevere.  Should
	they succeed, their undertaking will tend greatly to promote the
	prosperity of the town, and be of essential service to the fisher-
	men, as it will enable them to remain at home, instead of going
	to other stations in the islands,-which must be attended with
	considerable expeinse.  In the months of May and June 1837,
	there were about 2000 crans taken.
	   There are, also, some boats employed every season, in the


