
166                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

  There are, of female depositors in the savings' bank, 85 con-
sisting of servants, weavers, and tambourers; and a few who come
under no particular designation, &c. There are, of male deposi-
tors, 65, consisting of weavers, (about 30), servants, labourers,
masons, wrights, and other trade. The remainder is composed of
retired and professional men. There are 39 boys and girls.
  The number of sums below L.4 Sterling is, by the balance
sheet of August 1837, 55; above L.4 and below L.7, 37; and
from L.7 to L.10, 96. The stock at 31st January 1838, was
L.1621, 1ls. 3d. Sterling.
  Friendly Societies.--Friendly societies have long been known
here, and, with the exception of one or two failures from wrong
calculation, have done much good. The Benevolent Society was
instituted in 1796. The number of members has, for many years,
varied from 100 to 130. The highest rate of aliment is 5s. per
week; and L.3 is paid to the widow of a member deceased.
The annual contribution is 6s. The funds of the society amount
to above L.260. The average sum paid to members for the
last eight years, is about L.40 per annum. Upwards of L.600
have been expended in supporting the members, since its com-
mencement. The Benefit Union has been for nine years in a
prosperous state. It was instituted in the year 1828, and its laws
brought under the Acts of Parliament in 1834. The number of
its members is at present, 200. The funds, L.170. At the
age of twenty-one years, the payment of 5s. annually entities the
members to receive 5s. weekly, when coinfined to bed; and 3s.
weekly, when laid aside from work, but not bedfast. These are
valuable societies; and it must be confessed that our people seem
to be more fully alive to their utility than to that of the savings'
hank, which has not realized the amount of good anticipated.
There is one society among the miners in Banton, which has not
done so well, from the bad custom of the members meeting in a
public-house, and indulging in spirituous liquors. This practice,
however, has now been corrected.
  Libraries.--A reading Society has long been in existence.
The Sabbath School Society has a library adapted to the young.
In tbe two Baronies, two years ago, libraries were formed, the Irish
Cheap Library, commonly called the Kildare Library, of 79 vo-
lumes, forming the nucleus. They are supported by donations
and subscriptions of small sums and regular contributions of 3d. per
quarter. A considerable collection of excellent books has beenly
lately presented to the parish.


