
                            BANFF.                                 13

   tessa vulgaris,) here called plash fleuk.  Flounder (Platessa flesus,)
   here called grey fleuk.  Holibut (Hippoglossus vulgaris,) here cal-
   led turbot.  Common eel (Anguilla vulgaris.)  Common launce,
   (Ammodytes tobianus;) Sand-eel, or, as it is here termed, sannel.
   Blade-fish (Trichiurus lepturus.) In the autumn of 1829, a fish,
   supposed to be of the above species, was found among the rocks
   near this place, dead, but in a perfect state of preservation. It
   measured about 6 feet in length, and about 20 inches in breadth,
   where widest. The dorsal fin was of a brilliant red, and extend-
   ed the whole length of the back. The body was of a silvery
   bluish white appearance. The head was not unlike, in miniature,
   to that of a horse. The body was excessively compressed, being
   scarcely more than three or four inches thick. Sea perch (Ser-
   ranus Norvegicus,) not uncommon at particular seasons of the year.
   Wolf fish (Anarhichas lupus,) here called the sea cat. Angler
   (Lophius Piscatorius,) here called the sea devil, on account of its
   hideous appearance. Gray gurnard (Trigla gurnardus,) here
   called the croonach. Gray mullet (Mugil cephalus.) This fish
   is frequently taken here: it seems to delight in a rocky bottom.
   Mackerel (Scomber vulgaris,) found here during the herring fish-
   ery in great numbers. John Doree (Zeus faber.) Mr Robinson
   informs me, that about half a dozen of this rare fish were caught
   in his salmon bag-net, in the summer of 1834, and two others dur-
   ing last summer.  Stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus,) here cal-
   led banstickle.
      The bay here abounds with shrimps (Cancer crangon,) which
   have been occasionally fished for with success.
      The mussel (Mytilus edulis) is not a native of this coast. Im-
   mense numbers of them, however, are annually brought by the
   fishermen from the shores of the Cromarty Frith, and are deposited
   among the rocks here, for the purpose of being afterwards used for
   bait. The lobster (Cancer gammarus) is abundant, and also the crab
   (Cancer pagurus,) here called parten. The crab, however, obtain-
   ed here is not reckoned nearly so good as those brought to the
   Aberdeen market. A specimen of the cuttle-fish (Loligo offici-
   nalis,) is occasionally seen.
      Botany.-The parish has never been made the subject of an ex-
   act botanical survey; but, comprehending as it does, hill and dale,
   wood, water, and sea-coast, with no small variety of soil and expo-
   sure, it no doubt possesses an extensive and interesting Flora. The
   plants of the parish of Banff are, however, confined to the "woody


