
                         OLD CUMNOCK.                                 481

wards, that Mr Fulton introduced it into the rivers of America, nor
until the year 1812, that Mr Henry Bell brought it into use on
the Clyde.*/f
   As too often happens, in similar cases, the name of the original
inventor, has, in a great measure, been left in obscurity; while the
invention itself has benefited, in the highest possible degree, not
our country only, but the whole civilized world.
  It was thus, in a small obscure lake, in the south of Scotland, that
that giant power was first applied to navigation, by an individual,
now almost unknown,--which seems destined, at no distant period,
to constitute the grand moving power in the navigation of the globe.
Hugh Logan, Esq. of Logan, the famous Ayrshire wit, resided
during the greater part of his life, on his estate in this parish; and
there is a stone, near to the house of Logan, which goes by the
name of Logan's pillar, where, it is said, he was much in the habit
of sitting, and cracking, his jokes with those around him. His num-
berless witticisms and sarcasms, which were oftentimes pregnant,
not only with the most genuine humour, but likewise marked by
an eagle-eyed discrimination, as well as an unsparing dissection
of character, and conduct, are generally current among the people
of this district, and form an unfailing source of amusement at their
jovial meetings. But, from the frequent mixture of coarseness
and profanity that interlard them, they have by no means contribut-
ed to promote the interests, either of religion or morality, in the
neighbourbood.
   The dust of the celebrated Alexander Peden slumbers within
the precincts of Cumnock church-yard, and sheds a solemn sacred-
ness around that abode of death, which enshrines it in the hallow-
ed recollections of every Scottish Christian. For many have come
far and near, to see the place where Peden lies, to read the time-
worn inscription on his tombstone, and to view the two thorns which
mark his last resting-place. Mr Peden was a native of the neigh-
bouring parish of Sorn. A little before the Restoration, he was
settled minister at New Luce in Galloway, where he continued
about three years, and was then ejected by the violent tyranny of
these times, because of his faithful and unbending allegiance to
Christ's crown and covenant. He was first buried in the Laird of
Auchinleck's aisle; but after he had been forty days in the grave,
at troop of dragoons came an disinterred his body. They brought
it in its decaying putrid state to Cumnock, intending to have it

<FOOTNOTE> Any who wish to be fully satisfled of the truth of the above statements, may con-
sult a narrative drawn up by Mr Robert Chambers of Edinburgh, published 1834.
    AYR.                         H h


