
                         PAISLEY.                               203

annually by the feuars.  A Justice of Peace Court is held in the
Assembly Rooms on the first Friday of every month.  In Johnston
there are a due proportion of highly respectable writers and me-
dical practitioners,-a lodge of free masons,-various booksellers
and printers,-fire and life assurance companies, and a branch of the
Paisley Union Bank,-carriers to Paisley, Glasgow, Port-Glasgow,
and Greenock.  The market-place is very spacious, and affords
accommodation rarely to be met with.  The Glasgow, Paisley
and Ardrossan Canal terminates in a basin at the east end of John-
ston, to the advantage of which it greatly contributes.  Adjoin-
ing to the coal quay in this place, the tacksman of the Nitshill
stone quarry has a yard for landing his building materials, for the
better accommodation of those who prefer using the excellent
stones of that quarry, in the construction of their factories and
houses.
   From an eminence on the Paisley road distant about a quarter
of a mile from Johnston, that village has a picturesque appearance.
The light and elegant spire which adorns its octagonal church is
an object of general admiration.  It was built in 1823, and is an
imitation in miniature of the famous spire at Lincoln, built by Sir
Christopher Wren.  Since the erection of this spire, not less than
five different bells have been its inmates, all of which, although of
good materials, as well as excellent tone, have been rendered un-
fit for duty by fracture, occasioned, it has been said, by the con-
fined space in which they were hung.  A sixth bell is now order-
ed, but it is proposed to erect it in a lower part of the spire than
that occupied by its predecessors, in the hope, that, in a more
roomy space, it will be less liable to the ace4dent which befell the
others.

                         III.-ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY.
   Monastery.-At one periodi Renfrewshire was all comprehended
in the deanery of Rutherglen, being one of the then deaneries of the
Episcopal see of Glasgow.  The only monastic establishment
in the county was that of Paisley, founded by Walter, son of Alan,
the first of the Stewarts.  This monastery appears to have been
founded in theyear 1163, * for a Prior, and thirteen Cluniac Monks, +
whom its founder brought from Wenlock in Shropshire, his native

<FOOTNOTE>Chart. Pais. pref. p. 3.
          "The order deried its name from the Abbey of Cluni in Burgundy, the first
and always the chief house of what termed the reformed Benedictines.-Pref. to
Chart. p. 3.


