
               DUNOON AND KILMUN.                           583

Drollis (Orchis mascula) ; marsh. orchis (O. latifolia) ; and spotted
orchis (O. maculata) ; and butterfly babenaria.(Habenaria bifolia),
with its deliciously scented flowers, which, with many other cream-
coloured, or pale greenish-wbite blossoms, become much more
fragrant on the approach of evening; and lastly, as pre-eminently
indicating a moist and boggy soil, ma' be mentioned the sweet
gale or Dutch myrtle (Myrica,Gale), the badge of the clan Camp-
bell, a shrub remarkable for the aromatic fragrance of its foliage,
which, together with the elasticity of its young twigs, recommend-
ed it for, beds among the population of the Highlands
     Gale from the bog sb`ll waft Arabian balm."
Fresh water pools and minor lakes in the parish yield the marsh
andwaterspeedwells(Veronicascutellataandana.gallis). There,too,
          The water-lily to the light,
          Her chalice rears of silver bright
and nowhere, perhaps, in greater profusion and loveliness than in
the loch of Dunloskin, on the Hafton estate, near Dunoon. Its
roots are used in different parts of Scotland, for producing a black
or deep purple dye : the bladderwott (Utricularta vulgaris), its
leaves furnished with little vesicles or bladders. These, by a beau-
tiful provision of nature, are filled with. air during the summer
season, when the plant rises to the surface of the water, and ex-
pands its flowers in the free atmosphere. Afterwards.tbe air es-
capes from these vesicles, and the plant, by its own specific gra-
vity, then sinks to the bottom of the water, there to ripen its seeds.
This interesting and beautiful production is found in pools near
the Bull-wood, westward of the village of Dunoon. The water
lobelia (Lobelia Dortmanna) abounds in Loch Eck. Its leaves are
constantly submerged. If these leaves are cut through transverse-
ly, they will be seen to be each of them composed of two parallel
tubes, like a double-barrelled gUD,-a structure not known to exist in
any other plant. In the same lake, and always near the shore, may
be seen in proftsion the plantain sliore-weed (Litorella lacustris),
matting the edge of the water with its velvety green tufts.
   Dry and open banks and fields are adorned with the poor man's
weather-glass (,4nagailis arvensis) ; the common centaury (Ery-
throa Ceritaurium) , and field gentian (Gentiana campestris), both
which are remarkable for their powerfully bitter principle, and may
be safely used as stomachics; the bistort or snake-weed (Polygo-
num bistorta), and viviparous alpine bistort (P. viviparum), in
more mountainous situations; the awl-shaped spurrey (Spergula


