
				KILMADOCK.			1225

	tains one considerable hill, the Uamvar of the " Lady of the
        Lake." * The view from this hill is splendid and extensive.
	   That " magnificent mountain," as Sir W. Scott calls it, Ben-
	ledi, which signifies the mountain of God, appears to great advan-
	tage from
			" the mountain's southern brow,
	     Where broad extended far beneath,
		    The varied realms Of fair Menteith."

	   Climate, &c.-" This parish is an extremely healthful situ-
	ation.   While the Grampian Mountains protect it from the
	nipping frosts of the north, it is finely exposed to the Atlan-
	tic breeze and beat of the sun.  The rapidity of the river Teith
	and the smaller rivers have likewise a strong tendency to sweep
	away those noxious vapours that haunt the low countries.  Be-
        ing situated in the centre of the kingdom, the climate is mild
	and free of those rains that drench the western coast, and the
	piercing winds that blow incessantly on the inhabitants of the
	eastern borders.   Hence in this parish there are very few disease.
	The inhabitants enjoy a clear healthful atmosphere, and live to a
	good old age."
	   "This parish abounds with fine water springs, from its pecu-
	liar situation on the side of the Grampian mountains.  From the
	sides of Uaigh-mor a great number,of springs issue, and at one
	place, near the burn of Garwall, there is a verv large spring rush-
	ing out of the solid rock in the form of a spout the water of which
	is (said to be) mineral.  The town of Doune is plentifully sup-
	plied with springs of soft water that never drv in the warmest
	summer, and the banks of Teith abound with  similar natural
	springs."-(Old Account.)
	   Lakes  or Lochs.--There are two lakes or lochs in the parish;

<FOOTNOTE>The word Uamvar (Uaigh-mor)  signifies the great cave.  The hill is  remarkable
	for a cavern in the south or the Kilmadock side, as it is for a chasm on the north.
	"Ua-var,"says Sir W. Scoot, (appendix to Lady of the Lake, note A), " as the names is
	pronounced, or more properly, Uaigh-mor, is a mountains to the north-east of the village
	of Callender in Menteith, deriving its name, which signifies the great den or cavern
	from a sort of retreat among the rocks on the south side, said hy tradition to have
	been the abode of a giant. In latter times it was the refuge of robbers and banditti,
	who have been only extirpated within these forty or fifty years." The last Account,
	written in 1794, says, " they were only extirpated about forty or fity years ago." Its
	one part of the south brow, large towering rocks are piled suhlinnely together. At
	form of a parallellogram, connected with which are two small caves, oneof them ferm-
	ing a very commodious place of shelter or consealment, and the other producing very
	fine echoes when stones are pitched into it.   Such are the "heights and" wild breaths
	of Uamvar,"

				With " the cavern where 'tis told.
				A giant made his den of old."


