
     Statistical Account

bad habits; and many of them never can make a piece of
good cloth.
   This manufacture began in this parish between 1710 and
1720, and increased slowly till 1775, when it did not exceed,
in value, 8500 l. annually.  About that time, 2 or 3 of the
established manufacturers got into the English trade, and mak-
ing goods suitable to that trade, increased their demand be-
yond what their capitals are equal to, or, though they had
had funds beyond what they could find hands to execute.
They of course gave their orders for coarse goods to manu-
facturers in the neighbourhood, who employed from 2 to 8
looms.  These, by economy and industry, saved money from
the orders they got; and soon increased the number of their
looms.  But the value of the goods made, has increased much
more rapidly than the capital of the manufacturers, owing
chiefly to the many branches of the banks, by which credit
is got too easily.  On this foundation, about a third of the
goods is at present made, and of an inferior quality to what
is made by those of character and capital.  Those who began
this manufacture here, had to work with the sweat of their
brow for 8 or 10 years, ere they gained the first 100 L. of
their capital:  now, a weaver* without 10 L. capital, will get
credit for 200 L. or 300 L. value of yarn, or cash for a bill,
with 2 or 3 names upon it, to the same amount.  To retire
there bills, the goods must be expeditiously manufactured.
To effect this, they seduce by drink, and offers of extrava-
gant wages, the workmen of established manufacturers:  the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since the above account of the cloth manufacture was sent me, a stagna-
tion has taken place; and scarcely any money can be procured at the banks.
As yet, this parish has been less affected by it than many other places.  But
few hands have been dismissed:  the wages have been lowered, but are still
good.  But unless there come a favourable turn soon, manufacturers cannot af-
ford to make goods, when the sales are so low.


