
1042                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

the west, from Elgin by Keith and Fochabers, twenty-seven miles;
and from Inverness by the same road, seventy-two miles. To the
south again, there is agood turnpike-road in the direction of Rhynie,
Alford, &c.; to the north, another road leads to Portsoy, distant
seventeen miles; and north-east, there is another public road to
Banff, which is twenty-one miles from Huntly.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is very conveniently
situated in the middle of the town. It was built in 1805, and is a very
plain structure, immensely too large, being seated to accommodate
1800 persons. The manse,which is on tbe south road,about a quar-
ter of a mile from the town, was built about the same time, and is
in a very good state of repair. The glebe contains 12 acres, and
is worth about L.25 per annum, and the annual average amount of
the stipend is L.185.
	The new church of Huntly was built in the end of the year
1840. The immediate occasion of its erection arose from the sus-
pension, and ultimately, the deposition, by the General Assem-
bly, of Mr Walker, the parish minister: but it had long been felt
that there was need of an ecclesiastical division of this populous,
and, in the country, very scattered parish. The new church
is served by a probationer, who is stationed there by the General
Assembly's Committee as missionary; but eventually it is proposed
to erect it into a distinct quoad sacra church and parish. The
missionary's salary of L.100 per annum is paid from a fund rais-
ed expressly for these church purposes. There are also other four
chapels in the town belonging to the Independents, Seceders,
Episcopalians, and Roman Catholics respectively. The stipend
of the Independent minister is L.100;* and of the Secession minis-
ter, it is understood to be about L.60; both being raised by seat-
rents and contributions among the people. The present Episco-
pal minister is also chaplain to her Grice the Duchess of Gor-

<FOOTNOTE>It may not be out of place to mention here the eminently godly Mr George
Cowie, the first minister of the Independent Church in Huntly. He was at first an
Antiburgher, but was cut off from that communion in consequence of what
they deemed irregularities in his proceedings in admitting to his pulpit deputations
from the London Missionary Society, and encouraging meetings for the revival of religion,
and promoting establishment of Sabbath schools. He died in 1806, after a most
laborious and successful ministry of thirty-five years not only Huntly, but in many
of the surrounding parishes. He was a man of vigorous mind and most fervent piety.
His labours were blessed to very many souls, and he was the instrument of an ex-
tensive awakening. To this day, his aphoristic sayings are often quoted, and his me-
mory is affectionately cherished by many of the old people in the parish. After his
death, his congregation, who almost to a man had clung to him, and had retained
the Presbyterian modes of worship, became divided, and eventually the majority join-
the Congregationalists, while a smaller section returned to the communion of the
Secession Church.


