
     of Inveresk.

trained to it in their early days, being enticed by the beauty
of the links, (which lie on each side of the river, between

of the Canongate, whose former residence in Holland has enabled him to
give a very satisfactory description of that game. 

   The Dutch game called Kolf, from which the word Golf is derived,
as both are probably from the Greek word, zoxopos, is played in an inclosed 
rectangular area of about 60 feet by 25.  The floor, which is a composi-
tion of land, clay, and pitch, is made as level as a billiard table, and the 
inclosing walls are for two feet above the floor, faced either with polished 
stone, or sheet lead, that they may cause ball rebound with accuracy.
At about 8 or 10 feet from each end wall, a circular post of about 5 
inches diameter is placed precisely in the middle of the area with regard 
to breath, consequently opposite the one to the other, and at the distance 
of 40 feet or thereby The balls used in the game are about the size of 
cricket balls, made perfectly round and elastic, covered with soft leather, 
and fewed with fine wire.  The clubs are from three to four feet long,
with stiff shafts.  The heads are of brafs, and the face, with which the ball
is struck, is perfectly smooth, having no inclination, such as might 
have a tendency to raise the ball from the ground.  The angle, which the
head makes with the shaft, is nearly the same with that of the putting 
clubs used at golf.  The game may be played by any number, either in
parties against each other, or each person for himself: and the contest is,
who shall hit the two post in the fewest strokes, and make his ball re-
treat from the last one with such an accurate lenght, as that it shall
lie nearest to the opposite end wall of the are.  The first stroke is made
from within a few inches of what is called the beginning post, and the 
player directs his ball as precisely as he can on the opposite one, that he 
may hit it if possible, computing at the same time the force of his stroke,
so that, should he miss it, (which from the distance may be supposed to be 
most frequently the cafe), his hall may rebound from the end wall, and lie 
within a moderate distance of the post, and before it, i. e. between the two
posts, rather than between the post and the end wall.  The reason of pre-
ferring this situation of the ball, will appear by reflecting how much easier 
it is in that cafe to fend the ball, after striking the post, back again towards 
the other one.  The skill of the game confists in striking the post in such
a way, whether full or otherwise, as may send the ball towards the place 
where you with it to rest.  It combines the address required both in golf
and in billiards.  Five points make the game; and such is the difference
between a capital and an ordinary player, that the former will give four 
 

