

                            ABERDALGIE AND DUPPLIN.           879

    adopted, which, from its instant effects in drying wet and tilly
    lands and cold subsoils, speedily repays the tenant for his labour
    and expense.  The introduction of turnip husbandry has likewise
    proved very beneficial both to the tenantry and to the lands, and
    has been the means of introducing not a little sheep-husbandry,
    especially during the winter season.  Potatoes, which have become
    of late years a valuable article of export from Stratbearn, have
    been much grown in this district, and have much improved the
    lands, owing to the facilities thereby given to the obtaining of fo-
    reign manure, great quantities of which are driven to this parish
    from Perth.
      Wheat is much cultivated in the south part of the parish,
    where the land is of a rich loam and clay, and where it is well
    exposed to the genial influence of the sun ; but in the northern
    district, which is much exposed to the north winds, and a cold
    tilly soil, oats, barley, pease, and beans form the only corn crops
      The valued rent of the parish of Aberdaigie and Dupplin is
    about L.3000 Scots.  The average rental of the last seven years,
    L.3200 Sterling.
      The parish consists of six large farms, containing from 156 to
    280 Scots arable acres, exclusive of pasture, and three smaller
    ones varying in extent.
      The number of arable acres may amount to 2500, and there
    are about 50 acres incapable of cultivation, and lying waste,
    The total number of Scots acres in the parish is about 2900.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Means of Communication.-The road from Perth to Stirling
    passes through the parish for nearly three miles.  Lord Kinnoull
    advanced L.3000 for the commencement of this road.  It was
    finished in the year 1811, and has proved an unspeakable benefit
    both to the commercial and agricultural interests of this part of
    the country.   Many excellent farm-houses have been built along
    its line, and the facilities afforded for the conveyance of lime and
    other Manures, as well as for the export of the produce, have
    greatly increased the productiveness and value of farms which
    formerly boasted but of little arable land. The old road passes
    likewise through the parish upon its northern declivity; but a far
    better line has been adopted for the new one in the plain below.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The present church of Aberdalgie was
    built in the year 1773, and a vault was constructed beneath the
    church for the burying-place of the noble family of Kinnoull.


