
     of Kinneff.

The rent of land in the parish is from 20 s. to 30 s. the Scotch
acre for the best, and from 10 s. to 15 s. for inferior grounds.
The extent of the farms is from 30 to 300 acres*.

<FOOTNOTE>

dicious systematic improver of land in the north of Scotland.  The thinking part
of the farmers have attended to Mr Barclay's operations for 20 years, and are now
convinced of the propriety and advantage of his mode of improvement; and
they do not want skill and inclination so much as they want stock to enable
them to profit by his example and instructions.  This want, he with his u-
sual good sense and discernment, has, to his own tenants in a great measure
supplied.  For to them he has let his unimproved lands at a moderate rent;
he has laid down a plan for the improvement and after management of their
farms, which they are bound to abide by; and to such of them as need it, he
has advanced the means of improvement for two or three years, interest free.
By that time the produce of the dressed fields, upon which the money has
been laid out, enables the possessor to repay the proprietor his advance.  Mr
Barclay has also built comfortable dwelling houses and convenient offices upon
all his farms.  Thus are all his tenants enabled to carry on their improvements
much faster than if they had not these advantages.  They live comfortably while
they are doing so: when the greatest part of their ground is improved they begin
to save money; and, by the time their present leases expire, they themselves
will offer (if not double rent) a very great advance for the farms they occupy.
   Were the landholders, especially in the north of Scotland, to follow the a-
bove or a similar plan, their tenants would be enabled sooner to improve their
grounds, to live better than they do at present, and the proprietors in the
end must be very considerable gainers by the bargain.
   Best men-servants who live in the family, receive 6 guineas a year; se-
cond sort, 5; and, to those who are capable of overseeing and directing the o-
perations of a farm, as well as working themselves, the farmers give L 10 a
year.  The women-servants get from 50 s. to 60 s. a year.  The wheel plough,
the chain, the Lothian, and double moulded ploughs are used.  A labouring
servant, when married, commonly gets from his master a house and a small
piece of garden ground: he also gets his fuel brought to his house; six pounds
or 6 guineas per annum, of wages; and a stone of oat-meal per week for his
maintenance.  If his master keep a cow for him he pays him 40 s. a year for
doing so.-The wages of men-labourers are 6 d. sterling per day and victuals,
from Candlemas to Michaelmas; from that time until Candlemas again, 4 d.


