
224                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

1732, Dec. 10, The minister reported "that qun the fore wall of
the church was taken down, yr was a little cut stone above the
big, door, containing an account qun and by qum yr church was
built, with ye ministers' names and entry there in office: and yt
ye cutting of the sd stone was very bad, and so defaced yt it was
scarce legible, and yrefore be had caused buy, cut, colour, and
set up another stone, containing what was written on the former."
This stone is built into the present church-yard wall, and con-
tains what follows; "This house was built for the worship of
God by the parish of Lonmay, 1607-Mr Thomas Rires being
minister then, and three years before at the old church.  After
him, Messrs William Rires, James Irvine, and John Houston
were ministers successively-next, Mr Thomas Gordon was or-
dained minister of the Gospel by the Presbytery of Deer, with
consent of all concerned in the parish, September 24, 1709," &c.
   The last mentioned minister died in 1743.  His successor, Mr
Sim, died in 1752; and Mr Lundie, the third Presbyterian mi-
nister from the Revolution, died in 1807, May, after being five
years pastor of the parish.  Mr Shearer, the fourth in order, died in
1810, February, and the present minister was settled in May
1810.
   Antiquities.-There are no antiquities in the parish, unless we
mention a Druidical circle, which is very entire at Newark, in Cri-
monmogate.  The centre stone is of great size, and (as well as se-
veral others composing the circle) must have been brought from
a great distance.  We may also mention the site of an old castle,
called the Castle of Lonmay, in the Links thereof, near the sea,
from which all the stones have been carried off, and employed in
building farmhouses, &c.; but, except the name, all tradition re-
specting this building is lost.
   Modern Buildings.-Of modern buildings, the principal one is
the House of Cairness, founded some years ago by the father of
the present proprietor: the plan by Mr James Playfair, Ar-
chitect, Edinburgh.  It was finished in the year 1799, at an ex-
pense of about L.25,000.  The porch, which is a very chaste
construction after the Grecian model, having four Ionic pillars,
is of granite, as also the carved cornices.  The granite was brought
from the neighbouring parish of Longside.  The body of the house
is built of greenstone, or what the masons call heathen, quarried
on the estate.  It is truly a fine house, both in design and execu-
tion.  Another elegant building has been erected a few years ago


