
     of Leuchars.

tend their net, and drag it gently to the shore: In this ways
they ate sometimes more, sometimes less successful in taking
sea trout, flounders, and other kinds of fish.  They use the
same mode of fishing also, in all the convenient pools in the
river Eden, when it is low water.  This they only do for
amusement, or when they long for fish.  Is it not supposeable,
that if there fishings were properly attended to, they might
supply all the district with this wholesome and agreeable ar-
ticle of food?  There were two no way inconsiderable salmon
fishings in the river, one immediately below the Guard-bridge,
the other opposite to the Coble-house; so called, from a small
boat being kept there, by which travellers from the south to
the north, and from the north to the south, shortened their
way by 2 miles, in place of going round by the Guard-bridge.
But since the distillery was erected upon the south side of the
river at Kincaple, upon a bank slopping towards the Eden,
both these fishings have been much injured by noxious water
flowing from the distillery which runs into the river.  The
one at the Coble-house is entirely given up, and the other
greatly decreased.  When these were fished, salmon was
bought here at 1 d 1/4 and a 1 d 1/2 per pound Dutch.  No salmon
can be purchased now below 4 d, or frequently 8 d per pound.
The Tents-moors, and many other farms in the parish,
abound with grey rabbits.  It is allowed on all hands, that
the sale of these animals with their furrs, yields more than
L. 200 per annum.  This part of the parish is now almost
the only one where sheep are reared.  It has been thought
that the true breed of Scots sheep are to be found here: ori-
ginally it might have been so; but they have passed through so
many cross breeds, that they are greatly degenerated; yet there
remain some very fine-wooled sheep, which, if properly attend-
ed to, might again rival their neighbours for the fineness of their
fleeces.  There has been a flock of 180 sheep lately added to


