
386                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the King to death?" He answered, "Because he was a tyrant
and deserved death." "Why did you dissolve the Parliament?"
"Because they were greater tyrants than the King, and it required
dissolution?" In 1745, the forces of the unfortunate Prince
Charles Edward were encamped for more than a month to the
east of the village of Webster Duddingston, on the level plain, by
the burnside which now forms part of the present enclosures of the
pleasure grounds of Duddingston House, both before and after he
defeated General Cope at Preston. The house in the village, be-
longing, at that time, to a Mr Horn, a farmer, is still standing
and inhabited, where the Prince slept the night previous to the
battle.
  On the 13th September 1744, a waterspout broke upon the
top of Arthur's Seat, and dividing its force, one part was discharg-
ed upon the western side, and tore up a channel visible to this day,
as a lasting monument of its violence; the other took its direction
towards the village of Duddingston, carried away a gable of a cot-
tage to the west, and flooded the lock to a great degree.
  Eminent Men. -About the middle of the seventeenth century
this parish had for its clergyman, a person of the name of Monteith,
a man of more than ordinary attainments. Forgetful, however, of
his character and the sacredness of his profession, he engaged in an
illicit amour with a lady of quality in the neighbourhood, and found
himself under the necessity "to fly". From the scene of his disgrace
and degradation. He repaired to France, and immediately waited
upon the celebrated Ricbelieu, and applied to him for employment.
He told Richelieu, that he was of the Monteith family in Scotland.
The Cardinal remarked that he was well acquainted with the
Monteiths, and desired to know to what branch of the family he
"pertained." The parson, whose father bad been a plain fisher-
man in the salmon trade of the Forth, somewhere above Alloa,
readily answered, that he was of the Monteiths of Salmonet.
Richelieu acknowledged that he had never heard of that branch, but
admitted, with becoming candour, notwithstanding his ignorance,
that it might be a very illustrious family. He took Monteith under
his patronage and soon after advanced him to be his, secretary, in
which situation he wrote and published some essays, which were ad-
mired in that age, as specimens of the remarkable purity of style
had facility of diction, which a foreigner could attain in the French
language. His chief work was "La Histoire des Troubles de la


