
110                      SHETLAND.

by 10 feet wide, standing east and west, with the door towards
the north; and at a distance of 42 feet to the southward of this
last-mentioned house, is the first of six houses more, which six
houses stand parallel to each other, and in the direction of east
and west, with their doors towards the north.  All the houses are
separated from each other; but the intermediate space between
them appears to have been no more than sufficient to have admitted
one person. The doors have been 3 feet wide.
  As there are no springs of water in the holm, a tank or reservoir
appears to have been formed for the reception of rain-
water, or of water brought from the adjoining ness.*
  There are five burying-places in the parish, viz. at Sand, West
Skeld and Gruting in Sandsting, and at Twatt and Aith in Aithsting.
  Though at two of them only, viz.  Sand and Twatt, is
it certain that churches have been built, yet it is more than probable
that, while the Roman Catholic religion flourished in the
islands, there have been churches or chapels in the, immediate
neigbbourbood of them all. In addition to the church or chapel
and burying-ground at West Skeld, there are the ruins of a burgh
or fort. - From the ruins which still appear, we are warranted to
infer, that it was a place of very considerable dimensions; but what
these were, or in what form the burgh itself was constructed, cannot
now be ascertained. It was built of blocks of red granite,
without cement. In the eighth century, and while defended by a
band of brave and trusty warriors, we may suppose it affording
protection to the lives, and the goods and gear of the udalmen
around; but in the nineteenth century, its venerable ruins may be

<FOOTNOTE>Tradition says, that in 1588, one of the Spanish Armada was lost in what is
called the deeps or haddock-sand, a few miles to the southward, that the crew took
shelter in the holm, and that thv fortified themselves in it. till they should know the
reception they were likely to recieive from the natives. This tradition is support-
ed by the fact, that a particular spot where the fishermen set their lines, and where
the ship is said to have foundered, is known to the present time by the name of the
ship. Tradition farther says that, in gratitude for their preservation, and the friend-
ly reception they met with, the crew built a church at Sand. about a mile and a half
from the hohm, and dedicated it to the Blessed Virgin. It appears to have been a
very neat and substantial building, with a chancel or choir on the east end, separated
from the body of the church by an arch extending from one side to the other. There
does not appear to have been any hewn stones made use of in the building; but such
stones as had the plainest and smoothest surface were placed on the outer and inner
sides of the walls,-the heart of the wall filled with boulder or round stones, and ce-
ment, apparently of burnt shells and of thin consistence, and all the empty spaces
completely filled up. The roof was thatched.  After the Reformation extend-
ed itself to Sandsting about 1600, the kirk at Sand was converted into a Protest-
ant church, Between 1760 and 1770, this church was allowed to fall into a state
of great disrepair.  What the lairds, or the people, or both, in the first instance pre-
served, the fury of the ocean has been fast destroying. The chancel or choir is near-
ly washed away.


