
               34                          ELGINSHIRE.

               ral of excellent quality and great productiveness.  The eastward dis-
               trict is a deep rich clay, resembling that of the Carse of Gowrie, to
               which noble tract of country the plain of Duffus bears also externally
               a degree of similarity, wanting, however, its princely river and wide
               spreading groves,-grievous wants to be sure, yet not altogether ir-
               remediable, since the latter defect has been so far amended by one
               of the smaller proprietors on his ground, and promises to be still
               farther rectified by judicious improvements now in progress upon
               the estate of the principal heritor.  The ground is in fact gene-
               rally too valuable to be devoted to extensive plantations; but
               the plan of hedging and hedge-growing, which imparts such rich-
               ness to many districts of England equally flat with this, would, it
               is thought, afford much protection to the cattle and the crops, as
               well as greatly embellish the district.  This seems, indeed, the only
               improvement which it requires, and as peculiarly suited to it, it is
               to be hoped, that the system so tastefully and efficiently begun will
               be gradually and successfully extended.
                 The sea coast at the east end of this parish is rocky, and very
               bold, (although a mile or two west, it subsides into a level sandy
               beach,) and contains some large and remarkable caverns, accessible
               on foot at low water, and which, it is probable, formed in earlier
               times a secure and favourite resort of those engaged in contraband
               traffick.  Towards the west extremity of the parish, a small rock
               or promontory of land runs boldly into the sea, forming a conspi-
               cuous object in the navigathon of the frith.  It was formerly the
               site of a Roman fortification, and is now that of a populous and
               thriving village.
                 Climate.- The temperature of this parish, in common with that
               of the county, is remarkably mild for its latitude.  The superior
               earliness and warmth of the plains of Morayshire are such, that
               harvest often commences here simultaneously with that in the Lo-
               thians, and many parts of England.  The climate of this district,
               compared with that of the neighbouring counties, and of Britain
               generally, is so genial, that physicians of eminence acquainted with
               it have declared that they would prefer it to Devonshire for the
               winter.  In the season  1829-30, the winter was greatly milder
               here than at London or Paris, or even (during its brief rigor) at
               Rome.  More is suffered from cold in spring, particularly during
               the first ten days of May, than during the depth of what are cal-
               led thd winter months.  Comparatively little rain falls in this quar-
               ter though, from the native of the soil, it occasionally lies long.
					      3


