
                         TOROSAY.                            287

cesses, forming acute angles towards the entrance of the light, and
on either side of each window is a long flat, stone or flag, raised by
rubble work to the height of a chair or sofa, the purposes of which,
it is probable, it was intended to serve.  The interior of the tower
is 44 by 22 feet.  The rest of the building is comparatively of a
modern date.  On the lintel of one of the doors is engraved the
crest of the Macleans, and the year 1663.  The whole building
on the exterior measures 75 by 72 feet.  This castle was the
residence of the heroine in Miss Baillie's drama of the Family
Legend.
   As mentioned in a preceding part of this Account, there is a
tower or keep at the head of Lochbuy.  Though bearing marks,
in the lower part of the building, of nearly as high antiquity as
the tower at Duart, it is in a more perfect state of preservation,
owing to the attention that had been bestowed in keeping the
roof always entire.  It is a square tower built upon a low rock
near the sea.  This circumstance deprives it of much of the pro-
minency and bold aspect of Duart Castle, though, estimating from
the foundation of each, it is much higher.  It has three tiers of
apartments, of which the two lower ones are arched.  On the east
or land side is the gateway, near which a fosse, drawn in the form
of the segment of a circle, having its centre in the tower, can still
be traced.  In the middle of the ground flat, a spring of excellent
water issues from the solid rock.  A bason four feet deep was ex-
cavated for it, which it never overflows, but which it takes no time
after being emptied, to replenishes.  About a century ago, the keep
was discontinued as the family residence.
   At Killean and at Laggan, there are ruins of two small chapels
built before the Reformation.  In the burying-grounds adjacent
to them, are a few richly-carved tombstone, taken, it is supposed,
from Iona.
   Near the small village of Salen are the ruins of a cell which
belonged to the monastery of Iona.  A rivulet which runs past
it, is called the Preacher's Burn, Aid-an-tsearmaniche; and tradi-
tion affirms, that it got this name from the circumstance of St Co-
lumba's coming there occasionally to preach.  It is said that the
want of good water alone prevented his settling there.  The vil-
lage is called Salen-dubh-Challum chille, i.e. Malcolm of the colt's
black bay.
   There have been, within the last ten years, stone coffins found
in different parts of the parish, where excavations have been made


