
344                     RFNFREWSHIRE.

ternoon to the 'operatives', and all others who we're -interdicted, and,
would not pay rent.
In the Court of Session, the people's claim for an ample and ex-
tended enlargementof the church, sufficient for two-thirdsof the pa-
rishioners, was refused, and the minister cast, with costs. Avail-
ing bimself.of the support of the General Assembly, and recom-
riendation, in 1831, by their Procurator, to try the care in the
House cvf Lords, the question was carried tbitlier, and lost as
to the enlargement of the church. But, in affirming the jtidg-
ment of the Court of Session, the Chancellor threw out, incideri-
tally, some strong condemnatory expressions about letting seats
in landward p`rishes for rent, and especially the indecency and il-
legality of having the auction in the church. On tl)is, and on
the deliverance of the (-'xeneral Assembly, the minister and his in-
terdicted flock returned to the church,-took quiet possession of
its seats in the afternoon, and have continued ever since to do so,
without paying, or being called upon to pay, a penny of rent.
-Such are the steps, the minister and parishioners of Neilston
took to et quit of such an enormous ous, and illegal
     9                             , griev                1113post:
and every landward parish should imitate their example.
From 1826 to April 1833, they were in the civil courts at im-
mense expense. , The church and the n`tion were alive to their
plea. Multitudes of parishes were in, the same state of destitution
as to accommodation with that of Neilston. Had we succeeded,
they were all ready to claim additions. At losing our cause, not
merely disappointment, but despondency,. was felt and expressed.
The General Assembly, at its first meeting, took up the cause.
The ministqr received the thanks of the Assembly for his zeal,
and labours, and great exertions in the cause. The Assembly
ordered all his expenses in carrying on the suit before the Lord
Chancellor, to be paid; and Dr Chalmers, fired with a iioble
patriotism and Christian zeal, took up, and is now carrying on
66 church extension" with a spirit and, success worthy of him,
and of the people of Scotland, who have answered his call, and
are generously contributing for the erection of new churches.
The only difference betwixt Dr Chalmers' plan and Dr Flem-
ing's lies in this. As to church accommodation, or church exten-
sion, their, vie'ws are nearly the same. But not so, in the other
parts. Dr Fleming's plan included and would have secured en-
dowments, and parochial seb ol's for the new parishes. In this,
his object was not to call upon any one to put his. hand in his


