                       KINELLAR.                            117

   Farm-houses and steadings have been of late very much improved,
and, in general, are comfortable and commodious.  Most leases
extend to nineteen years, which is in the tenants' favour; one or
two are of long duration, and except in these, all the rents are
by far too high.  Some very good land lets at L.3 per acre, and
the average rent is L.2.
   Wages.-Good ploughmen get from L.5 to L.7 half yearly;
next class from L.4, 10s. to L.5, 10s.; boys from L.2 to L.3;
females from L.1, 10s. to L.2 in winter, and L.2, 10s. to L.3
in summer,-all with victuals.  The connection between farmers
and their servants is now very different from what it was forty or
fifty years ago.  Most servants then remained with the same mas-
ter till they married and got possessions; they thus became attach-
ed to the master and the farm, and felt an interest in every thing
about the town.  Now, they rarely engage but for a half year, and,
delighting to move from place to place, they contract little attach-
ment either to persons or places.  This roving disposition is much
fostered by the great number of feeing-markets, which promote
idleness and dissipation.
   Rent, &c.-It is scarcely practicable to state with accuracy the
real rent of the parish.  It may bd about L.3000.  Its valued rent
is L.1020, 15s. 6d. Scotch.
   Turnips are universally sown, and their management well under-
stood.  The turnip fly is often very destructive, but the writer has
never lost a crop, by sowing seeds of several years growth,-a prac-
tice which, on his recommendation, has been followed by many
with advantage.  By this plan, as the seeds of the different years ve-
getate at different periods, and as the fly does not continue long,
a crop may be depended on.  Where the manure raised is defi-
cient, it is easily procured from Aberdeen, and bone-dust is getting
into use.  There is very little ruta baga sown.  The scythe, is
universally employed to cut both oats and bear, and a month fre-
quently finishes the harvest.  Six years shifts of crops are most
general; and every farmer has a thrashing-mill.  There is only
one flock of sheep, and the number of black-cattle varies every
month with the markets.  A disease called red water has lately
appeared among new-calved cows, which, in many cases, proves
fatal.  A great improvement in the breed, both of cattle and horses,

encountered the Danes.  This supposition receives confirmation from the circumstance,
that in the part of the ground referred to, which lies nearer to Kinaldie, there have
been found tumuli containing urns, &c.  It has also occurred to the writer that this.,
is the most likely way of accounting for the origin of the name Kinaldie.


