
     Statistical Account

W. side of the parish, the soil is chiefly clay, and will yield
4 1/2 bolls an acre, rent 8 s.  By travellers passing along the
great road, Shotts is reckoned but a barren and bleak part
of the kingdom.  There is, however, on the S. W. boundary
of this parish, a tract of ground, 2 miles square, that is lit-
tle inferior to great part of the land upon the Clyde.  It
yields at an average 6 bolls an acre; rent 13 s.  The lands
in the centre, and along the north side of Shotts, are of a black
soil, and chiefly fitted for pasture; when plowed they may
yield from 3 to 4 bolls each acre; the grain is but of an in-
ferior quality; the rent 5 s. an acre.  That part of the
country lying on each side of the great road, at the entry in-
to this parish from the East, was not many years ago nearly
in its original state.  This the traveller now sees is subdivided,
and by stones raised from the surface of the land enclosed,
in a way which promises to last for ages to come.  The pro-
prietor,* by continuing his operations, with the true spirit
of an improver, has at once beautified the country, and
nearly tripled the value of his estate.  A little west from
the kirk of Shotts, and upon the great road, the traveller sees
a small tract of country neatly inclosed.  Its produce, with-
in these few years, was little more than the Thrash; but by
the well directed industry of its proprietor++, it has for some
seasons past yielded crops which vye with those of a much bet-
ter soil.  Round the mansion-house, which stands in the mid-
dle of this lately improved field, there are several belt of plant-
ing, which continue to thrive beyond expectation.  Were the
like spirit transfused into neighbouring proprietors, a coun-
try, hitherto but bleak, might be made more comfortable to
its inhabitants, and have a better name abroad.
   Manure.-The manure, which suits all the soils of this
extensive parish, is lime and compost.  The full half of this
compost should consist of dried turf, the remaining part of

<FOOTNOTE>

*Sir JOHN INGLIS of Cramond.  ++Mr DAVID YOUNG of Little Hairshaw.


