
376                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

meat from Falkirk, at a distance of three miles, or by butcher-carts,
which weekly visit the parish.
   Means of Communication.-There is, a penny-post at Carron
and another at Larbert. The mail and a daily coach pass through
Larbert, and coaches twice a-day pass through Carronshore, af-
fording conveyance to either Edinburgh or Glasgow.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Tbe parish church is most incommodious-
ly situated at the extreme west end of the parish. It contains, sit-
tings for 1200 persons, all of which are free except those appro-
priated to tbe heritors and their tenants. The manse was built
in the year, 1790, and in 1828, a large addition was made to it.
The glebe consists of four acres of good land, and of a grass glebe
of five acres. The stipend is sixteen chalders and a-half of oat-
meal and barley. A helper is employed for the united parishes, who
receives from the heritors L. 60 yearly. On the whole, the church
is well filled; in the very cold weather, many of the workmen who
are employed during the week, over large fires, are unwilling to
expose themselves to the cold of the church. There are in the
parish about 1200 Dissenters; but there is no place of worship
but the church. The Dissenters, i. e. the Seceder's, &c. go to
public worship in the Seceders' churches at Falkirk, &c.
  Education.-There are in the parish seven schools, viz. the parish
school, one endowed and five unendowed schools, at which 513 chil-
dren are regularly taught. This is a smaller number, with reference
to the population, than could be desired, and it arises in a great mea-
sure from the circumstance that the colliers, moulders, and others,
are enabled to turn their children's labour to profitable account at
the age of twelve years. The style of teaching is extremely good.
The explanatory system is adopted, and in many instances is suc-
cessfully pursued.
   English grammar, geography, writing, and arithmetic, are ge-
nerally taught. Latin is also professed in several of the schools;
but here, as elsewhere, the taste for the study of dead languages
is on the wane.
   The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and the
school fees are worth about L. 60 per annum. The usual charge
for teaching the ordinary branches, is threepence a week for each
child.
   There is a school within a reasonable distance of every house in
the parish.


