
304                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

of sandstone, claystone, porphyry, heavy spar, &c.) is traceable
up the bed of the stream for more than a hundred yards, when
it is succeeded by a dark blue compact basalt with amygda-
loidal concretions, chiefly of calcareous spar; * while this again
immediately passes into a more characteristic amygdaloid, contain-
ing, besides calcareous crystals, portions of green earth and felspar.
As we proceed onward, the country and the precipitous banks of
the glen still rising in elevation, the character of the amygdaloid
gradually disappears, and the rock is found to have passed into the
compact felspar.  A fine bold cliff, rising almost perpendicular
from the bed of the stream, and projecting from the contiguous
banks so as to form the turn of the glen, consists of this rock.  It
is of a gray and blue colour, and, besides being intersected with
numerous veins of red quartz, is somewhat remarkable from its
containing calcareous matter deposited in the form of calcareous
sinter, and red calcareous earth, so as to line the sides of nume-
rous natural cavities and fissures in the rock.  The glen abruptly
terminates in another cliff of from 50 to 60 feet in height, over
which the burn falls perpendicularly, forming a pretty linn or water-
fall ; but this last rock presents a very interesting section, being
in fact an epitome of the structure of the glen ; for the trap-tuff
which forms its basis is seen gradually passing into the basalt and
compact felspar, which last constitutes the great mass of the cliff
above the base.
  To this account of the prevailing rocks it may be proper to add,
that the vale of the Tweed at this particular part, or, to speak more
correctly, the large circular basin where the Teviot unites with
the Tweed, exhibits very many of those appearances from which
theorists generally infer excavation by the gradual subsidence of
the waters of a river.  The high and rocky banks, indeed, on the
south side of the Tweed, and the other terraces on both sides of
the river, which form the fence or girdle of this basin, may owe
their elevation and separation from each other, to some other
cause than flowing water, notwithstanding the comparatively uni-
form level of their summits and their covering of rolled gravel :
the more probable supposition doubtless being, that they were
raised by the force of internal heat when the trap-lavas which

<FOOTNOTE>It deserves remark, that, though the point of junction of the trap-tuff with the ba-
salt or amygdaloid is clearly marked, there is no appearance to indicate the transi-
tion of the one rock into teh other.  They come in contact like two perpendicular
walls, insomatch that it is impossible to determine from the appearances presented,
which is the lower and which is the higher.


