
                          EDROM.                           277

private schools about 70 each. *  The same branches are taught
in all the schools-Latin, Greek when required, mathematics, and
French; together with the ordinary branches of education, English
reading and English grammar, writing, arithmetic, and geogra-
phy.
   The school fees are nearly the same in all. The wages for
scholars under seven years of age is 10s. per annum, or 2s. 6d. per
quarter; under ten years, 12s. per annum; above ten years, 16s.
per annum, or 4s. per quarter. The wages advance after this ac-
cording to the number of branches taught.
   There are none in this parish who are not sent to school; and,
from the situation of the parochial and private schools, no part of
the parish is at so great a distance from school as to make it any
hardship for the children to attend regularly in summer and winter.
   Libraries.-There are two or three small libraries in the parish
for young people.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-Some of the parishioners are
connected with Friendly Societies in Dunse and elsewhere; but this
mode of obtaining assistance, in case of sickness and old age, is
not so much attended to as it ought.
   Savings Bank.-There is a savings bank in Dunse for this and
the neighbouring parishes. The deposits a few years ago were
considerable, but they have fallen off to a few pounds a year. One
reason for this falling off may be the reduced rate of interest. Five
per cent. was the rate of interest given, till within these two or
three years, when it was reduced to two and a-half per cent.
Another reason may be the fall in the prices of labour.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 30,-at the time of the former Statistical
Account, it was 12. The allowance to each at an average, is 2s.
per week. The assessment is about L. 150 per annum: at the
time of the former Statistical Account, it was L. 10. The collec-
tions at the church, and from the letting of a hearse and the use
of a mortcloth, have amounted, for a great many years past, to
L. 25 or L. 30 per annum. The collection at the church door
has of late, however, considerably fallen off, in consequence of the
assessment. The sum of L. 5 a-year is paid to the kirk-session for
the behoof of the industrious poor on the estate of Nisbet,-being

<FOOTNOTE>The number of scholars at the parish school is necessarily much smaller than at
the private schools, from the situation of the parish school, which is at a corner of
the parish, and hemmed in by the river Whitadder.


