
                         NORTH BERWICK.                    331

only by ladders, or a bucket and chains, raised at the crane bas-
tion; but afterwards, the ascent was by three flights of stairs within
the rampart, each protected by a strong gate: these inner gates
have long ago disappeared. The fort and the dungeons are all un-
roofed, and in ruins.-Blackader's Cell is still pointed out with its
three small iron-barred windows to the west, and awakens many a
solemn sacred feeling.-One solitary gun yet remain of the ancient
defence, now much corroded: the few other cannon on the Bass
were brought thither from Leith only in 1822, to salute George
IV. on his visit to Scotland, when the southern landing-place was
somewhat prepared in the possibility of his Majesty landing there.
The King of Belgium visited the Bass in 1819.
   About half-way up the acclivity of the rock, a little below the
old effaced garden, are the interesting remains of a chapel,
pretty entire. The niches for the fonts shew that it was built prior
to the Reformation. * When the Bass became the Bastile of
Scotland, the state-prison for the persecuted Covenanters, this
chapel was desecrated by being made the ammunition magazine
for the garrison.
   How early this island was tenanted by man, is quite unknown.
It is traditionally reported to have been a residence of Baldred,
the apostle of East Lothian, even in the sixth century. It is on au-
thentic record, that it was inhabited in the beginning of the fifteenth
century; for in 14O6, Robert III. placed his son on the Bass (after-
wards James I.) to be beyond the cruel machinations of his uncle,
the Duke of Albany, till a vessel was procured to convey him to
France; and hence he embarked in his memorable ill-fated voyage,
which terminated in his nineteen years captivity in England. It
is familiar to our readers that he was treacherously way-laid by
directions of Henry IV., and captured off Flamborougb Head: when
the intelligence was conveyed to his father in Rothesay, he sunk
in bitterest anguish into an immediate grave.

<FOOTNOTE>A few years ago, an incident occurred on the Bass, expressive of a strong linger-
ing desire to retain the chapel, occasionally, at least, for its original destination. A
young lady, in the presence of her father, was here solemnly confirmed in her Romish
faith and profession, and the due ritual services were gone through in the presence
also of the keeper of the Bass and his boat assistant. On the conclusion of the
solemnities, the priest turned to the keeper, and asked him, with due decorum, if he
would not also now kneel down before the altar, and follow them in similar dedica-
tion and worship. "Me?" said the Protestant Presbyterian James, "Me? Na,
na, am thankful' there's mair sense gi'en me.-I wad just as soon, Sir, fa' doon and
worship ane o' thae puir solan geese about us," (pointing to the myriads around
him) "than e'er gang on wi' ony sic mockery." My friend and parishioner James re-
mains an invincible adherent of the Reformation, and also, as well may be conjectured,
the Bass being ever before him, a stern abhorrent of prelatic tyranny and regal des-
potism.


