
         42                        NAIRNSHIRE.

           Literature.-There is, a parochial library, and a Literary Society
         in connection with the parish school.
            Savings Bank.-There is no savings bank nearer than Nairn.
            Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor on the roll
         is 27, and of other persons occasionally receiving aid, 15.. The
         sum allocated to each of the permanent poor is 4s. yearly.  The
         church collections average L.5, 10s. annually; besides which, there
         are L.2, 5s. per annum, being interest of a legacy of L.45 left by
         the late Mr James Dunbar of London, and some trifling casual
         donations.   The poor are indisposed to apply for parochial relief,
         which they  consider degrading, and never apply for but under
         most urgent necessity.
           Inns.-There is only one inn in the parish.  It is called the
         New Inn, and stands  on the property of Fairness.
            Fuel.-Peat is the ordinary fuel of the parisb, and is obtained
         in abundance in the ilifferent mosses, where the people cast it for
         themselves.  Wood is occasionally used, and sometimes a little
         coal, which is obtained at Nairn at from 15s. 6d. to 17s. 6d. per
         ton.

                         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
           The state of the parish as it at present exists, as compared with
         what it was, very much within the remembrance of persons now
         living, is striking in the extreme. Till a period comparatively recent,
         the peasantry and small farmers, forming the body of the population
         of the district, were in a most miserable condition.  They
         lived in hovels the entrance to which was used promiscuously by
         themselves and their cattle, one end of the dwelling being possessed
         by the latter, and the other by themselves.  The dung of the
         Animals was cleaned out at long intervals,-the work being performed
         by means of a hand-barrow, such as is used  by masons,
         and requiring two able-bodied men to accomplish it. The miden
         or dungbill was invariably in a large hollow, made for the
         purpose, at the very door. The dung was carried to the fields,
         not in " coup-carts" but in  "kellachs".of basket or wicker work.
         The horses were left unshod; and scarcely any use was made of
         iron in their implements of husbandry, except for coulter and sock,
         and barrow-tines, which last were not unfrequently made of wood,
         and for the. iron sockets which pointed their dung-forks.  To
         draw their ploughs they used four oxen or cows, and two horses
         or sometimes, six or ei,gbt black cattle without horses.  In the
         law winter evenings, their only  liaght was moss fir, split into
                                   3


