
                              PARISH OF ABERNETHY.

              PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                      THE REV. DAVID DUNCAN, MINISTER.


                     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name.-The ancient form of the name by which the town and
parish are known, was Abernethyn; and so late as 1420, Winton,
the rhyming chronicler, and prior of St Serf's Inch, in Loch Le-
ven, makes the final syllable to rhyme with the Scottish word,
"syne," (Anglice "since.")   The word evidently denotes the
town upon the Nethy, a small stream which flows through the
centre of the parish, and close by the town.  About a mile farther
down, on the same stream, and nearer to its influx into the river
Earne, is Innernethy, formerly the family residence of the Freers,
and now belonging to Sir Thomas Moncrieffe of Moncrieffe, and
a place, the name of which may be traced back to the time of King
William the Lion.
   Chalmers says, that "Neith" or "Nid" in the British lan-
guage denotes a stream that forms "whirls" or "turns," and that
Nethtan or Nethy are diminutives.*  It is proper to add, that, in
the last Statistical Account of the parish, drawn up by the father
of the present incumbent, it is alleged that the name which the
Highlanders give to Abernethy is Obair, or Abair Nadchtain, i. e.
the work of Neathan or Nectain, a name of more than one of the
Pictish kings, who are supposed to have been founders of Aber-
nethy, and by whom it wa's selected as their capital and place of
residence.
   Boundaries.-The parish is bounded on the north by the rivers
Tay and Earne; on the west, by the parishes of Dron and Dun-
barny, and the Farg, a rivulet which joins the Earne at Colfar-
gie, and flows through the romantic scenery of Glenfarg; on the
east, by a small rivulet which separates it from the parish of New-

<FOOTNOTE>Winton's Chronicle, Vol. i. p. 242,270.  Register, Aberbroath, quoted in Ja-
misson's App.  Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. i. pp. 34,480,47.


