
                        BERTRAM SHOTTS.                     629

In speaking of the climate of Shotts, he was wont to say-not in
irony-that it was the Montpelier of Scotland.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in the parochial regis-
ters bears date 1641.  These registers do not appear to have been
regularly kept until the year 1785.
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners in the parish are,
His Grace the Duke of Hamilton; Sir Thomas Inglis Cochrane
of Murdoston, M.P.; the Right Honourable Dowager Lady
Torphichen; and Robert Carrick Buchanan, Esq. of Drumpellier.

                      III.-POPULATION.
   The population of Shotts, according to a census taken by my-
self two years ago, amounts to 3750 souls.  In 1755, the number
was 2322, thus showing a very considareable increase, which is
mainly attributable to the establishment of the iron-works in the
south-east quarter of the parish.  Of the population, 1270 are
resident in villages; the remainder live in the country, and are
very much scattered.
   The yearly average of marriages for the last seven years is 47.
I cannot speak with the same degree of accuracy as to the average
of births and deaths in the parish during that period, in conse-
quence of the want of proper registers.

<TABLE>
Number of families in the parish in 1831,                                   621
              chiefly employed in agriculture,                              246
                               trade, manufactures, or handicraft,          345
Number illegitimate births in the parish during the last three years, about  20

   There are 34 proprietors of land of the yearly value of
L.50 and upwards; and it is much to be regretted that so very
few of them reside in the parish.  There are at an average 3
children in each family.  There are 12 fatuous and 2 blind
persons in the parish.  With regard to the general character of
the people, I am happy in having it in my power to state that they
are intelligent, moral, and religious.  They are more than usually ac-
tive and industrious; and although the husbandmen have been very
inadequately repaid for their labours by the crops of the last three
years, yet I have rarely heard a murmur or complaint.  Smuggling
at one time prevailed to a very considerable extent in the parish,
but is now altogether unknown amongst us.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The total number of imperial acres in the parish
is about 82,000.  From, one-half to two-thirds of the lands in the
parish are arable; the remainder is uncultivated.  At least, one-half
of the unreclaimed land might be profitability improved; but in con-
   LANARK.                                    S s


