
                            GOGHA AND CARA.                         405

     sels.  But this want of proper subdivision of labour is, as m`y be
     imagined, very unfavourablia to their acquiring habits of regular
     industry.  The young men) in general, prefer a seafaring life to
     working on shore.  They are excellent seamen.  As so many of
     the men are engaged at the fishing in spring, agricultural labour-
     ers are not easily got, at the time they are most wanted ; and those
     that are to be had, demand higher wages than are givdn in Islay
     and the more northern islands.
     I About 400 tons of potatoes, 400 quarters of bear or big, and
     150 quarters of oats are annually exported from Gigha; besides
     black cattle, horses, pigs, and sheep, butter, cheese, and eggs.
       Navigation.-There is one vessel belonging to the island, which
     registers 30 tons, and another 14 tons, which are employed in car-
     rying the produce of the island to market, and bringing coals and
     lime, &c. to it.  Besides the fishing boats already mentioned,
     which carry from three to four tons each, there are at least 20
     other smaller boats for fishing small fish near the coast.    Large
     vessels come from Ireland, the north of England, apd the Clyde
     for potatoes, and occasionally for cod and ling fish.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       Market- Town. -Campbelton is the nearest  market-town.
     The produce of the island, however, is carried by w`ter to Islay,
     Ireland, and the Clyde ; but the price of agricultural produce is
     rnuch the same here as at Campbelton.
       Means of Communication.-A steamer, which plies between
     West Loch Tarbert and Islay, passes the north end of Gigba,
     thrice in the week in summer, and once in winter, and a boat at-
     tends for the purpose of landing passengers.
       There is a ferry to the mainland from each of the properties.
     The fare of the boat is 2s., or 6d. each, if there should happen to
     be more than four passengers.
       There is no post. office nearer than Tarbert, which is eighteen
     Iniles from Tayinloan, a small village near the ferry on the main-
     land, where there is a receiving house for letters, &c.  To Tayin-
     loan there is a post from Tarbert on the one hand, and Camp-
     belton on the other, six times in the week.  There is also a car-,
     rier between Campbelton and Tayinloan once in the week.
       There is a carriage road made for five miles in Gigba, besides
     two miles of a cross road from it to the corn-mill ; and a further
     extension of the public road- to the north end is contemplated.  A


