
216                       BERWICKSHIRE.


the last six months, by Mr Roy's ingenious observation tables at
Nenthorn House, and taken at 9 A. M., is as follows:
                            1834.
        January,    40&deg;1;         April,      46&deg;1;
        February,   38            May,        57
        March,      42            June,       61

   Geology.-The ridge referred to, and rocks, which in a few
places protrude through the soil, are whinstone or trap, and
coarse red sandstone. The latter is to be met with only at two
or three points; but from its showing itself on the north and south
sides of the hill of Blinkbonny near the base, and on the same
level, it is probable that the masses of trap along the whole ridge
are superincumbent on freestone. The trap rocks are green-
stone intermixed with trap tufa and basalt. The basalt is beau-
tifully arranged in pentagonal and hexagonal columns, nearly ver-
tical, and very similar to those on Arthur's Seat.
   Botany.-This department presents nothing very interesting;
but among the more or less common plants may be mentioned,-
Dianthus deltoides, Orchis Morio, Orchis latifolia, Fedia olitoria,
Echium vulgare, Saxifraga granulata, Comarum palustre, Malva
moschata, Malva rotundifolia, Teucrium Scorodonia, Convolvulus ar-
vensis, Polygonum convolvulus, Hedera Helix, &c.

		      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-At a remote period, the parish appears to
have been the property of the De Morvilles, constables of Scotland.
   Previous to 1316, it had passed into the hands of William De
Lamberton, Bishop of St Andrew's, including the chapel of Little
Newton, the site of which is now occupied as a burial-place by the
Newton Don family. On the 6th March of that year, the Abbot
of Kelso obtained possession of these properties in exchange for
the church of Cranston in Mid-Lothian, due regard being had in
the transaction to the losses which Naithansthirn had sustained by
the wars. A pendicle of the parish was given about the end of the
same century to the monks of Kelso, to pray for the souls of the
Earls of Douglas. The village was again burnt by the Duke of
Norfolk in October 1542.
   Land-owners.-The landed properties in the order of their valu-
ation, are, Newton Don, the property of Sir William Don, Bart.;
Nenthorn, belonging to James Roy, Esq.; a portion belonging to
George Baillie, Esq. of Jerviswood; another to His Grace the
Duke of Roxburghe; and a small part to Sir John Pringle of Stit-
chel, Bart.


