
                            DALSERF.                          729

bare and unsheltered.  It ought to be mentioned, to the credit of
the Duke of Hamilton, that, within the last five or six years, planta-
tions of considerable extent, consisting of firand hard-wood of va-
rious kinds, have been laid off in the upper parts of the farms of
Skellyton and Cornsilloch, and other places, which promise to be
in good time a great benefit and ornament to the country.  The
other proprietors are doing nothing in the way of planting.  It is
the practice of the day to plant young trees in masses, from sim-
ple regard to the growth of the timber, and a cover for game,
withnut paying attention to the shelter which a more extended
distribution would afford to high lying and exposed lands.  The
writer of the present article, without contending for narrow belts,
which are seldom of much use, would recommend a compromise of
views.  He feels thoroughly assured, that if the expense incur-
red by the Duke of Hamilton in planting masses of young trees,
had gone to the formation of wide belts, over the whole barony, a
large per centage would have been added to the value of His
Grace's farms.  The only argument that can be used against this
view of the subject is the expense of maintaining fences around
the new plantations, which, by a good understanding between land-
lord and tenant, need not be much.-In the lawn in front of Dal-
serf House, there is an ash tree of great size and girth perhaps
one of the finest in Scotland, and which generally attracts the no-
tice of strangers.  At Raploch there is an ancient yew tree, one
of the few remaining traces of the old family residence of the Ha-
miltons of Raploch, and which is deserving of notice, on account
of its singular form and great size.  It has no fewer than nine
stems, all nearly of equal thickness ; the diameter of the ground
which it covers with its boughs is 40 feet ; and the circumference
of course is about 120.  It has been long known by the name of
the Raploch bush.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Machanshire (afterwards Dalserf) was anciently an appendage
and chapelry of the parish of Cadzow, (now Hamilton,) and was
for many ages the property of the crown.  The powerful family of
the Comyns at one period had possession of it ; but during the
contested reign of John Baliol, it again became part of the royal
demesnes, and continued as such	till the year 1312, when King
Robert Bruce made a grant of it to Walter, the son of Gilbert,
predecessor of the Hamilton family.  Since that period, much of
the district has been disposed to cadets of the family, and gentle-


