
   20                          BANFFSHlRE.

   from this Parliament to be reparit thereof otit of the first end of
   any sums shall be exactit, either be fineing or borrowing, from any
   of these within our awn schyre, or about our awn toun, who have
   been actually airt and part, or personally assistant to the away
   taking of our said means, or any part thereof, in this bygan tyme,
   and quha one or all of them are partly lying in our toun in a worse
   disposition nor ever they were of before."  The copy is indorsed
   "Supplicatione, Toun of Banff Bodies 1647."  The petitioners
   obtained a grant of their own excise as a means of relief.
      The Duke of Cumberland's troops passed through Banff on the
   10th November 1746, on their way to Culloden.  The only ex-
   ploits by which they signalized their visit were, the destruction of
   the Episcopal chapel, and the execution, or rather murder, of a
   poor man named Alexander Kinnaird, (from Culvie, in the parish
   of Marnoch.)  Being found with a stick notched, or seen notch-
   ing it, in a way supposed to take account of the boats passing the
   river with troops, he was taken for a spy, and immediately hanged
   on a tree, near the site of the present chief hotel.
      The last warlike visitation that befel the town was in the year
   1759, when Thurot, a French commodore, appeared off the coast,
   with intentions which were at once conjectured to bode no aug-
   mentation of the common good.  The Provost, wisely considering
   this an emergency in which the united wisdom of the community
   should be called to exercise itself in the most solemn mode known
   or in use, forthwith convened a head court of the burgh.  Here,
   however, dumb consternation was found to prevail-every one look-
   ing unutterable things on his neighbour. Luckily, in this prostra-
   tion of the faculties of the "whole heritors, feuars, burgesses, and
   other inhabitants liable to stent and taxation," who composed the
   court, there was one person capable of forming ` determination,
   and this, as became his high dignity, was the Provost.  His opi-
   nion beinir anxiously called for, was given with instant promptitude
   in favour of-running away !-A somewhat less decisive course,
   however, found favour it the eyes of one of the bailies, namely,
   that an endeavour should be made to compound with the foe for a
   certain sum;  but to this the Provost objected, tbat, as such a sum

<FOOTNOTE>A friend of the compiler's, who had lately occasion to inspect the town's records,
   has remarked it as a curious circumstance, that there in not a syllable to be found in
   them which could indicate that the country was not, at that period, in a state of the
   most profound calm; and shrewdly conjectures, that the magistrates had, with the
   characteristic caution of the nation, purposely avoided committing themselves by any
   written expression of opinion, which might stand in the way of their joining the party
   that should eventually prevail.


