
LADY.                                139

feet, where it had the appearance of having been thrown down.
It was about 12 feet wide at the bottom inside.       The wall was
fully 6 feet, in thickness, and, in some parts, a double'wall was per-
ceptible, with an intermediate space otabout 3 feet.  This double
wall went all round ; but, from the great quantity of rubbish, it
was found impossible to trace it.    There was no appearance of
door nor window, unless in the south and east sides, where two
small openings communicated with the space between the walls.  In
one of those openings' was found a bone pin, three inches long,
smoothly polished ; in the other opening, part of a very coarsely-
formed comb, made of the bone of the whale.
c6 The interior of the building was fitted up with rubbish, stones,
and gravel, and above all was a deep layer of red ashes, thickly
interspersed with the bones of cattle, sheep, swine, rabbits, and
geese, and with limpets and other shellfish.  The whole of the
buildiDg is now under ground, and must ha-,Te been so for many
generations. It has been built on a rising ground.       The sea, on
eithE r side of it, may be distant about half a mile.  From the top
of it. which, in its original state, would have been a few feet higher
than the ground which now covers it, both sides of the island would
have been seen,-a great portion of what lies to the southward and
westward-, and all that part of the island lying north-east of it.
This tower, in all probability, belonged to that description of
them of which the Castle of Mousa in Shetland is said to be the
most perfect specimen. (See Ivanhoe, last edition, Vol. ii. p. 335,)
where, in a note, the learned author gives a very interesting ac-
count of such towers, and particularly of that of Mousa.
11 About a quarter of a mile northward of the Newark tower is
a tumulus, which has never been opened.  It is covered with a
rich sward.  It is called by the country people 11 Ivar's Knowe.".
The ground.slopes gently from this kuowe to the beach, which
forms the south-east side of the Bay of Otterswick or Odenswick,
Along this beach are the remains of two or three more buildings.
About a mile south-west of these, in the centre of a marsh on the
farm of Cleatt, is another small tumulus; and about half a mile
farther south, on the same farm, is another, situated on the edge
of marshy ground, which is covered by the sea in spring-tides.  A
considerable extent of barren uncultivated ground stretches to the
south-west, alone the banks,of Otterswick, and is terminated by
the farm of Coligartb.  Many small circular mounds maybe seen
on this moor, all, or most of whicb, contain masses of,cramp.


