
                  PARISH OF URQUHART.
          PRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY.
           THE REV. JAMES MACLEAN, MINISTER.

          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THE name Urquhart appears to be compounded of three
Gaelic words, viz, oire, a coast, an edge, a brink,-fad, long,-and
amhan, a river or water; and would seem to have been imposed
to denote the great length of sea coast by which the parish is bound-
ed on one of its sides. That this etymology is the true one, "ap-
pears highly probable from two circumstances; of which one is,
that the name Urquhart is pronounced by Highlanders, when
speaking Gaelic, Urachadan, which differs very little in sound from
the three Gaelic words above-mentioned, when joined in one, and
pronounced by a Highlander: the other, that the two Highland
parishes of the same name are similarly bounded on one side; Ur-
quhart in Ross-shire by the Frith of Dingwall, and Urquhart in
Inverness-shire by Lochness,-the line of coast in each being of
very considerable length."
  Boundaries,&c.-The parish of Urquhart is bounded on the north
by a line of sea coast 5 miles in length, extending from the mouth
of the river Lossie on the west, to that of the river Spey on the east;
and an equilateral triangle erected on this line as a base, gives a
pretty correct idea of its shape or figure. It excludes from the
sea the two contiguous parishes, St Andrews Lhanbryd on the
west, and Speymouth on the east, which two parishes meet where
the parish of Urquhart terminates on the south. The barony of
Garmouth, situated in the angle formed by the river Spey and the
sea coast, was annexed, quoad sacra, to the parish of Speymouth;
but the teinds of that barony still form a part of the fund from
which the incumbent of Urquhart derives his income.
   Topographical Appearances.-The sea coast, through its whole
extent, is a sandy beach, with the exception of a small rock called
"The Bear's Head," not visible at high water. The shore has no
creek or landing-place capable of receiving or accommodating so much


