
                 PARISH OF WESTRAY.

                    PRESBYTERY OF NORTH ISLES, SYNOD OF ORKNEY.

                        THE REV. JOHN ARMIT, MINISTER.



                        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
               Name.-WESTRAY obviously derives its name from the place
            it holds among the group of islands which lie to the north of the
            mainland of Orkney, called North Isles. It is situated in the
            north-west extremity of the country, and is the isle farthest west
            of the group.
               Extent.-Its superficial contents may amount to about 25 square
            miles. But, owing to its very irregular form, its numerous inlets,
            and projecting points, its precise dimensions cannot be ascertained
            but by an experienced surveyor. In the centre, and towards the
            eastern parts, the surface, with few exceptions, is low and flat;
            but in the Rapness district, which forms the southern extremity,
            the ground on the north or north-east suddenly rises, which makes
            the shore in that quarter bold and lofty. The precipices there
            may be from 140 to 150 feet above the level of the sea.
               Topographical Appearances.-In the western extremity, there is
            a range of hills called Skea, Fitty, and Gallo, &c. extending from
            south to north, to the distance of four miles and upwards. On Fitty,
            the highest of these, the trigonometrical surveyors, in the autumn
            of 1821, pitched their tents, and erected a temporary building,
            which remains nearly entire.  The height of this hill as then asce-
            rtained, was, to the best of my recollection, 652 feet above the level
            of the sea. The island on the western extremity, to the distance
            of more than four miles, is bounded by a shore of perpendicular
            rock, wasbed by the floods of the Atlantic. At its base, from which
            the sea never recedes, a few places only excepted, the depth is
            from eight to twenty fathoms. All along the lofty and rugged
            cliffs of this shore, an immense variety of sea fowl nestle and bring
            forth their young; and numbers of the young and old birds, dur-
            ing  the season of incubation, are taken by the inhabitants, both
            for food and their feathers, which they turn to good account.
                                            3

