
556			AYRSHIRE.

materially during a long period, since, while the number of inha-
bitants of the whole parish was rising from perhaps between 3000
and 4000 to 20,000, there had not been a new place of worship
erected in connexion with the Church of Scotland for more than a
hundred years. Although the number of careless persons is unhap-
pily great, the general body of the people show the utmost respect
for the sacred ordinances of religion,--the average number of com-
municants in the Low and St Marnock's Churches jointly being
1600, and there being still amongst us no small portion of the an-
cient west country Presbyterian feeling and love of the Gospel
The Roman Catholics in the Low parish, who are nearly all Irish,
were believed, in October 1836, to amount to between 600 and
700. Their priest is stationed in Ayr, and visits them periodically.
The bishop resides in Glasgow.
	Besides a male and a female benevolent society, and a dispen-
sary, there are a female society for religious purposes, whose funds
amount to about L. 30 a-year; and a parochial association recently
established for promoting the religious schemes of the General
Assembly, and other missionary purposes.
	It may also be mentioned, that a library has lately been esta-
blished by subscription, in connexion with the parish church and
St Marnock's, as a means of promoting a taste for sound reading
and the Christian instruction of all classes. It has been named
the Mackinlay Library, in honour of an aged minister, who, in his
eighty-second year, retains the buoyant spirit and fire of youth,
and who has for more than half a century been highly and deserv-
edly popular as a divider of the word of truth among this people.
	High Church.--The High Church parish is confined to the
upper ward of the town, and from this circumstance the parish
derives its name; for though its elevation is not great, it is a few
feet higher than the site of the Low Church, which is the original
parish. The plan has been borrowed from St Martins-in-the-
Fields, London, which is reckoned the most succesful effort of
Gibb, the Scottish architect. The plan, however, is stript of
many of the ornaments of the original, as executed in the High
Church, and particularly of the splendid portico. The exterior
is plain, and the elevation of the tower may be about 80 feet. The
interior is well lighted; and the roof, which is a piece of finished
workmanship, is supported  by a double row of elegant pillars, of
the composite order. It contains 952 sittings, is about a square
within, and an oblong square without, and is kept in the best re-
                             3


