
                                 CAMPBELTON.                             465

     villas and cottages are ranged along the north and south shore.
     It is also well protected from the weather, as it lies at the bottom
     of a beautiful salt water lake or inlet of the sea, of about two
     miles long by somewhat less than a mile in breadth. From
     the town the loch appears completely land-locked, by reason of
     the conic`l island of Devar which lies at the entrance of the bay,
     and intercepts both the view and the violence of the waves.  The
     municipal government of the burgh is vested in a provost, two bai-
     lies, dean of guild, and twelve councillors. The magistrates, she-
     riff, and justices hold courts regularly within the town-house, which
     is a respectable looking building, with a handsome spire, and con-
     tains, besides the town-council chambers, a large ball, in which the
     courts are held.  The custom-house department consists of a col-
     lector, comptroller, and two tide-waiters ; and the excise depart-
     ment, of a collector, two clerks, three supervisors, and fifty officer&
     The population of the burgh within the Parliamentary boundary
     in 1841, was 6797, and the constituency 245.  This burgh joins
     Ayr, Irvine, Inverary, and Oban, in returning a Member to Par-
     liament.  There is a weekly market in the town every Thursday,
     for the sale of grain and other farm produce.  The gross amount
     of the revenue of the burgh is L.988, 3s. 7 1/2d.
       Villages.-The village of Dalintober is incltded in the Parlia-
     mentary boundaries. There is a small village situated five miles
     from Campbelton, at the southern extremity or headland of
     Salt Pans, Machrihanish Bay. It is composed of a few cottages,
     inhabited chiefly by fishermen ; and is famed for the excellent
     quality of cod-fish caught here.  The village is called Salt Pans,
     and takes its name from the neighbourhood of a work established
     here at a remote period for the manufactory of sea-salt, but which
     for many years has been disused.
       Turnpike Roads.-There are no turnpike roads in this parish,
     The roads and bridges are kept in excellent order principally by
     Statute labour.
       Ecclesiastical State.-Campbelton contains two parish churches;
     in one of which Gaelic is preached, and in the other English;
     the former was built in 1803, and the latter in 1780.  The Gae-
     lie church is capable of accommodating 2006 sitters, and the
     Englishh, or Castle Church, situated where once stood the castle
     of the Lord of the Isles, contains from 1000 to 0200 sittings.
     The manse of the first or Highland charge was built in 1835, at
     an expense of L. 1300; but there is no manse at present for the
      ARGYLE.                                          Gg

