
                             DALSERF.                    735

mon was preached in the churchyard of Dalserf, by the Rev. Dr
Symington of Paisley, and a collection made for the purpose of
erecting a suitable monument to Mr M'Millan's memory.
   There is no history of the, parish, either printed or in manu-
script; but some interesting notices of its former state and condi-
tion, and of the families of the principal heritors, may be found in
Hamilton of Wishaw's manuscript History of Lanarkshire, and in
Anderson's Memoirs of the Hamilton Family and its branches.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, thll they came
into the hands of the present schoolmaster and session-clerk, bad
been very irregularly kept.  Indeed, for nearly fifty years preced-
ing 1812, there had been no regular session in the parish.  In
August 1812, a kirk-session was formed, and from that date there
are accurate minutes of session business, and carefully kept regis-
ters of proclamations of bans and of baptisms.  Of late years a
register of burials has also been kept.  The old Parochial records
are contained in two volumes of a very confused and miscellaneous
description.  The earliest entry is the registration of a baptism,
30th November 1738.
   Eminent Men.-The parish has little to boast of in the way of
eminent characters connected with it, either by birth, residence,
or burial.  In addition to the names of persons already incidentally
noticed, however, it may be mentioned, that there is a tradition
that the celebrated Bishop Burnet once lived at Broomhill, and
that he there wrote a part of his works.  This is probably a mis-
take.  At least, the tradition cannot be authenticated, and has pro-
bably arisen from his being confounded with the before-mentioned
James Hamilton, Bishop of Galloway and Laird of Broomhill.
The Rev. James Hog, whose name appears rather prominent in
public affairs during the stormy period succeeding the revolution
of 1688 and who was one of the authors of the well-known book
called the "Marrow of Modern Divinity," which caused so much
controversy and discussion in the church, was for some time minis-
ter of Dalserf.  He appears to have been a talentedt learned, and,
pious man; both as a member of the church courts and as a parish
minister, he had his own share of difficulties and troubles; and
after a short ministry, resigned his charge.  After a brief interval
he was appointed minister of Carnock, where he laboured with
much acceptance and success for many years. *  Mr Hog was the

<FOOTNOTE> See interesting notice of this individual in a late Edinburgh Christ-
tian Instructor.


