

                            ST ANDREWS.                             173

     ter, with perhaps as many of mud.  It falls five feet of.perpendi-
     cular height, in dry seasons, and is then only seven feet above the
     level of the sea.  In winter, it has been so completely frozen, as
     to be safely crossed on foot.
        From the small extent of territory in this part of the mainland
     of Orkney, running water never attains a magnitude greater than
     a paltry rill.  And none of the springs, all of which are inconside-
     rable, possess a temperature above that of the climate, or manifest
     any remarkable chemical properties.
        Geology and Mineralogy.-The direction of the strata of rocks
     is generally from east-south-east to west-north-west, with the dip
     to north-north-east.  Their inclination varies from 5&deg;, to 13&deg;, and,
     in some situations, even more.  Around the lake, they range al-
     most from east to west; and, at one part of the precipitous coast
     on the east, they seem completely deranged; sometimes, contrary
     to the general rule, ranging from south-west to north-east, with the
     dip to the north-west, and, at other times, while ranging in the
     same direction, dipping to the south-east, and indicating the exist-
     ence of subterranean action in their neighbourhood, at some remote
     period.  From a remarkable aperture in these rocks, called the
     Hole of Row, northwards for a quarter of a mile, entire disorder
     prevails. The strata lie in all directions ; the beds are undu-
     lated in their form, more inclined than in other places, and
     some of them placed in an almost vertical position.  Along the
     sea-coast, on the north, some other traces of derangement appear.
        The prevailing rocks are argillaceous sandstone and sandstone
     flag, apparently belonging to the old red sandstone formation.  But
     trap dikes evidently occur at the place where the strata are so
     much deranged.  Traces of cale-spar and iron pyrites are found
     in the vicinity of the latter, and of bog iron ore in the marshes.
     We do not know that any fossil organic remains, either animal or
     vegetable, were ever discovered in this place.
        The rocks are, in all cases, covered with red clay, mixed with
     gravel, over which rest sand, loam, or peat.  Peat occurs both on
     the higher and lower grounds.  In almost all instances, it is of a
     light and spongy consistence, of a chesnut colour, and apparently
     composed chiefly of moss and heath.  But, at the bottom of deep
     moors, it is blacker, more friable,-and when dried, harder than in
     other situations ; and contains branches of trees in a half-decayed
     state.  Within the last five years, in the course of trenching a bog
     about a quarter of a mile from the minister's house, hazel-nuts


