
42                               SELKIRKSHIRE.

turnip-fly which is now destructive, is a beetle, Haltica nemorum;
but from its being generally bred on the manure, to burn a little
straw over the surface is found an effectual way of killing it. The
large and beautiful green caterpillar, dotted with pencils of black
spines, of the Emperor-moth, or Saturnia spini, (Phalana pavonia,
Lin.) is often found feeding on the health, where it fixes the brown
silk bag it weaves for its winter habitation. But the month itself, nearly
as large as a wren, is rarely seen. There ard several insects also
that injure fruit trees,--cankering the leaves, and eating the blossom.
     Botany.-- The botany, like the mineralogy of the district,
and probably connected with it, is very uniform. The more rare
plants are Rubus chamorus, which arrives at perfection only
on Dryhope, Blackhouse, and Kirkstead; Festuca vivipara on the
N. skirts of Wardlaw and Altrive; Vaccinium oxycoccos on Gil-
disgreen and Shaws; trientalis European on Blackhouse Heights;
Trollius Europaeus and Cnicus heterphlyllus in a cleugh falling
into Douglas burn; Sedum villosum; Circea Alpina on S. E .
verge of St Mary's Loch; Cochlearia officinalis, in the springs
along the ridge between Newburgh and Eldinhope; Campanula
latifolia in a ravine, Deuchar Hope; Drosera rotundifolia, Deu-
char Hope; Scutellaria galericulata in pond at Whitehope;
Melampyrum sylvaticum in Newhouse Bank; Allium ursinum
and Adiantum capillus veneris, at Newhaugh Lynns; Thalic-
trum alpinum on the opposite bank of helburn. The me-
dicinal plants best known are Tormentalla officinalist, the root of
which is uncommonly astrigent, good for sore throats, and effica-
cious in curing old ulcers; Achillea millefolium, which is common
in Yarrow, and highly astringent also; Linnum cactharticum, a pur-
gative when boiled; Menyanthes trifoliant, used as a tonic, an in-
fusion from the leaves being taken for stomach complaints, and
mixed with L. catharticum for rhematism; Digitals purpurea
and Alsine media absorbents, and applied for swellings, &c.
     In former times, the straths of the Ettrick Forest. The name is
still retained, but is no longer characteristic of the country, which
is almost one continous sheep-walk. The woods began to be
cleared several centuries age; and the depth of the many mosses
may point in some degree to the period of thier destruction or de-
cay. The only remnant of the old forest,where the identical trees
still stand, is believed to be a few oaks on West Falshope Hill;
but they are remarkable for thier age alone, being small stunt-



