
				ROTHES.                         229

which cover nearly 800 imperial acres, all of which are particularly
thriving, and some of them nearly advanced to maturity.  In the
more elevated parts of the parish, there is a considerable extent of
hill, moor, and moss ground, which never has been in cultivation ;
on the greater part of which heath and natural grass grow, afford-
ing pasturage to flocks of sheep; and the remainder consists of
peat-moss, which is highly serviceable to the population as an ar-
ticle of fuel.
  The soil along the margin of the river consists, in general, of a
deep and fertile loam,--in some places, of beds of pure clay ; in
others, of a mixture of light sand and coarse gravel, superinduced
by the floods. Along the bottom of the hills, the mould is sharp
and gravelly; and on the hill-side, moss-earth is to be met occa-
sionally. Within the last twenty or thirty years, great and import-
ant improvements in the system of agriculture have been intro-
duced by a regular rotation of cropping, and the judicious use of
lime as a manure. Portions of waste land have been thus reclaim-
ed, and are now become tolerably productive.
  The geological features of the parish, so far as yet ascertained,
are few and simple. At the southern extremity, is the lofty and pic-
turesque rock of the lower Craigellachie, consisting of huge detached
masses of quartz; and between that and the village of Rothes, a short
distance to the south-west,is another somewhat remarkable and con-
spicuous eminence called Conerock, also of quartz, and of similar
character; and both present the appearance of having, at an early pe-
riod, experienced the effects of some awful revolution of nature. By
fracturing the blocks of quartz which form the hill of Conerock, as
well as examining their surface, beautiful specimens of rock-crystal,
of various sizes, are met with, and, some years age, they were eager-
ly sought after by the curious. Similar specimens are also found
in other localities of the parish. Erratic blocks of granite, of
greater or less dimensions, are scattered here and there ; and al-
though no continuous, or regular mass, or rock of granite, has yet
been discovered, it is the decided opinion of geologists, that gra-
nite, sometimes passing into gneiss, is the prevailing character of
the underlying strata. A kind of sandstone, possessed of consider.
rable hardness, and placed in regular laminae, walls the sides of the
mountain-streams already alluded to, while, in otber parts of their
course, quantities of mica-slate, imbedded in,blocks of granite, ap-
pear.
  Climate.-The climate of Rothes is genial and temperate; and


