
     Statistical Account

   Springs, Minerals, Hills, etc.-There is no river of
stream, of any considerable size, the Clyde only except-
ed, along the banks of which the parish lies for 4 or 5
miles.  There are a few mineral springs, which are
thought to be serviceable in curing the scurvy, stomachic
complaints, etc.  Calcined metals, and petrified vegetables,
are found in different quarters; but there are no remark-
able volcanic appearances.-Coal abounds every where.
In general, however, the strata which have been as yet dis-
covered, are thin, not exceeding 26 or 3o inches.  In one
quarter of the parish, indeed, mostly belonging to the Earl of
Hyndford, there is one vein, or rather several rich veins,
from 7 to 0 feet deep.  Free-stone, lime and iron-stone, are
found, almost in every part of it.-There is no eminence
meriting the name of mountain.  There are, however, seve-
ral little hills, called laws, which have had, or still have

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

Some diseases may be stated, as arising from fancy, or a disrodered imagina-
tion merely.  An old man died here some time ago, who had, for upwards of
20 years, believed himself to he tormented by a magician. "This magician,"
as he described it, "by means of a mathematical head resembling his, opened his
"skull every night, and dropt into his brain red hot needless, which produced the
"most painful and excruciating torments." Though naturally active and labo-
rious, this fancy at last disabled him for work.  In every other respect, he was
perfectly reasonable, and appeared to have the free enclose of his understand-
ing-There is a woman alive here at present, who has, for more than 30 years,
been occasionally possessed with a dumb spirit.  When this spirit of dumbness, in-
deed, leaves her she makes ample amends for her long silence.  But the is ge-
nerally seized with it again in a year or two.  She then appears to have forgot
the use of speech; and, for years, her teeth are so fixed together, that it is with
the utmost difficulty the can receive the necessaries of lite.-A whimsical, but
pious old man, died lately, who, from his extreme humility, and mistaken respect
to the doctrines of grace, resolved to abandon the practice of good works for
six weeks left (as he said) he should be tempted to boast of them, or to rest on
them alone, to the dishonour of his Master, 2nd as if meriting at the hand of
God.  Of his having adhered to this resolution, a female domestic gave to the
world, ducut 9 months after a pregnant and living proof.

</UNREADABLE>


