
     102                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

     and 1442 females.  Baptisms are from 60 to 70; and marriages
     from 25 to 30,-on an average of the last few years.
        Language of the People.- The language of the people is gene-
     rally Gaelic, but a great many of them speak English also. The
     people, for the most part, are decent, orderly, and industrious in
     their habaits. Cotton cloths are much used by them.  Their or-
     dinary food is potatoes and fish, bread, gruel, pottage, milk, but-
     ter, and chesse, and a little animal food.  They, however, complain
     of their circumtances, like the people of neighbouring parishes,-
     which is much owing to the atgmentation of rent, which took place
     in the time of the French war, and still remains for the most part
     unreduced.  They have suffered, also, by the failure of the herring
     fishing on this coast for several years back, and the low price of
     cattle,-two important sources of their comfort.  It is true there is
     a censiderable rise in the price of cattle this year; but it is doubt-
     ful how long that may continue.

<TABLE>
     Number of families in the parish,                          559
               chicfly employed in agriculture,                 387
                  in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,         31

         Within the last three years there have been 5 or 6 illegitimate
     children.

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
     Number of acres, standard imperial measures, in the parish, which are either
             cultivated or occasionally in tillage, about                     1800
     There are more than 300  square miles which can never admit of cultivation,
             but must always remain in pasture.
     Number of acres that might be added to the cultivated land, with a profitable
             application of capital, from                               400 to 500
     Number of acres under wood, but none planted except about 30 acres at the
             mansion-house of Applecross,                                      400
        Farms in general are of small extent. A few them pay from
     L. 30 to L. 50 rent.  But the generality of the farms consist of
     townships, where the tenants pay from L. 4 or L. 5 to L. 9 or
     L. 10.  There are few lease; excepting a few near the man-
     sion-house of Applecross.  The rental of the parish is upwards of
     L. 300; but some of the rents are irregularly and ill paid.  Meal,
     grain, and potatoes are often imported, as the produce of the soil
     is not sufficient to support the inhabitants.  The manure used for
     the land is compound dunghills, shelly sand, sea-ware, and a little
     lime.  There has been much improvedment of the late in agricultural
     instruments.  Iron ploughs are used, two horses to the plough,
     directed by the ploughman without a driver.  Formerly four horses
     were used to a plough, with a ploughman and driver, and other
     two persons to keep down the plough in the ground, and level the



