
     Statistical Account

hand, 19 miles from Kilmarnock, the great road to Ayr-
shire, by that town, running directly through the parish.  It
may contain about 3000 Scotch acres, including  the lands
of Dripps above mentioned, and is almost wholly ara-
ble, except some few spots, upon the steep banks of the
Cart, to which the plough cannot have access.  The
district is rich and fertile above many in the neigh-
bourhood, and pours in its surplus stores, to supply the de-
mands of the populous commercial city of Glasgow.  On
entering the parish from Glasgow, strangers have been
much pleased with the face of the country.  Instead of a
dull uniform level, as is the case with the most fertile tracts
of Scotland, the surface is remarkably diversified with hill
and dale.  The hills do not rise in ridges, but are altoge-
ther separate and distinct from each other, and present to
the eye those alternate risings and falls, which constitute so
material a part of picturesque beauty.  The hills, in the
northern extremity of the parish, never attain to such a
height, or ascend  with such steepness, as to prevent them
from being cultivated to the top; and their sloping sides
are, in their season, always covered with the richest crops
of grass and corn.  Through these hills, the Cart winds its
way in a very irregular course, sometimes disappearing al-
together, by the steepness of its banks, and again spreading
itself out into the plain.  On advancing farther into the pa-
rish, in the same direction, a succession of hills of greater
height, and less pleasing aspect, takes place, and the land
becomes gradually more bleak and barren.  Great part of
it, however, is raised but little above the level of the sea,
which is known by  its being almost on the same plain with
Glasgow, to which the tide regularly ebbs and flows.

   Soil and Rent.-Small as the parish is, it is distinguished
by a great variety of soil and exposure.  In general, the low-
er parts of the parish are light and sandy.  The centrical


