
     Statistical Account

It is not easy to say what the rate of conversion is, being dif-
ferent on the properties of the several heritors.  In stating
the rent of the parish, we have set no value on the exten-
sive plantations of growing timber, which must bring a con-
siderable revenue to the proprietors in a few years, and may
probably be estimated at L. 30,000.  As the greatest part of
the lands in the parish have been measured by surveyors, we
can give a pretty exact account of the number of acres of a-
rable ground, which are reckoned to be about 2250, exclu-
sive of woodlands and pasture ground that has never been
cultivated.  The lands have let at various prices; some acres
at 20 s. some at 17 s. 15 s. 12 s. 10 s. and none below 8 s;
but, as the arable and pasture grounds, both in the high and
low districts of the parish, are usually let to tenants in the
lump, without distinguishing the value of each acre, the
above estimate is but conjectural, though founded on the
best information that can be had.  One third part of the
whole arable land in the parish is now in the possession of
the proprietors, and has been occupied by them for several
years past.  How far this may be favourable to their interests,
they will be best able to judge when they sum up their ac-
counts of profit and loss; but it is the prevailing opinion in
this country, that gentlemen of fortune and landed property
rather lose than gain by extensive farms.  No doubt, much
depends on their being fortunate in getting skillful, active,
and faithful overseers.  All the gentlemen's farms in this pa-
rish are at present managed, either by natives of the south of
Scotland, or by persons bred to farming there.  It may there-
fore be expected that the same implements of husbandry, and
the same rotation of crops, will be found on those farms
which are under their management, as we see in Fife of East
Lothian, except when a different mode of farming is pur-
sued, to gratify the views of the proprietor.  The next in


