
                                LARGS.                            795

tentions between his people and the Scotch were terminated soon
after by the marriage of one of Alexander's daughters to Eric, the
son and successor of Haco.
   An ingenious paper was drawn up on the subject of this battle
and its localities, by the late John Dillon, Esq. a man of high ta-
lent for research, and to whom the country is indebted for labours
which have not been appreciated as they ought. It  is published
in the seventh volume of the Transactions of the Society of Scotch
Antiquaries.  He shows with plausibility that the landing of the
Norwegians must have taken place between the soutli end of Bris-
bane Crescent and Fairlie burn, and that the conflict took place
immediately below Haylee.  We refer those who are desirous of
studying the minutiae of this enterprise to Mr Dillon's paper, and
to Mr Tytler's History.
   On the death of Dervorgill, the lordship of Largs fell to her
son John Baliol, who forfeited the same upon the accession of
Bruce, who conferred this Lordship on his son-in-law, Walter, the
steward of Scotland.  Largs and Cunninghame continued sepa-
rate districts, and are mentioned as distinct baronies in the charter
of Robert II., settling the privileges of the burgh of Irvine, 8th
April 1372.  To this charter Hugo de Eglynton is a witness.
It was during this reign that these baronies were placed under the
charge of one bailie, and were subsequently called the Bailiary of
Cunninghame, which has since formed the northern division of
Ayrshire.  The barony of Largs was afterwards parcelled out
among the vassals of the Stewarts.  The church and parish of
Largs formed a rectory, the patronage of which belonged to the
lordship of Largs.
   On the 30th of January 1318-19, Walter the Stewart, for the
safety of his own soul and that of his late spouse, Marjory Bruce,
granted the church of Largs in pure and perpetual alms to the
Monastery of Paisley.  The village of Largs was formed in the
immediate vicinity of the church, and soon increased in population.
   In the reign of James I., a dispute arose between the Abbot of
Paisley and Robert Boyd of Tinwald, who laid claim to the fruits,
of the church of Largs.  The following letter passed under the
privy-seal on this occasion, and proved the means of settling the
dispute : " James, be the grace of God, Kyng of Scottis, till our
lovid Robert Boid of Tynwald gretynge: Foralsmekill as we are
informit the yhe adres yhou to be at the Kyrk of Largyss on Fri-


