
6                      RENFREWSHIRE.

that, in 1755, there was only one foot six inches of water at seve-
ral of the fords (in summer) opposite the grounds of Eldersly;
whereas there are now about six feet all the way up. And, as there
is a rise of nearly six feet more during ordinary tides, twelve feet
water have thus been secured. With spring tides,under high west and
south-west winds, it may even rise to sixteen feet and upwards. Here
at the period referred to, the width of the river at these places was
from 684 to 884 feet, and now it runs from 230 to 280.* Operations
for deepening the channel commenced soon after 1770, and have
been chiefly directed to two points,-the confining of the current
by parallel dikes and banks, and the deepening of the bed of the ri-
ver,-latterly by dredging-machines, which are wrought by steam.+
   Geology and Mineraloqy.-Nearly the whole of the low grounds
in this parish are strictly alluvial.The subsoil consists chiefly of
extensive beds of sand, often interspersed with thin strata of clay,
sometimes of moss (peat-bog,) and occasionally interrupted with
large masses of solid unstratified clay. The disposal of these and
other deposits strongly indicates a submarine formation. Selecting
a piece of land near the centre of this level tract, we had pits dug
round several fields for examining the upper strata. And after
passing through the soil, we sometimes found a few inches of clay,
and at other times of moss, but more generally sand. Between
the layers of sand, we found large deposits of the oxide of iron
(which gives the water a rusty appearance,) but no ironstone;
and often a quantity of coal gum, interspersed with pieces of coal,
containing probably from one to six or eight cubical inches. This
coal deposit, we found generally a few inches under the soil, and
probably from two feet and a-half to three feet under the surface,
and uniformly water-worn. We have repeatedly burned the coal,
and found it to burn clearlylike gas coal, and to be remarkably light.+
Beneath this, we sometimes came to a fine sand, naturally white,

<FOOTNOTE>This, as well as the constant agitation of the water by steamers, may in part ac-
count for the small quantity of ice now found on the river. Old people recollect,
when coals and other materials were usually carted across the Clyde on the ice for
many weeks together; and even so late as 1814, the people on the north side are said
to have walked over to church for four or five Sabbaths in succession. Anything of
the kind occurring now would be accounted very wonderful.
   Much important information will be found, respecting the improvements of the
river, in Dr Cleland's Statistical Work, and in the Account of Glasgow in this work.
Farther improvements are at present under consideration. An Engineer's Report
now before me, contains plans for deepening, the whole bed of the river to not less
than 20 feet, at high water, during neap-tides, and at an expense of L.377,867,2s.91/2d.
   This coal deposit, which must have been left by the water, is partially spread over
the whole plain; as we lately found it, on the west of the Cart, at a distance of near-
ly two miles from the other.


