
                             YARROW.                            31

feet.  It gives the yearly average from 1821 to 1831 inclusive, as
follows:-

<TABLE>
         No. of days the wind blows from each point.  Fair              Mean of
                                                      days. Rain. Snow  Barom.
     W.  N.W.   N.   N.E.   E.   S.E.   S.   S.W.

     71   35    15    22    40    16    28   101      154   169    42    29.44

  On the 26th February 1808, the barometer stood as high as
30.80, and on 25th December 1821, it fell to 27.80, indicating a
range of three inches; but in general the annual variation is only
two inches.  It appears that the prevailing winds are S. W. and
W., and the our greatest rains are in August, September, and
October.  There has also been kept at Bowerhope a register
of the first appearance of flowering of several of the deepest rooted
plants, which makes the frequent difference of seasons, reckoned
by this rule, to be eight days, and the greatest a fornight.  The
Luminous Arch and the Lunar Rainbow have been witnessed but
two or three times within the last thirty years.  The Polar Lights
are still often visible.  At present, they very seldom pass or even
reach the zenith; but about half a century ago they seem to have
been more common, and to have stretched in fantastic groups and
sweeping undulations quite to the southern horizons.
  Prognostics from Atmospheric Phenomena. *--For an account of
the various prognostics of the weather applicable to his district, and
no doubt to many others, we are indebted to one on whose intelli-
gence and accurancy we can implicity rely.  First, as to pronostics
from atmospheric phenomema.--When there is a copious deposit of
dew, and it remains long on the grass; when the fog in the valleys is
slowly disspated by the sun's heat, and lingers on the hills; when
the clouds apparently take a higher station; and especially when a
few cirro-strati appear loose or slightly connedted, lying at rest or
gently floating along, serence weather may be confidently expected.
A change of this settled state is presaged by the wind suddenly
rising, by close continous cirro-strati gathering into an unbroken
gloom, and by that variety known as the goat's hair or grey mare's
tail.  Sometimes a few light fleecy clouds skim rapidly between
the superincumbent vapour and the earth's surace, and are the
forerunners of snow or rain.  Should the cirri not pass away with
the immediate fall, but extend towards the horizon, and present
their troubled edges towards the zenith, there will be stormy
weather for some time.  When a modification of the cirro-stratus

<FOOTNOTE>It will be obseved that the prognostics here enumerated have an extensive ap-
plication throughout Scotland.--J.


