
40                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

On the high grounds there is a good deal of moor, bog, and peat-
moss.
  Botany.--In his Flora Glottiana, Mr Hopkirk frequently refers
to places in this parish as producing rare, or not very common
plants; among which may be noticed Achillea tomentosa; Hiera-
cium aurantiacum, though probably not native; and Cicuta virosa,
said to be rare in Scotland, but abundant here.  To these may
be added Pyrola secunda, which has escaped Mr Hopkirk's obser-
vation, but is found on the Kilpatrick hills.
   Of Forest trees the beech seems most congenial to the soil, and
attains the greatest size.  At Balvie there is an avenue of tall and
handsome beeches, none of them remarkable for size, taken sing-
ly, but worthy of notice for the uniformity of height and girth of
so great a number.  A much larger than any of these grows at
Dugalstone.  At three feet from the ground, it measures 16 feet
in circumference; and its branches cover a space of 22 yards dia-
meter. Other forest trees are found of considerable size, and the
soil seems favourable to the fir tribe. A Scotch fir was recently
cut at Garscube, which measured upwards of nine feet in girth at
three feet from the ground, and contained 155 solid feet of tim-
ber: and two more growing at Balvie are of nearly as large a size.
At Dugalstone tbereare many large and, beautiful spruce and
silver firs. Ashes, elms and sycamores, thrive well; but the oak
is preferred for new plantations, though we have none of great
size or age. A walnut tree at Mains measures 11 1/2 feet in girth.
   Zoology.--In this department we have here most of those ani-
mals which are common to the Lowlands of Scotland, together
with some which belong to mountainous regions. Game is abun-
dant, yet not so much so as to injure the farmer. We are occa-
sionally visited by the roe-deer, breaking away from his haunts in
the woods of Buchanan. Black-game and grouse are numerous
in the muirland parts of the parish, partridges in the fields, and
pheasants in the plantations. The woodcock too is found, but
more rarely. Of water-fowl we bave the wild-goose and wild-
duck, the sheldrake, widgeon, teal, and various divers. Besides
these, under the head of game, for we do not pretend to any scien-
tific arrangement, we have the golden and the grey plover, the cur-
lew, land-rail and water-rail, the snipe and the heron. Of birds
of prey we have the kite, or salmon-tailed glede, the common buz-
zard, the white hawk, large gray hawk the snipe and sparrow
hawks, and what is here called the hunting-hawk. Of birds of


