
358                            DUMFRIES-SHIRE.


	Education.--There are three schools in the parish. The num-
ber of scholars amounts nearly to 200. The parochial teacher has
the maximum salary, and L. 40 per annum from the Hutton be-
quest. A considerable number of young men from the neighbour-
hood and also from England board with Mr Hill, the present pa-
rochial teacher; and two assistants are kept in his school. Under
his auspices, this establishment has acquired considerable celebrity
as a commercial academy. The other two schools are situated at
the extreme ends nf the parish--the parochial one being centrical.
They are supported out of the Hutton bequest and other mortifica-
tions, of which some account will afterwards be given. The pre-
sent teachers, Messrs M'William and Beattie, are both very re-
spectable men, and deserving of much better situations. Each re-
ceives L. 20 per annum, but the school fees are low, and not well
paid in any of the three schools. The ordinary branches are
taught, with the addition of French, Greek, Latin, and the higher
branches of mathematics in the parish school. The people are
fully alive to the advantages of education, and none are ignorant of
the arts of reading, writing, and common arithmetic. No addi-
tional schools seem to be required, although it has been found
necessary to enlarge the dimensions of the parochial school. This
operation is now in progress.
	Library.--There is a parochial library, which was instituted
two years ago by the present incumbent. It has been supported
hitherto by two grants of L. 10 each from the Hutton bequest;
one collection in the church; and the annual payment of 1s. from
each reader. The number of volumes exceeds 200  *.
	Poor.--The number of persons receiving parochial aid is about
70. These receive from L. 1, 10s. to L. 7 yearly. The division
is made twice a-year; but some are of opinion, that a monthly
division would be more beneficial to the poor themselves. A
few pounds appear a great sum to a very poor person; hence,

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Hutton's deed of mortification provides that part of the surplus revenue
shall be devoted to " the buying of Bibles, with other pious and religious books,
for the use of ruch poor as are not able to purchase the same." It occurred to the
writer that this might be fairly construed into authority for instituting and sup-
porting a pariah library. A query to this effect was therefore distinctly put to coun-
sel, and the writer felt much pleasure in finding the following remark in the Opinion
of the Solicitor-General, Mr Cockburn, with which Mr Cuninghame, the present So-
licitar-General. agrees. " In the first place, they." viz. the trustees "may make the
best, and best managed parish library in Scotland." English counsel is not so clear
as to the power of the trustees on this point without the authority of a court,--at
least, till the other objects of the charity have been fully attended to but, of course,
the trustees would not think of doing so, until all the objects specified by Dr Hut-
ton had been duly cared for.


