
                             ARNGASK.                           891

oats, turnips, and potatoes, barley, grass-seeds cut in bay, follow-
ed by either one or two years' pasture. On those farms where the
soil is of a more varied description, a rotation of eight or nine
years is in many cases adopted, taking two successive crops of
oats after three or four years' pasture. Turnip husbandry now
prevails to ` considerable extent, and appears to be admirably suit-
ed to a great part of the arable land. The cultivation of this va-
luable root has been, within the last few years, greatly extended,
chiefly in consequence of the introduction of the use of bone ma-
nure, and the increased fertility of the soil occasioned by the tur-
nip crop being eat off by sheep.
   Produce.-The average value of the raw produce annually rais-
ed in the parish, as nearly as it can be ascertained, is as follows

<TABLE>

   White crop, including wheat, oats, and barley,                   L. 6432   0  0
   Green crop, including pease, potatoes, and turnips,                 3200   0  0
   Hay, both meadow and cultivated,                                     720   0  0
   Pasture of all kinds,                                               1824   0  0
                                                                   ________________
   Total annual value of raw producer                               L.12,176  0  0

   Mills, &c.-There are 4 mills for grinding corn, I saw-mill,
and 22 thrashiting-mills. Of the latter, twenty are moved by horses,
one by steam, and another by water. There are about 62 ploughs
regularly employed upon the different farms; and, besides these,
four or five are occasionally used by persons occupying small pen-
dicler, and frequently acting in thq capacity of carters. There
are only 8 hand-looms, weaving being carried on to a small ex-
tent. In four shops, groceries are sold. And, besides some journey
men and apprentices, there are 4 masons, 7 carpenters, 3 smiths,
4 tailors, 3 shoemakers, and 1 plasterer.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Means of Communication.-The parish enjoys ample means of
communication. It is traversed for upwards of three miles by the
Great North Road from Edinburgh to Aberdeen, on which four
public coaches, including the mail, regularly travel to the north
and to the south. The Statute Labour roads are generally well
kept, and are nearly ten miles in extent. The stone bridges,
consisting each of a single arch, are in a proper state of repair.
Four of these are across the Farg, six are over some of its tribu-
taries, and one is upon a small stream which flows south from
Damhead, and unites with the Eden at Burnside.
   Villages.-There are two small villages in the parish, Duucri-
vie and Damhead. The former is pleasantly situated on rising


