
                        KELTON.                        169

on the first Monday of every month. The steward circuit courts
under the late Small Debt Act, are held on the second Wednes-
days of January and April, and the first Wednesdays of Jtly and
October. There is a modern town-house, with a tower and
clock, which were presented to the burgh by Sir W. Douglas.
The shops are remarkably elegant and well furnished, so as to
awaken the surprise of strangers, who are not aware of the fact
that Castle Douglas is the great mart, not only of the parish of
Kelton but of the whole stewartry.
        Banks.-Three of the most respectable banks in Scotland have
branches in Castle Douglas; the British Linen Company, esta-
blished in 1821; the National Bank, established in 1826; and
the Bank of Scotland, established in 1840. All the three insti-
tutions do business to a considerable extent, and afford great en-
couragement to industry and commerce.
        Post-Office.-The post-office of Castle Douglas is perhaps one
of the most important in the south of Scotland, whether we con-
sider the consequence of the town itself, or the extent of country,
and number of villages around it and subject to its delivery.
There are no less than fourteen post-offices under Castle Douglas,
viz. sub-office, New Galloway; penny post-offices, Auchencairn,
Kirkpatrick, Dalry, Laurieston, Crocketford, Dalbeattie, Palnac-
kie, Parton, Rhonehouse; receiving-houses, Gelston, Crossli-
chael, Haugh of Urr, and Glenlochar,-to all of which places
there are daily runners. Castle Douglas, in regard to the num-
ber of its sub-offices, &c. is second to Glasgow alone throughout
Scotland. The revenue, prior to the establishnent of the penny
postage, exceeded L.1100; but what it yields now cannot be ex-
actly ascertained from the stamps being sold both at the post and
stamp-offices.
        Means of Communication.-1. The mail from Dumfries bring-
ing dispatches from all England and Scotland, arrives at Castle
Douglas daily at 10 o'clock P. M. Another mail from Portpa-
trick with the Irish letters, arrives at 3 O'clock A. M. 2. There
are also two coaches every lawful day to and from Dumfries and
Kirkcudbright, one of which brings a second mail from England and
the whole of Scotland except Edinburgh and its neigbourhood, at
one o'clock P. M. 3. Carriers go twice a week to Dumfries, once
to Edinburgh, once to Glasgow, and thrice to kirkcudbright and
Gatehouse.
        Roads.-The great military road from London to Portpatrick


