
     Statistical Account

the N. by the Tay; on the N. E. and E. by Dunbog and
Flisk; on the S. E. by Monimail; on the S. W. by Col-
lessie.  The E. part of the parish is bounded on the W.
N. W. and N. by the Flisk; on the N E., E. and S. E.
by Criech; and on the S. and S. W. by Dunbog.  The
W. part is bounded on the E. by Newburg; on the N.
by Newburgh and Abernethy; on the W. and S. by A-
bernethy.  Dunbog on the E. and Newburgh on the W.
lying thus in the bosom of Abdie, favour the tradition of
their forming, at some distant period, parts of that pa-
rish.  No traces, however, of the disjunction of Dunbog
can now discovered; but the curious article, at the
bottom of the page, confirms the tradition respecting
Newburgh*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Apud Holyroodhouse, 3tio. die mensis Februaril 1632 years.  Anent
the supplication presented to the commissioners for the surrender of teinds,
for Mr. David Orme, minister a Newburgbh, making mention, that where
the kirks of Ebdie and Newburgh have been separat these manie year by-
past, by act of synodal assemblie, special consent of the patron, gentlemen
of the parochin, and all others parties having interes for the time, for ma-
nie grave and weighty reasons contained in the foresaid act, and likewise,
seeing his majestie has presented the supplicant to the kirk of Newburgh,
where he presently serves the cure, by virtue of his Heine's presentation
and the Bishop of St. Androis admission, and collation thereupon; and
seeing the said commission are now settling an maintenance and provision
for the kirk of Ebdie; humbly desiring therefor the saids commissioners
to satisfy the said seperation, like as at mair length is conteined in the
supplication : quhilk being read, heard and considered by the commission-
ers; and they having likewise heard Mr.Andrew Murray minister at Ebdie,
and the said suppliant, who were personally present; hereupon, and being
well advysit, with all that was proposed and allegit by them heiranent,
the Lords, and others of the commission, for the surrender and teinds, with
consent of the saids two ministers, and heritors present, has ratified, and
he the tenor heiros, ratifies the act above written; whereby the said kirk of
Newburgh is separat from the kirk of Ebdie; and declares the same to be
an separat kirk be itself in all time coming; without prejudice always to
the said Mr.Andrew Murray of his right of patronage of the said kirk, as 
records of law


