
152                        ARGYLESHIRE.

four horses, with a man at their heads walking backwards, after
the ancient fashion, might be seen in the plough.  Now, carts are
not uncommon, several good iron ploughs are in	use, additional
manure is made, and crops are more abundant, With all their
disadvantages, the small tenants have hitherto paid to the full as
high rents as the large farmers,-the money being procured by
the joint exertions of the different members of their families.
   On the lands farmed by the proprietors, or let to large tenants
or tacksmen, the system of management, both as respects tillage
and stock, is far better; in some cases, as good as, in any part of
Scotland.  With some exceptions, the farm-buildings and enclo-
sures are defective, those of the small tenants miserable.  Leases
run from seven to nineteen years.
   The principal improvements have of late years taken place on
the estate of Ardnamurchan and Sunart; not to mention two Go-
vernment churches which have been built on this property, to
Which the proprietor has given glebes of six acres each ; also
three Assembly schools, to which he has given crofts, and on the
accommodations of which he has expended L.370,-a good deal
has been done in reclaiming waste land, building, enclosing, and
other agricultural improvements.  At Drimantarran on this pro-
perty, Mr M'Donald, the late enterprising tenant (who contributed
most of the facts under this head, and the estimate to be given of
the gross returns of the parish,) has brought into cultivation and
enclosed 25 to 30 acres of moss, varying from three to nine feet
depth.  The land was drained, trenched, and limed, at L.13, 5s.
per English acre, manured with sea-ware, and fenced at an ex-
pense not included in the above sum; and being planted with po-
tatoes, yielded twenty returns.  Towards this the proprietor con-
tributed L.5 per acre, and half the expense of the stone fences
Two piers were, a few years ago, erected by the British Herring
Fishery Society, one-third of the expense being contributed by
Sir James Milles Riddell, and the whole of an excellent road
through the moss of Kintra, by which both are connected.  One
of the piers is of some use.  The road, already beneficial, bids
fair to be still more so to the property.  The piers being situated
on the north and south shores of a neck separating Loch Sunart
and the bay of Kintra, it was fancied that, as the point of Ardna-
murchan would be avoided, the intercourse betwixt the
northern isles and the south would be drawn to this line of com-
munication.   About thirty English acres of moss have been brought


