
530                         FIFESHIRE.

lars who attend at this parish school is 150. The fees may amount
to L. 65 par annum.
   In October 1836, the scholars entered the new schoolhouse,
which had been built by the heritors for their additional accommo-
dation, and which would easily contain 200 scholars and upwards.
It is a very handsome building, and far surpasses the common
structure of school-houses. The exterior is elegantly finished,
and the interior is in harmony with the outward appearance. This
attention to the comfort and health of the young is an act of true
mercy, for which the parents cannot be too thankful. The heri-
tors propose to build a dwelling-house for the teacher.
    One of the other schools is held in the village of Craigrothie.
A school and scbool house were built by subscription in 1806;
and ground was given by the proprietor of Craigrotbie, who still
contributes to thb support of the teacher. Excepting this contri-
bution, the fees are the only support of this teacher. From 60 to
70 scholars attend him. There is a Sunday evening school, which
is attached to this school, as well as to the parochial one, and each
of them have got libraries for the rise of those who attend. Their
is also another Sunday school in Ceres, which possesses a library
for the use of the young. About 50 or 60 girls attend one of the
female schools, which is kept in the village of Ceres.
   Societies.-In 1795, a Friendly Society was established in the
village of Ceres. It now consists of 200 members, and it possesses
a capital of L.600, which is laid out on heritable security at 5
per cent. The sum of 4s. 6d. is annually contributed by each of
the members, and this small contribution entitles them to receive
4s. a week, if for a fime they should be confined to bed or 2s. if
they are merely unable to work. To those who are superannuated,
and have no hope of returning to work, 1s. 6d. a week is given.
This society has been the means of enabling many to enjoy vari-
ous comforts during sickness. In 1765, a branch of the Grand
Mason Lodge of Scotland was established in Ceres. Its members
are numerous, and 60 of them have joined themselves into a
Friendly Society. They contribute 6s annually, and during that
time of Sickness they receive 3s. 6d. a week. There is also in
Craigrothie a Friendly Society, which was formed in 1825. The
number of its, members at present is 60. The object of this So-
ciety is to given aid to menmbers when  in sickness, and to widows,
when the funds can afford. The funds are at present in so flou-
ishing a state, that the society gives 15s, a year to widows.




