			RUTHWELL.                         239

have been gradually progressive, and at lasl settlement in May
1833, amounted to the sum of L.3143, 2s. 2d. giving an average
yearly increase since the commencement of somewhat more than
L. 146. The average amount invested yearly is L. 600; with-
drawn yearly, L. 400.
	Banks for savings have now got so firm a footing in the united
kingdom, and have extended themselves so rapidly to other coun-
tries, that it seems superfluous in this place to detail their advan-
tages. But it is to be feared that these institutions have in many
instances operated to the injury of Friendly societies--kindred
establishments which every person acquainted with the circum-
stances and wants of the lower orders must regard as useful aux-
iliaries, and not as rivals. The latter are in truth the only protection
to individuals belonging to the labouring class of the community,
in the event of their being overtaken by sudden illness, or disability,
before they could have made any considerable accumulation in
a savings bank.
	Associations, &c.--Two societies for religious purposes, one male
and the other female, have, for a number of years, subsisted in the pa-
rish; but the unhappy disputes which originated from the miscon-
duct of the managers of the British and Foreign Bible Society have
cooled the ardour of many, and reduced both societies to little more
than a mere nominal existence. The annual average amount of
their joint contributions may perhaps have been from L.8 to L.I0.

not have been tried to greater advantage than in the parish of Ruthwell, One of these dis-
couragements arose fromn want of resident heritors, who might countenance the under-
taking with their approbation, and support it with their purse and influence. But there
was as till more formidable difficulty to encounter. Notwithstanding by far the greater
part of the inhabitants are poor villagers, or cottagers, without manufactures, or any
other means of subsistence, than such as are usually to be found in a remote country
parish, there were a great majority of the adults (no fewer than 300 individuals, out
ofa population of I 100) already connected with friendly societies, within the bounds of
the parish. It was well known that by far the greater part of these individuals were
obliged to strain every nerve for a bare subsistence, and, so far from being able to lay
up any additional savings, found at times extreme difficulty in fulfilling their engage-
ments to the established societies. As these institutions were under the immediate
superintendence of the author, he was not ignorant of the facts stated; Put they did
not seem to him to constitute an objection sufficiently strong to deter him from mak-
ing a trial of the projected scheme. He knew from experience that he bad to deal
with a sober, virtuous, and well-informed population, and, on this single favourable
circumstance, he founded the conviction, that his attempt would not prove altogether
abortive. He was not disappointed, the scheme was drawn up and put into execu-
tion, with the advice and co-operation of some of the most respectable inhabitants of
the parish; and in the period of four years and a-half, the funds of the institution
have risen to upwards of L. 1160.


