
112                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

is stated generally to have preached extempore, having, by diligent
practice, acquired the power of speaking with great fluency and
correctness.  Arguing, however, from the character of his written
productions, which are in general rough and careless in point of
composition, his style of speaking was probably never characte-
rized by eloquence. He left Salton, as appears from the kirk-ses-
sion records, on the 18th November 1669, having been called to
fill the chair of Theology in the University of Glasgow, the duties
of which he discharged with approved fidelity.
   When elevated to a more eminent station in the church, he was
not unmindful of the interests of that parish which had witnesses
his early labours. He bequeathed in trust to the Lairds of Salton and
Herdmanston, and to the minister for the time, the sum of 20,000
merks, to be applied in different sums as follows: for the educa-
tion and clothing of thirty children "of the poorer sort;" for the
erection of a new school-house, and affording a perpetual augmen-
tation of the schoolmaster's salary; for the increase of a library
which had already begun to be formed "for the minister's house
and use;" and the remainder for relieving the wants of the neces-
sitous poor. * The particulars connected with the present appli-
cation of this fund are stated below. + By this generous bequest

<FOOTNOTE> The language in which, in the codicil containing this bequest, the Bishop ex-
presses himself, affords a pleasing evidence that the lofty elevation which he had then
attained had not taught him to forget the humble scene of his "first love."-"This
course," he adds, after having prescribed the particulars of the destination "I order
to be continued for ever, as an expression of my kind gratitude to that parish who
had the first fruits of my labours, and among whom I had all possible kindness and
encouragement."
     The present value of the bishop's bequest is L. 2000 Sterling, which being in-
vested on heritable security at four per cent., yields annually the sum of L. 80. This
sum the trustees allot as follows:

<TABLE>
   For the clothing of the thirty children, about,                    L. 35    0    0
   Allowed to the schoolmasters for their education,                     26    0    0
   Books, stationery, &c. and other incidental expenses of education,     4    0    0
   For the necessitous poor according to the bequest,                    10    0    0
   For the increase of the manse library,                                 5    0    0
                                                                      _______________
                                                                      L. 80    0    0

   As the expense of clothing has been found in general to exceed the above amount,
its issue has occasionally been suspended for a year, and the surplus, where any exist-
ed, applied to the department of education; and as it is believed, that the interest
of the bequest will in future be required to be reduced to 3 1/2 per cent. thus mak-
ing the annual proceeds only L. 70, the above arrangement will probably become
permanent and the children be clothed only every alternate year. In order to
qualify for admission on the fund, the parents of the children who are applicants
must have resided far not less than two years in the parish, According to the pro-
visions of the will, the lairds of Salton and Herdmanston and the minister of the pa-
rish for the time, nominate. Every child enjoys the benefits of the fund for four years.
A list of their attendance at school and church is accurately kept, and if any great ir-
regularity in these respects, without sufficient cause, has taken place, the defaulter is
either struck off the list, or, as a mitigated punishment, deprived of clothing in future.



