
     of Alloa.

   Climate, Diseases and Longevity.-Although the town of
Alloa lies low, it is allowed to be pretty healthy.  The epide-
mical diseases of fevers, small pox, etc. carry off fewer than
in the neighbouring parishes, Agnes are now fearcely ever
heard of.  Its situation by the side of a great river, where the
regular flowing of the tide is attended with a strong current,
serves to purge away the damps, and to give a freshness and
purity to the air.  Though it is not remarkable for the lon-

<FOOTNOTE>

people imagine that there are no laws extant concerning that part of the police.
The fact is, that they are very similar to those of England (vide Dr. M'FARLAN'S
Inquiries concerning the Poor), and differ only in a few points, such as an inat-
tentive reader may conclude are of no great consequence; and yet those little
differences have probably prevented the burden, from becoming as heavy, in those
parts of Scotland, where the poor's laws are enforced, as they are in England.
The kirk-sessions, being a corporate body, are joined with the heritors, as the
administrators of the poor's funds.  The minister and treasurer generally know
the circumstances, and character, of every individual that applies to them; and, by
constant attention, become perfect mailers of the business, and pride themselves
on executing their trust most faithfully.  Whereas in England, the church war-
dens, and overseers of the poor, to whom this trust is committed, are chosen
annually; so that, by the time they have learned the business, they are removed;
and whatever good regulations they may have made, their successors, through
ignorance, or design, either alter or neglect them.  Nor can it be supposed,
that any annual office, which, though very troublesome and disagreeable, is not
looked on in the most favourable light, will be attended to with diligence by
any individual, if he sees little chance of his best intentions being of any service;
but, it is more than probable, he will endeavour to pass it over, with as little
trouble or vexation as possible.  And the power of assessment lies entirely in the
church wardens and overseers*; as it is no longer considered, that the concurrence
of the inhabitants, for making a rate, is at all necessary.  Though the law requires
that the overseers, etc. should have the consent of two justices, it has become a
mere matter of form; +for, when justices have refused their consent, the Court
of King's Bench has compelled them to allow the rate.  But in Scotland, the
heritors must meet with the kirk-session, before any assessment cars be laid on
the parish; and this obliges them (especially as they must pay one half of the
assessment), to be attentive to the management of the poor's funds.

*Vide Burn's Justice, Edit. 15th, Vol. III. page 574. +Ditto, page 535.


