
    			NEW KILPATRICK.			59

ments. Printers earn from 16s. to 30s., and cotton-spinners about
20s. a-week. To common observation it would appear that cot-
ton-spinning is not favourable to health, the workers having ge-
nerally a sallow and delicate look. The other employments seem
perfectly healthy. Factory-work, by collecting a multitude of per-
sons of both sexes together, is injurious to morals ; and the demand
for the labour of children, which, though now checked at the cot-
ton-factory, continues at the printfields, threatens to increase the
evil. It is an evil, however,- which the masters of such works have
it much in their power to remedy or prevent, by making a careful
selection of workers, by dismissing bad characters from their em-
ployment, by providing for the education of the children, and by
encouraging attendance on religious ordinances.

		V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.--The nearest market-town is Glasgow, which is about
seven imperial miles distant from the centre of the parish, The
only village of any consideration is Milngavie, in which there are
good shops for butcher-meat, groceries, and various other wares. A
fair for milch-cows is held at New Kirk, (by whichname the few
houses near the church are usually called) on the 1st of May,
O. S. which was formerly well frequented; but is now dwindled
away into insignificance.
   Means of Communication.-The means of communication are
abundant. We have a penny-post to and from Glasgow every
lawful day, with two post-offices, one at Milngavie, and the other
at New Kirk. The high-ways from Glasgow to Balfron and Dry-
men pass through the parish ; making, together with part of the
road to Dumbarton, about 11 imperial miles of turnpike-road with-
in its boundaries. We have three stage coaches travelling on these
roads; one from Milngavie; all one from Balfron, and one from
Drymen, three times a-week; all of them to Glasgow. The Forth
and Clyde Canal passes throuoh the parish, nearly parallel with
and not far from its southern border. The principal local pur-
pose for which it is used is the conveyance of coals from the Tem-
ple coal-work, and of stones from Garsecube quarry. The farmers
near it sometimes receive boat-loads of dung from Greenock ; but
the heavy duties render it fully as dear as that brought by carts
from Glasgow.
   Bridges.--Our principal bridges are over the Kelvin, connect-
ing this parish with Cadder and the Barony. There are three of,
these, of three arches each, and one of two arches; besides a


