
808                        PERTHSHIRE.

records or minutes of discipline begin at the date of April 27th,
1657. In all probability two volumes of these records are lost,
one,embracing the occurrences of some years previous to 1594,
and the other commencing with that date.  The volumes which
are extant have been kept with great accuracy and minuteness,
except a few chasms during the period of the Revolution in 1688,
the Rebellions in 1715 and 1745, and for more than a year about
1777 (through the culpable negligence of thd session-clerk, for
which he was dismissed fiom his office,) they are nearly entire,
and exhibit an interesting and curious account of the fidelitv and
benevolence of the session, and the state of education and manners
among the population for nearly two centuries. *
  The register of deaths, or, as it is entitled, "the Dames of the
defunct persons," begins on December 1st 1598, and ends in Oc-
tober 1615, after which there is merely a record of mortcloths.
The register of proclamations of marriages dates from February
1598, but a few blanks occur in it as well as in the register of
baptisms. The register of collections for the poor, entitled " dis-
tributions to the misterfull within ye parochin of Dunbarney," be-
gins in November 1600.  The poor were at that date carefully
distributed into three classes.
    Antiquities.-Reference has been already made to the cbapel
of Monecreiffe, as constituting an appendage to the church of Dun-

<FOOTNOTE>The following entries occur in the session records. The first refers to a period
during which the plague committed great ravages in this district. " September 25th
1608, Thair is intemission of 3 Sundays, and yat in respect of ye plague."-- "The
town of Perth being taken by Mar's rebel army, September 16th 1715, no sermon
was here till February 2th 1716." Such was the disturbed and agitated state of this
part of the country at that period, that for several months no public worship was Per-
formed in the parish church of Dunbarny. This may be easily understood by the
following statement.  When the Earl of Mar projected the scheme of his insurrection
in favour of the Pretender, he found the disposition of the Highlanders most favour-
able for his enterprise.  After placing himself at the head of a formidable body (of
which the Highlanders composed the most effective portion) he fixed his head quar-
ters at Perth.  After the battle of Sheriffmuir, the clans perceiving that they had
gained no advantage, uttered murmurs of discontent, many of them returned home,
and some became mutinous, while the royal army received accessions by reinforce-
ments from England. During this interval, the vicinity of Perth was in a state of
turbulence from the swarms of Highlanders passing by the Bridge of Earn, some of
whom committed acts of violence in the church and parish school house. In the
session records. it is stated, that "the windows and seats of the parish school were
burnt during the Rebellion, and ordered to be repaired by the kirk-session, October
the 8th 1716." In December, the Pretender landed incognito at Peterhead.  Being
soon known, he was attended by Mar and Marshall, and, after being proclaimed in
all the towns through which he passed, arrived at Scoon on the 7th of June.
after this, the intelligence that the Duke of Argyle was in full march to attack him,
made him Aretreat northwards with the utmost precipitation.  When be arrived at
Montrose, he set sail with some of his followers for France.  The Bridge of Earn,
from being in the line of the great northern road, shared in the troubles of that dis-
tract  period.


