
240                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

Besides this, there is on the same property, a large manufactory
of worsted, wherein there are about 67 persons employed.
   There are also a brewery of considerable extent, and two
mills for the manufacture of snuff.  There are no fewer than
five meal-mills, and two flour-mills, some of which manufacture
grain to a great extent, for the supply of Aberdeen and the
adjoining country.  On other properties in the parish there are
three other meal-mills, two of which carry on a very extensive
trade.  It may be said, therefore, of Lord and Lady James Hay's
property in the east end of the parish, that it is of a very superior
value, and that there are few places where such numerous and
extensive manufactories are carried on, within such a limited space.
   These manufactories and stone quarries give to this part of the
parish a bustling and very interesting appearance.
   In this parish, there are very few of what may be called large
farms. There are 35 heritors and feuars, and most of the feuars
occupy their respective grounds.
   The principal occupation of the parishioners, apart from the
quarries and manufactories, is the dairy.  In consequence of the
short distance from Aberdeen, and the large village of Woodside
in the vicinity, they pay more attention to this than to the rearing
of young cattle, and they turn it to very great account.
   Rent.-The lands, in some cases, are pretty high rented,-
some averaging L.3 and upwards per Scotch acre; but the com-
mon rate of rent may be stated at from L.1, 10s. to L.2.
   In this parish, there is still a great extent of barren uncultivated
ground; but, of late years, a very great change has been effected.
Improvements are going on; and are encouraged by the nearness
of the markets, and the plentiful supply of all kinds of manure.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The present church was built by the heri-
tors of the parish in 1830, is centrically situate, large, and com-
modious; superior to any country church in the county, and perhaps
in the north; and is capable, it is supposed, of holding all the pa-
rishioners who are capable of assembling at one time.
   The minister's stipend arises from the rents of the mortified
lands, which are let to tenants on leases of nineteen years endur-
ance, but it is not nearly so large as might be expected, as a great
part of the ground is barren, and not susceptible of improvement,
and as the tenants, till the present incumbent's admission, were
under no restrictions as to farming, and not obliged to make any


