
     of Callander.

credible velocity and noise into the lake, and spread their
froth upon its surface.  On one side, the water eagle fits in
majesty, undisturbed, on his well known rock, in sight of his
nest on the face of Ben-venu; the heron stalks among the
reeds in search of his prey; and the sportive ducks gambol on
the waters, or dive below:  On the other, the wild goats climb,
where they have scarce ground for the soles of their feet;
and the wild fowls, perched on trees, or on the pinnacle of a
rock, look down with composed defiance at man*.  In a word,
both by land and water, there are so many turnings and wind-
ings, so many heights and hollows, so many glens, and capes,
and bays, that one cannot advance 20 yards without having
his prospect changed, by the continual appearance of new ob-
jects, while others are constantly retiring out of sight.  This
scene is closed by a west view of the lake, for several miles,
having its sides lined with alternate clumps of wood and ara-
ble fields, and the smoke rising in spiral columns through the
air, from villages which are concealed by the intervening
woods; and the prospect is bounded by the towering Alps of
Arrochar, which are chequered with snow, or hide their heads
in the clouds.  The Hon. Mrs. DRUMMOND of PERTH has
erected booths of wicker work, in the most convenient places,
for the accommodation of strangers, who visit this wild and
picturesque landscape; and the tenants of the next farm are
very ready to show the beauties of the place to travellers.

     4 D 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*In one of the defiles of the Trosachs, two or three of the natives met a band
of Cromwell's soldiers, and forced them to return, after leaving one of their
comrades dead on the spot, whose grave marks the scene of action, and gives
name to the pass.  In one or other of the chasms of this singular place, there
lived, for many years, a distiller of smuggled spirits, who eluded the most dili-
gent search of the officers of the revenue, although they knew perfectly he was,
there; because a guide could not be bubed to discover his retreat.


