
174                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

sible, by the conversion of the statute labour money, to keep them
in repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, built in 1795, for 406 sitters,
and still in good repair, is by no means conveniently situated,
standing in the north-west part of the parish, a mile and a half from
the centre. This is also the most thinly populated quarter, and
about three miles distant from some of the parishioners. The
living is 63 bolls of oat-meal, L.33 in money, the Government
bounty,-a manse, built in 1803, substantial and in good repair,
11 acres pf glebe, and 7 1/2 of these arable. The present incumbent,
the Rev. John Pollock, was admitted in 1838. His predecessors
were, the Rev. H. Moncreiff, admitted 1836; Rev. J. McEwen,
1804; Rev. Dr Cooper, admitted 1783; the Rev. Messrs Tay-
lor, Carrick, Colquhoun, and Wallace, who was admitted at the
Revolution, 1688. 72 families, 240 persons of all ages; 174
Communicants, belong to the Established Church; 39 families to
Dissenters. There are 3 Episcopalians, 8 Catholics, and 30 fa-
milies, that go to no place of worship.
   Education.-The parish schoolmaster has the legal accom-
modation, and the maximum salary. The school is sufficiently
commodious, and within reach of the whole parish, being a mile
nearer the centre than the church; but the ill repair and danger-
ous state of some of the roads, render it unavailable to many.
Reading, writing, and a little arithmetic, constitute the whole of
the education of the people. Most of the children get little time
even for these, and there is no great desire for more. The ave-
rage number of scholars is 50.
   The parish contributed L.50 to the Lunatic Asylum in 1813,
and previously to the Infirmary of Glasgow, to which they have
the common right. The Baidernock Humane Friendly Society
was instituted in 1783; approved of by an extraordinary general
meeting, March 28, 1809; confirmed according to Act of Par-
liament, and has a stock of L.500. Late decisions, finding mem-
bers liable for life, and compelling some, who bad withdrawn, to
pay up accounts, while they have retained many members contrary
to their own inclination, have induced others to keep back; and
entrance to the society is now rare. This society has been a bless-
ing to many, and, were it encouraged, would continue to be much
more so than it is.
   Poor.-The poor's roll has, for some time, been on the in-
crease. The average number of paupers, for the last, three years

                           4


