
188                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of the parish--but it can scarcely be considered from its situation
as having any effect in withdrawing the people of this parish from
the Established Church. There is another Dissenting meeting-
house in the village of Gore Bridge belonging to the parish of
Temple, to which most of the Dissenters in the parish are attach-
ed. But there has all along been a conciliatory spirit on the part
of Churchmen and Dissenters, in this part of the country, to each
other--and the Established clergyman has always had as free an
access into the houses of the Dissenters as into those of his own
communion. It is greatly to be desired that this kindly and truly
Christian spirit may long be maintained.
   The people connected with the Established Church are in ge-
neral regular attendants on divine worship, and most exemplary in
their demeanour, both during divine service, and whenever, in
their own houses, any of the offices of religion are performed.
   Education.--Besides the parochial school there are at present
two other private schools, both of which, however, are at present
but poorly attended. The average numbers in the parochial school
are about 80. The parochial teacher has the maximum salary of
L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2 d. He has the legal accommodations in other respects
-and draws the usual fees as session-clerk, heritors clerk, &c.
There is a small mortification of L. 3, 17s. for the benefit of the
teacher of the private school in Newlandrigg. This sum was mor-
tified by a person of the name of Sir James M'Lurg.
   The branches taught at all the schools are the usual elementary
branches-viz. reading, writing, arithmetic, &c.
   The present minister has been in the habit for many years of vi-
siting all the schools once every month. He then prepares the
scholars for undergoing an examination on the first Sabbath of
every month in the parish church--and on the Monday after the
dispensation of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, an account is
taken of all that has been done during the preceding months of the
year-and prizes are distributed. This plan has had excellent
effects, both in increasing the religious information of the scholars,
and in promoting their attention to their daily and more secular
studies. The teachers have all co-operated zealously with the
minister in the prosecution of this plan, and it has been universally
acceptable to the parents and friends of the young.
   Literature.-There is a library in the neighbouring village of
Gore Bridge, which has a good and extensive assortment of books;
and has been productive of many good effects. It owes its origin to


