
				BELLIE.                            115                                                 

       tifications, churchyard dues, &c. making the receipts in all about
       L. 45 yearly ; out of which, besides the regular allowance to those
       on the roll, extra supplies are given in cases of sickness, funeral
       expenses are paid, &a. also the session-clerk, precentor, and church
       officer; so that there is but a small sum reserved in hand; and
       probably so much the better,-for it seems to be generally acknowledged
       that, wherever a large fund is accumulated, the claimants
       increase in number.
          Gray's Hospital at Elgin, to which the poor of all the parishes
       within the county have access, on presenting the certificate of their
       parish minister, is of incalculable benefit; and the lunatic asylum,
       lately attached to it, capable of receiving ten patients at a
       time, is likely to be found a valuable addition for the relief of the
       parishes of this county.

          October 1835.


                              PARISH OF BELLIE.

                 PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                   THE REV.  DAM DEWAR, MINISTER. *


                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
          Name.-The name has been traced by some to the Gaelic
       Bellaidth, signifying broom; and by others to Beul-aith, signifying
       the mouth of theford.
          Boundaries, Extent, &c.-The parish is of an oblong quadrangular
       figure, but narrower at the northern than at the opposite extreme.
       Its length, from north to south varies from 5 to 6 miles.
       Its greatest breadth is 4 miles; its mean breadth 3; and its superficial
       contents in square miles, very nearly 19.  The Spey is
       the boundary on the west; the Moray Frith on the north; Rathven
       on the east; Reith and Boharm on the south.
         Meteorology.-The following meteorological table, embracing a
       period of ten successive years, is extracted from a register carefully
       kept by an eminent naturalist, vho long resided at Gordon
       Castle.

       <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent of the parish, the Rev. William Rannie.


