

                        CUMBERNAULD.                             145

only fifteen, twenty, twelve, &c. persons, and one, two, or no elders
were present, and the reason assigned is "that ane great conven-
ticle" was held either within the parish or neighbourhood.
   It is noticeable, that, after the granting of the third indulgence,
Mr Muschett, 14th August 1687, intimates from the pulpit, "that
he was willing to give one of the dyets to Mr Robb, the Presby-
terian minister, that the offering for the poor might be preserved,
and for several other reasons mentioned by the minister; and
that he would write to Mr Robb thereanent betwixt and the
next Sabbath, to see if he would accept of the said offer."
This offer, it would seem, that Mr Robb did not think proper
to accept; for on 25th September, same year, "the whilk day the
people are exhorted to be regular and orderly; albeit Mr Robb is
come so neeire as to keep ane meeting in the Newtoune." This
exhortation, like the others, was disregarded": the former complaints
are still made, "That no elders were present in the church, no
offerings were gathered, that no session was kept, and that 300 or
360 heads of families, besides women and children, were absent
fromk the church." On 15th July 1688, the twelve persons for-
merly mentioned are again denounced as fugitives; and the said
"day intimation was maid, that the meeting-house preacher is ane
rebell, and not pardoned; excommunicate and not relaxed; and
ane slanderer and leisingmaker, alienating the hearts of his Ma-
jesties subjects, by not keeping the three late thanksgiving."
   Some persons belonging to the parish were suspected of being
concerned in the rescue of Alexander Smith at Inchbelly Bridge,
in June 1683, when a soldier was killed; for in the record of date
28th October 1688, "Intimation is maid not to harbour or resett
John Russell of Carrcraig, who is forfeited; John Bulloch, acces-
sorie to the murder at Inchbellie Bridge, and James Brownlee and
Thomas Smellie, his associates; who are likewise suspected to
have accession to the same murder; and John Bulloch having up-
braided the minister will ill-language, and carrying armes on Sa-
turday last."
   On the same day, the minister warns the people not to hear Mr
Michael Robb, the meeting-house preacher, in regard of his dis-
loyaltie, in not praying for the Queen, Prince and Royal Family,
and in regard of his preaching erroneous doctrine."
   In those unsettled times, the minister's person, house, and family,
were assailed by some disorderly persons; for December 30th,
Sunday after Christmas day, intimation is given, "That, notwith-
   DUMBARTON.                             K




