
                                ALVIE.                             95
schools, with the exception of Latin, book-keeping and geography,
and with the addition of Gaelic. The salary of the parochial
schoolmaster is L. 30, exclusive of two guineas in lieu of a garden.
The school fees may be estimated at L. 20 per annum; and the
accommodation is liberal. The salary of the teacher of the As-
sembly's school is L. 20, and the school fees may amount to about
L. 10 per annum. It was estimated ip 1833, that there were in
the parish, upwards of six years of age unable t o read, 342 per-
sons; and betwixt six and fifteen years of age, 26.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average Dumber of poor on
the parish roll is from 20 to 24. The annual amount of contribu
tion for their relief is from L. 12 to L. 15 per annum, arising from
collections in the church and penalties exacted from delinquents ;
and this small sum is distributed among them only once a year.
The poor in general depend, for the most part, on their own in-
dustry, and the assistance of their nearest relations. The-v are very
reluctant, till compelled by dire necessity, to make application for
parochial aid. To receive assistance from the parish fund is con-
sidered degrading, and consequently is the last resource of the
helpless and indigent.
   Fuel.-Peats and wood are the fuel commonly used in the parish.
Both these kinds of fuel are at so great a distance, and procured
at so enormous an expense, that coals carried from Inverness to a
distance of forty miles, are considered, by those who understand the
management of them, cheaper fuel than either of these kinds.

                VI.-MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the time of the former Statistical Account, various
changes have taken place in the state of the country, the mode
of cultivation, the value of land and farm produce; and in the
manners, character, and circumstances of the people. In re-
gard to the state of the country and the mode of cultivation, it
may be observed, that a spirit of improvement has been lately ex-
cited among the tenants in general, which, if suitably encouraged
by their landlords, will, in the course of some time, greatly ame-
librate their condition. Farining operations are at present con-
ducted with more taste and better skill than they formerly were.
Turnip and grass husbandry has of late years been carried on
by tenants even of -,mall holdings. Here and there pieces of waste
ground, which, in the state of nature, were of little or no value,
have been brought into culture by treiicbing and liming, &e. and
rendered productive of both grass and corn. In consequence
of these improvements, the parish, even in its present state, pro-


