
 316                          PERTHSHIRE.

   The sandstone or freestone appears in strata dipping northwards
at an angle of 70\d1, with till sand interposed between the strata.
   The trap rock, however, is the one which will be most interest-
ing to the geologist, and that not so much in its nature as in its
history. At short intervals, it rises in ridges, and is again broken
down, and thus forming a range, stretches not only across the parish,
but across the island, from sea to sea.  Below the loch of Drum-
mond, as also on the side of the loch, it rises about 50 feet, and
in the former place is perpendicular in its front, and as smooth as
if cut with a chisel or hammer. From these two great rocks, the
places in the neighbourhood may have received the name of Con-
craig.   
   Several species of fossil remains have, at different periods, been
found in our peat mosses and marl-pits, such as the heads of oxen
of uncommon size, and horns of the elk and forest deer; so that
we have proof that certain species of animals, which once frequent-
ed this part of the country, are now there extinct.
   Soil.-Along the sides of the Earn and the Allan, the haughs
are for the most part a light loam, on beds of sand and gravel,
which, with an admixture of lime and marl, produce very luxuriant
crops. Between the middle or separation ridge of the parish, and
the haugh ground, the soil may be considered to consist of three
kinds; one light, with a free bottom, which does not retain water;
this is next to the haugh ground, and is excellent for producing
grass; the next kind is a strong sandy soil, with a mixture of
gravel, but with so much of a till bottom, and so cohesive in its
nature, as not to admit the water to pass through it; and the other
is so poor and moorish, as only to send up heath and whins. How-
ever, almost to the hill top, from the banks of the rivers, the ground
is found to be made productive by cleaning, by draining, and by
manuring; and so every year, we see a little field made out, farther
up the hill. The low grounds especially are very productive when
limed, and drained, and manured.  Lime to warm and quicken the
soil is much required; but that advantage, as yet, is almost denied
us, for we have no lime nearer than Loch Earn or Stirling, a dis-
tance of about twenty miles.
   Zoology.-Few places abound more in game than this. Our 
heath-clad hills and rising grounds are everywhere filled with them.
Yet they are net so abundant as they were once, by reason of im-
provements and cultivation.  Goats have entirely disappeared from
this quarter, also the forest deer; but there is a sufficiency of

