
416                          AYRSHIRE.

with the exception of between two and three miles of it, near the town
of Ballantrae, which is flat and sandy. The town or village is situated
on the north bank of the Stinchar, `bout half a mile from its mouth,
and nearly opposite to the opening between the Mull of Cantire and
the north of Ireland. The sea in every other direction is land-
locked, but in that the nearest land is America. In high winds
from the westward, the beach is exposed to the full fury of the
Atlantic, and nothing can exceed the grandeur of the sea view;
while in the serene evenings of summer, nothing can be softer,
more placid, or more beautiful than the same expanse of sea, often
with scarcely even a ripple to break its glassy surface.
     There are three lighthouses visible from the village, viz. that on
Corsewall Point, Wigtonshire, that on the Irish coast almost oppo-
site to the village, and that on Pladda to the northward.
	Hydrography.--The only river of any size in Ballantrae, is the
Stinchar. It has its source in the parish of Barr, flows southwest,
crosses Colmonell, forms the northern boundary of part of Ballan-
trae, then flows through it for about three miles, and discharges it-
self after a course of about thirty miles into the Irish sea. It is
broad and shallow, like all other mountain streams, is speedily
flooded, and soon again subsides. It receives the Tig from the
south-east, which is also a mountain stream of the same character,
but smaller. The App is a smaller stream still, about four miles
south from the Stinchar, and flows westward throufh Glenapp
into Lochryan. None of these streams is navigable even for the
smallest distance.
	The fish which frequent these streams are the common trout,
the sea-trout, the salmon, and the par. Salmon go up the Stinchar,
in great numbers, to spawn in October and November; and the
young return to the sea again in April and the beginning of May.
The salmon fishery at the mouth of the Stinchar, opens in the be-
ginning of February, and closes in the middle of September, but
the time both of opening and closing the river is considered too
early. Though it opens in February, the tacksmen of the fishery
never think of putting a net in water till the 20th April, and even
then not one fish in twenty is worth keeping, and at the time of
closing, the fish are quite as good as at any previous time, save per-
haps the end of July and the month of August. If the river were
kept closed till the beginning of April, and not closed again till the
beginning of October, it would be a better arrangement, the Stin-
char being considered a very late river. The rent of the fishery is


