
                                 BIRNIE.                      89

  Rent of Land.- The average rent of the arable land is 15s. per
Scots acre; and the duration of leases generally nineteen years.
  Husbandry.-The farms are usually managed under a six-shift
course, viz. ist, Wheat from grass manured; 2d, Oats; 3d, Tur-
nips; 4th, Barley with grass seeds; 5th, Grass, (generally cut for
hay;) 6th, Grass always pastured.  It may not be thought a cor-
rect mode of husbandry to have two white or corn crops in sucees-
sion; but the grass for wheat is always well manured, and the oat
crop following is generally excellent.  And, when a liberal allow-
ance of bone dust, or well prepared manure is given to the turnip
crop, and attention paid to cleaning, the land is kept in good con-
dition under this system.
   Cattle, &c.-The cattle are mostly a cross breed between the
low country cows of Moray with West Highland bulls; and by
considerable care and attention on the part of the breeders, the
stock have been much improved of late years.  The horses are
small, but very active, and admirably adapted for ploughing the
light land, of which this parish is chiefly composed.  The old breed
of sheep (which were small, with reddish-brown faces and legs,) have
given place to the Cheviot, which were introduced into this country
some considerable time ago, by a gentleman who now has the great-
er part of the hill grounds of Birnie, in conjunction with a part of
the Rotbes hills, under lease, and on which be has an ewe stock of
Cheviot sheep, managed on the same system with the other large
sheep stocks in the north of Scotland, and also under the charge
of shepherds brought from the border counties. By this manage-
ment, the tacksman is enabled to afford a considerable rent for
hills which not many years ago yielded little or nothing to the
landlord.
   Produce.-The following is an approximation to the annual
value of raw produce raised in the parish.

Grain of all kinds,		                                        L. 3000
Potatoes, turnips, &c.		                                            830
Flax,		                                                             15
Land in Pasture for cattle at L.1,10s. per head, and at 2s 6d. for sheep,   890
									-------
                                                                        L. 4735

		            V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Means of Communication.-The success of agriculture and the
condition.of farms have not inaptly been said to depend upon good
roads, as the comfort and health of the animal frame depend upon
the soundness of its blood-vessels.  To secure good roads, then
ought to be the first object with every improving landlord.


