
                                SOUTHEND.                              433

     would be found to answer well.  It is not, however, cultivated
     but beans are now raised in great abundance.
       The tenantry have been industrious in draining to a very great
     extent, which, from the nature of the soil, is much required ; and
     their mode of doing so is by cutting the drains three feet across
     and four feet deep, and piping with stones.  In this way, within
     the last twelve years, nearly a third has been added to the arable
     land.
       The Duke of Argyle has straightened and embanked the
     water of Coniglen.   The undertaking was one of great extent,
     and although attended with the expense of L.1600, has added
     much to the value of his Grace's property.
       Leases.-Leases are generally for nineteen years.
       The tenants generally build their own houses, but the proprie-
     tors in some cases give assistance.   The houses of some of the
     inferior tenants are built with clay, and are generally low,
     narrow, and cold. This is the more inexcusable, as stone
     and lime are at no great distance.  There has, however, been
     lately a farm-steading erected on the Duke of Argyle's lands of
     Machibeg, which will compete with most in any part of the king-
     dom.
       The farm-houses of nearly all the better class of tenants are ex-
     cellent and substantial.  Their roofs are indeed thatched with straw,
     which is a disadvantage ; and were slate roofs introduced, it would
     be of great advantage.
       Quarries and Mines.-There are excellent quarries of lime and
     whinstone ; the latter used for farm-buildings and dikes. The
     use of lime as a manure is pretty general, and has been found
     most highly useful for the purposes of agriculture.
                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       The distance from Campbelton, the nearest market-town, is
     nine miles.  There is one village called Newton Argyle.  The
     nearest post-town is Campbelton.  There are no turnpike roads
     in this parish ; but those we have, owing to the vigilant care of
     Mr Macdonald of Ballyshear, the principal residing heritor,
     have been greatly improved. Several good and substantial bridges
     have been built, and many places straightened and levelled,-in,
     deed, the state of the roads is creditable to the district, consider.
     ing the small means at the disposal of those who have the super-
     intendlence of them.
       Ecclesiastical State.-The church stands on a beautiful bank, ris-
       ARGYLE.                                           E e


