
	                  KILCHOMAN.                         651

   There are several points along the coast detached by deep ra-
vines and fissures, which render them almost inaccessible. To ap-
proach them by water was a perilous undertaking, and where access
on the land side could be conceived possible, they were fortified
by walls strongly built of stones, laid regularly, but without mortar.
   Buildings of the same description are found on the different
lakes and on the top of several conical hills. In one instance, on
the farm of Smaal, a mound and ditch formed the means of de-
fence. Tradition has assigned these to the period when the Danes
bad partial possession of the island.
  Two gold ornaments of a singular description were found lately
near to Sunderland House, under a large stone, which evidently
at one time stood erect, but had fallen down, and which, in the
process of levelling and trenching for agricultural purposes, was,
blasted and removed. In the black mould which it covered, were
found a broad fluted ring of the size of an armlet, and a bar or
rod, bent in a semicircular form, the ends of which are rounded
out into a cup-like hollow. It would appear by a paper publish-
ed lately by Sir William Betham, that they are some of the gold
ring money of the Celts, and that similar ones have frequently been
found in Ireland. Mr Campbell carried them to London, where
it was ascertained that they were very pure gold. They weighed
22 1/2 sovereigns. They are now in his possession.
   During the last ten years, several stone coffins were discovered
in the conical hills below Sunderland Farm : they were in length
from 2 1/2 to 3 feet, from 20 inches to 2 feet wide, and from 16 to 18
inches deep. They were formed of slabs of the clay slate of the
district. Some contained one or two urns of rudely formed un-
baked clay; others contained skulls, and other human bones.
   Modern Buildings.--The mansion-house of Mr Campbell of
Sunderland was built about twenty years ago, when he retired
from the E.I.C. service. The situation is an elevated declivity,
a mile distant from the shore of Lochindaal. The place chosen
was covered with strong heath, and the low ground was an unpro-
ductive marsh. The heath has given place to thriving plantations
and luxuriant crops, and thorough drainage has converted the
morass into good pasture land.
   The Commissioners of the Northern Lights erected, in 1824,
a lighthouse on Isle Orsay, at the point of the Rinns. This erec-
tion, and the houses and offices for the keepers, have been built
in a substantial and commodious manner.


