
246                          KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.


acre in extent, is but a short distance from the land, and accessi-
ble by a causeway, on which, at times, the water is not above a
foot deep. It is a sweet spot studded with trees and bushes;
add the cattle haviag once tasted its delicious herbage, even when
the water is several feet deep, fearlessly encounter the washing of
their rib by wading to gratify their palate. About 70 or 80
yards farther in, towards the centre of the loch, is a small cir-
cular island, composed almost entirely of stones, and obviously
artificial. At one period it was much frequented by sea-gulls as
a breeding place; but, for many years past, they have deserted it;
and now, in a very slight covering of soil, some trees are growing.
It rises about six feet above the level of the water.
	Lochend Loch lies at the foot of Lowtis, on the north, is
smaller than Lochkindar, perhaps fully at deep, and abounds with
perch, pike, and furnishes a few large trouts, weighing from three
to five pounds, and having a very thick leathery skin. In it there
is also a small island, apparently artificial, within, a few yards of
the land, and well wooded.
	Craigend Loch is about a mile distant, towards the north-east
from Lochead, separated from it by a high ridge of rough rocky
land, is not nearly so deep, and furnishes some very large pike.
The bottom of both these lochs is mossy. All the lakes are beau-
tifully fringed, in many places, with wood, and, in other places,
the arable land reaches to the water's edge. Lochkindar sends its
water, collected from Criffel, to New Abbey Pow, which joins
the Nith. The other two lakes help to form Kirkgunzeon Lane,
which discharges itself into the water of Urr, near Dalbeattie.
	Rocks.--The predominant rock is syenite. The entire western
boundary from north to south is composed of this rock. It pre-
vails throughout the greater portion of the division towards the
north-east. Nothing else is seen externally, if we except a coarse
unavailable limestone, which appears in the south-eartern division,
and apatch of fine greenstone, all on the states of Drum and
Corbelly. The peculiarites of the syenite are as follows:--
	1st, it is said to contain hyacintb; but this mineral has been
rarely found. 2nd It approaches stratification and the columnar
Shape. A resemblance to the stratified from presents itself on
the hill of Glensone, at or near the north-western boundary.  An
approach to the columnar shape is found in detached spots.  For
example, there are two or three blocks at the Roan on the Crif-
fell side of Lockindar, having a four-sided aspect, considered co-


