
434                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

wounded, and old.  It was situated at a place called Spittal, at
the lower extremity of the parish.

<TABLE=POPULATION>

                          III.--POPULATION.

          The population of the parish now amounts to 1625.

                         In 1801, it was 1382
                           1811,        1402
                           1821,        1504
                           1831,        1625
Number of familhes in the parish,              316
     chiefly employed in agriculture,          153
          trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  103
     The total number of proprietors in the parish is 7, all of
whom possess land of L. 50 a-year in value and upwards.  Only
one of them is resident.
     Character of the People.--In the character of the people there
exists considerable diversity, according to the localities which they
inhabit, and the employments which they follow.  In general they
are sober, industrious, and intelligent.  As the farms, for the most
part, are extensive, and the farmers wealthy, there is considerable
disproportion of rank; but the farm-servants and shepherds are
kept comfortable, and these seem, especially in the landward part
of the parish, contented with their condition and circumstances.
Their habits are cleanly, and their food wholesome.  About six or
seven years ago, poaching, not by the inhabitants of the parish,
but by poachers from a distance, prevailed to a very great extent;
but vigorous measures having been adopted to prevent the inroads of
those lawless bands of immoral and misguided men, who infested
the whole country around, poaching has become a thing very rare-
ly practised.

                            IV.--INDUSTRY.
     Live-Stock.--The upper division of the parish is particularly well
adopted for pastoral purposes.  The sheep are all white-faced, and
regular stocks are kept.  Great pains have long been taken to obtain
and preserve the true Cheviot breed, since if this breed becomes
corrupted, its tendency to degenerate is fully more than that of any
other.  Through attention and superior skill, some farms in the
parish are stocked with sheep, which are almost purely Cheviot.
The total number of sheep pastured in the parish is about 11,500.
The cattle are for the greater part of the Teeswater breed, and
great attention has likewise been paid to rearing and improving
them.
     Rent.--The grazing of a cow or full-grown ox, L. 5; that of a
ewe or full-grown sheep, 6s.  Valued rental of the parish, L. 18,877,
16s. 8d. Scots; real rental, L. 13,000 Sterling.



