
                     PORT-GLASGOW.                         69

In the beginning of the year 1835, the harbours of Port-Glas-
gow contained vessels which measured in all 12,000 tons, being
the largest amountof tonnage ever known to have been in this
port at one time. It may be proper to state, that formerly, the
trade of this place was almost entirely carried on in ships which
were the property of merchants in Glasgow. Of late years, how-
ever, the people of Port-Glasgow have become ship-owners to a
considerable extent; and at present about one-fourth part of the
whole, or above 7000 tons of shipping, belong to individuals resi-
dent in the town. If that spirit of commercial enterprise which
has already embarked a large capital in this way shall continue to
discover itself as it has done for the last ten years, not only an in-
crease of trade may be anticipated, but the port will acquire more
and more of an independent character.
    Harbours.--Attached to this port are two capacious harbours,
substantially built, and so completely sheltered from the storm that
the vessels moored in them have seldom been found to; suffer injury
even from the severest weather. These are furnished with ample
quay and shed-room, together with a commodious graving-dock,
the oldest in Scotland, but lately improved at a great expense for
repairing vessels. The largest vessels that trade to Clyde are
found at this port, measuring about 600 tons; a few of them regis-
ter for upwards of 650 tons; and all of them carrying nearly double
the amount of their register tonnage. Yet such is the facility of
access to the harbour, that these vessels which draw twenty-one
feet of water, are towed up and down in the channel of the river
with the greatest ease and in perfect safety.
    Wet-Dock, &c.--A very important addition to the harbour accom-
modation of Port-Glasgow is about to be obtained in the erection
of wet-docks. The present harbours being found to small for the
increasing number of ships belongin to the port, the inhabitants
of the town resolved to avail themselves of their local advantages
by converting the Bay of Newark, which is naturally adapted to
the purpose, into a spacious dock, where vessels of the largest class
might lie securely afloat in every State of the tide. Accordingly,
the trustees of the harbour obtained an act of Parliament, investing
them with the necessary powers for carrying this desirable object
into effect; and funds having been procured to the amount of
L.35,000, they were enabled to commence the work, which is now
in rapid progress, with every prospect of being finished by the end
of this year. This, when completed, will be the only dock of the


