
     of Strachur and Stralachlan.

hills which separate the parish from Glendmule.  He has
more than the half of all the woods in the parish, which
make a beautiful appearance viewed from the other side, or
from Lochfine.  The shade they afford, and the delicate
flavour of a vast quantity of honeysuckle, which grows
spontaneously among them, will be exceedinly refreshing to
the traveller, when the line of road is completed, which is
begun, and carrying on, down the side of Lochfine.  The
feelings they raise is like that of comfortable clothing in a
bleak and cold country.  There is no object in the Highlands
more pleasant than gentle sloping hills, skirted with wood,
and terminating in the sea.  Such an object Mr Maclach-
lan's estate offers to the view through the greatest part of
its extent-Lieutenant-General Campbell, Colonel of the
57th regiment of foot, the present laird of Strachur, is al-
so a residing heritor.  His predecessors lived sometimes in
Lochgoilhead, at a place called Ardgartan, where they had
a large property, which still continues in the family;
sometimes in different farms on their estate in this parish.
They had a considerable property in the parish of Arro-
quhar, also in the Isle of Sky.  This family is reckoned by
some the most anciet of the name of Campbell.  The late
laird of Macfarlane, who, with great genius and assiduity,
had studied the ancient hostory of the Highlands, was of this
opinion.  the patronymic name of this family was Mac-
arthur, (the son of Arthur), which Arthur, the antiqua-
ry mentioned above, maintained, was brother to Colin,
the first of the Argyle family, and that the representatives
of the two brothers continued for a long time to be known
by the names of Macarthur and Maccaillein, before they
took the surname of Campbell.  Another account makes
Arthur the first laird of Strachur, to have descended of
the family of Argyle, at a later period, in which the pre-
sent laird seems t acquiesce, by taking, with a mark of ca-


