
               		AUCHINLECK.                       325

and James Cleland, when Sir William slew Earl Percy, and put
the English to rout. William Murdoch, of the house of Bolton
and Watt, to whom the country is so much indebted for his useful
application of gas, was a native of this parish. Mr M'Gavin,
the author of the Protestant, was likewise born in it. Wallace of
Wallacetoun was once a family of considerable importance in this
district, but they now are unconnected with it by property.
	Land-owners.--The principal land-owners are, Sir James Bos-
well, Bart., who possesses nearly two-thirds of the valued rental;
the Marquess of Bute; and Mr Limond of Dalblair; besides whom
there are eight other proprietors.
	Parochial Registers.--Previous to the appointment of the pre-
sent schoolmaster, these were not very regularly kept; and they
go no farther back than to about the beginning of last century.
	Antiquities.--There is an old castle at Auchinleck, which is
very much dilapidated, but which, from its situation, must have
been a place of great strength. The date of its erection is un-
known; there are, however, several legends regarding its history:
Near it, is the old House or Place of Auchinleck. Here, and
indeed both up and down the stream, in the neighbourhood of
which it stands, the scenery is remarkably fine,--the rocks on its
banks being in many places about 100 feet in height, and the
whole finely shrouded in wood. There are two or three bridges
connecting various parts of the grounds; and one in particular is
very grand, being built across a deep ravine, and commanding a
beautiful view of the picturesque rivulet which runs below. The
present house stands on a more elevated situation, at a consider-
able distance from the old one, and is a handsome Grecian struc-
ture built by Lord Auchinleck. There is another old castle in
the upper part of the parish, called Kyle Castle, the property of
the Marquess of Bute. Very little of it remains; and there seems
to be no trace whatever of its history. It is situate in a seques-
tered district, on an elevated tongue of land, near the junction of
the Gelt and Glenmore waters. At Dornal, also, there are some
few remains of what seems at one period to have been a place of
strength.
	Near the head of Airds Moss, is to be seen the monument erect-
ed to the memory of Richard Cameron, who was here overtaken
and slain by the dragoons, on the 20th of July 1680. It consist-
ed till lately of a flat stone with his own name, and the names of
the other individuals who were slain along with him, inscribed up-


