
			PETTINAIN. 		          545

there was little or no communication with Carnwath, except by
travelling nine or ten miles.
        Means of Communication.-The only turnpike road connected
with the parish is that leading from Carlisle to Stirling, which
passes merely through a corner of the parish. The parish roads
are kept in excellent repair, and afford a ready communication in
every direction.
	Besides a number of enclosures which formerly existed, there
have recently been erected stone fences to the extent of 4840 yards.
They are from four to five feet in height, and cost 1s. 3d. per
yard in erecting.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is conveniently situate
for the greater part of the population; those farthest removed from
it do not exceed two miles. The belfry bears date 1696, with the in-
scription " Holiness becomes God's house;" but it appears to have
formed part of a much older building than the present church.
The church is in good repair, having been completely reseated in
1820. It affords accommodation for 234, according to the legal
calculation; and there are 48 free sittings. The patronage belongs
to Sir W. C. Anstruther, Bart.
	The present manse was built in 1820, and is a very excellent
and comfortable house. The former manse, which was built in
1711, is still in existence, and being found substantial though small,
it was converted, in 1820, into office houses, for which purpose it
answers exceedingly well. The glebe consists of about 10 acres,
including site of the house, garden, &c. but only 8 acres of these
are, properly speaking, arable, the remaining portion being unfit for
any other purpose than pasturing, in consequence of its being pre-
cipitous and near the rock. It may be valued from L. 25 to L.30.
The stipend is partly made up, by the Government bounty. It con-
sists of 52 bolls oatmeal, with some fractional parts, 23 bolls bear
do. do. ; from the heritors, L.50, 19s. 4 1/2d. from the Exchequer,
L.47, 6s.
	There are no chapels of any description in the parish, the whole
population being connected with the church, except four or five in-
dividuals, and it ought to be stated to the credit of the parishioners
that the church is in general well attended. The number of com-
municants is about 200.
        Education.-There is but one school in the parish; the parochial
school, which is of course endowed. The branches commonly
taught are, English, English grammar, writing, arithmetic, Latin,


