
                       CRIEFF.                              493

  There are no alluvial deposits except those that are found on
the banks of the Earn, and those that are left by the mountain
streams.  They generally consist of sand, gravel, and sometimes
of vegetable substances; and do not appear to be in any way re-
markable.
  The soil varies considerably in different parts of the parish.
On the north, west, and south sides it is light and sandy or gravel-
ly, and occasionally rests upon rocks of freestone of a tolerably
good quality; in the immediate vicinity of the town, it becomes a
pretty rich loam, owing principally to the quantity of manure which
it receives, and the care which is otherwise bestowed upon it; and,
on the east and south-east sides, it is in general a kind of stiff,
reddish, tilly clay-often wet, and frequently resting upon rocks
of the same colour, which do not admit of being hewn, but which
are bard and durable, which split easily, and which are much used
for building feuces.
  No mines have yet been discovered in the parish, and it is ex-
ceedingly probable that none exist.  Several attempts have been
made to find coals in the neighbourhood.  One was with-
out success, many years ago, and another is now being made with-
Out any flattering prospects, in the district of Strathallan. A pro-
posal was lately made to.  Lady Baird Preston, of Ferntower, by
one who prefessed to be acquainted with the subject, to sink a shaft
in a part of her Ladyship's property, which lies about a mile and
a half east of Crieff; and the terms on which he seemed disposed
to make the attempt were such as could leave no doubt of his own
hope of success. He was willing that the discovery of coals should
be made the conditinn on which he was to be remunerated for his
trouble, tbat he should receive so much if he succeeded, and that
he should receive nothing if he failed. The terms were, not ac-
cepted, because it did not appear right to be the means of bring-
ing any man into circumtances in which the chances of success
were believed to be so much against him; but the proposal was
so very specious that it gave occassion to very particular inquires
The result has been most decidely unfavourable.  And , however
much we should desire that it were a mistaken one, we fear that
the opinion too well founded, that there are no coals to the north
Of the Ochils.
   Zoology.-There are few animals in the parish which can be

<FOOTNOTE>Professor of Chembury in the University of Glasglov. It was Written Expressly for
this Account.


