
     Statistical Account

different periods has been mortified by individuals for behoof
of the poor of the parish.  Of this sum 2000 merks, or
L. 111:2:2 8/12 ster. was mortified by the late Walter M'Lach-
lan of Wester Colbowie, the interest of which in terms of his
will must be distributed among the poor in Buchlyvie.  The
half of this sum was left to the disposal of the associate session
at Buchlyvie, whose intromillions were to be subject to the
review of the kirk session of Kippen; but they declining to
accept of the management on these conditions, the whole was
given to the kirk session of Kippen.  On this account a sepa-
rate book is kept for recording the distributions that are made
to the poor in the barony of Buchlyvie.-The annual a-
mount of the funds must necessarily vary.  From L. 40 to
L. 50 is distributed every year.  The number of the poor
is also variable.  In 1792 the number of ordinary pensioners
on the list was generally 22, who received in different sums,
according to their necessities, the highest L. 2:7, the lowest
9 s. or 10 s. in the course of the year.  Besides the stated dis-
tributions, occasional supply is also granted to persons who
suffer from temporary distress.-In 1782 the heritors bought,
and distributed a quantity of oatmeal to the most necessitous,
below the market price.  With a view to prevent improper
applications, it has sometimes been required that those who
receive supply, should assign to the session for behoof of the
poor all the property they may die possessed of, after the
house rent and funeral charges are paid. But the necessity of
this measure is not very urgent, whilst the poor in general
discover so much reluctance to accept of public charity.-The
funds are managed by the kirk-session, who keep regular ac-
counts of their intromillions; there are occasionally revised and
homologated by the heritors.-Objections have sometimes
been made to the payment of the salaries of the presbytery
clerk and officer, and of the synod clerk, which altogether a-


