
                          HERIOT.                       201

possession of Mark Kerr, supposed Commendator of Newbattle,
to whose heir they descended.
   In 1609, Robert, the second Earl of Lothian, was served heir
to his father, Mark, in the lands of Heriot and Heriot-moor, which
were afterwards sold to Walter Hay, to whose son they descended
in 1643.
   On the failure of this family, at the death of the late Lord
Borthwick, in 1692, the barony of Heriot was acquired by a son
of Lord Stair, then one of the Clerks of Session, upon which
he was styled Dalrymple of Borthwick, from whom it descended,
through the late Dowager Lady Dalrymple, to her eldest son, Sir
John H. Dalrymple of Cousland and Fala, Bart., Oxenford Castle,
present proprietor.
   It is supposed by some that Douglas, author of the celebrated
translation of Virgil's AEneid, who once held the provostship of St
Giles in Edinburgh, and afterwards became Bishop of Dunkeld,
was rector at Heriot. Upon investigation, however, we find this
to be incorrect; for on examining the manuscript copy of his life
prefixed to his work, it is not Heriot, but Hawick that is mentioned.
   Land-owners.--The land-owners are 7 in all, viz.  Sir John
Dalrymple, Bart. principal heritor and patron; the Earl of Rose-
berry; J. Borthwick, Esq. of Crookston; Thomas Adinston, Esq.
of Carcant; S. Fraser, Esq. of Garvald; Thomas Cranston, Esq.
of Dewar; William Baillie, Esq. of Falahill.
   Parochial Registers.--The ancient parochial registers are very
imperfect, and have been very irregularly kept. There are only
three, the fourth being lost. The earliest bears date 1685.
They record only baptisms and deaths, and the latter imperfectly.
   Antiquities.--On the tops of some of the hills are to be found the
remains of ancient camps. One or two are quite distinct, and con-
sist of three or more concentric circles with the marks of gateways.
But whether encampments of the Romans, Britons, Danes, Picts,
or Scots, we have no means of determining. On the south-east
boundary of the farm of Dewar; and road side leading to Inver-
leithen, and quite in the march between the parishes, are to be
seen the head and footstones of a grave. It is said to be that of
the piper of Peebles, who, undertaking for a wager to play from,
Peebles to Lauder, became exhausted and fell down, and was bu-
ried where he died. On Dewar Hill, not far from the piper's
grave, there is a large stone called Lot's Wife, the cause of which
title is unknown. At a little distance: from it again, is a place cal.


