
306                          FIFESHIRE.

but there is little of it planted otherwise. There are some very
fine beech hedges on the grounds of Kinaldie and Lathockar.
There is a large sycamore plane at Priorletham, the upper branches
of which are now considerably decayed, and it is quite rotten into
the heart in some places. The following is an account of it drawn
up by Mr Sang, nurseryman, Kirkaldy, in September 1818. The
Priorletham sycamore plane-tree grows upon a rocky knoll. The
shortness of its bole, the great spread of its top, and its general
contour, seems to indicate that it has been a lone tree from its infancy.
Nevertheless, though it has been deprived of the shelter which
might have been afforded by contiguous trees, it has grown to a
great size. The hole is 12 feet in height. The girth at the sur-
face of the ground is 26 feet, at the middle 15 feet 4 inches, and
at the upper part, from whence the branches are set forth, it also
girths 26 feet. The principal branches, which are ten in number,
are like so many considerable trees, some of them being 2 feet
diameter. The general height of the top is about 65 feet. The
diameter of the circle over which it spreads itself is 90 feet. A
sycamore in such a situation, and under such circumstances, will
have grown well, if it acquired a diameter of bole of 2 feet in 100
years; and if we calculate its increase of magnitude at the same
ratio, then this tree will be 300 years of age; but when a tree is
in its prime of growth, it acquires greater accession of solid wood
than subsequently; for subsequently, the capillary tubes become
more rigid, and the circulation of the juices more languid; and a
limit is fixed by nature, when all accession of magnitude ceases. It
therefore follows, that the annual layers of wood, forming the last
2 feet of diameter, have required a greater length of time to pro-
duce it than that immediately preceding, and I should not hesi-
tate to, allow it 150 years. But it cannot be less than eighty years
since the tree arrived at its climax of growth. It has, during all
that period, been in a progress of decay. At this time, many of the
topmost branches are dead, and in several crevices of the bole
decomposition is apparent. Its death may be greatly accelerated
by the moisture retained on a flat space covered with grass, some 2
or 3 feet in diameter, on the top of the bole where the branches take
their rise. The tree may, however, survive sixty or eighty years
longer. From the above observations it will follow that the Prior-
letham sycamore or plane-tree cannot be of a less age than 430
years, or perhaps nearer 450.
                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, John Anstruther

