
108                  CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

the whole body of the inhabitants of this and the other parishes of
the county.  It was a favourite measure, in which all felt interest-
ed; and it would have delighted the writer to record here the
names of all the principal subscribers, could it be admitted, in tes-
timony of the grateful sense he entertains of the handsome and
cordial manner in which his appeals in behalf of this important
object were responded to by a classes.
   There is a mission on the establishment of the Society in Scot-
land for Propagating Christian Knowledge, at Bruan, in the east-
ern extremity of the parish.  This station was formerly connected
with Berriedale, where the missionary resides.  The disjunction
took place in 1826, when the Government church was erected at
thelatter place.  A comfortable manse has been erected at Bruan
for the missionary, which cost L.232, and the expense was defrayed
by the people connected with the district.  A glebe of four acres
of excellent land was handsomely made over to the mission by the
late Sir John Sinclair of Ulbster, Bart., whose estates are chiefly
benefited thereby.  The mission-house stands on the boundary
betwixt this parish and Wick, and now accommodates about an
equal number from each parish.  The church is seated for 600.
    The population from both parishes is 1800, and the mission is one
of the most-compact anywhere to be found.  The present mis-
sionary's stipend has recently been augmented to L. 100, only L. 25
of which is paid by the Society--the remainder is paid, or at least
promised, by the people, and raised from the seat-rents as far as
these can be realized.  This district also ought to be made a parish
quoad sacra, more especially as it is now completely disjoined from
the parish church, by that of Lybster intervening betwixt them.
About 350 of the inhabitants of theinterior of the parish are
connected with the Royal Bounty Mission of Dirlot, in the parish
of Halkirk, and attend public worship at the meeting-house of
Halsary, where a new and more suitable house is about to be built,
and is much needed.
   There are four catechists in the parish.  They are appointed
by the kirk-sessions, with the consent and approbation of the peo-
ple among whom they labour, and by whom they are paid.  There
are no Dissenting or Seceding chapels in the parish.  An attempt
was made a few years ago to introduce dissent into the village of
Lybster, where the most strenuous exertions were made and great
expense incurred by the United Secession body to establish a con-
gregation, but it has signally failed, and is now given up as hope-


