
     Statistical Account

been bequeathed to the kirk-session for the benefit of the 
poor; and the usual collections on the Sabbaths had risen
to 8 d. an increase of precisely 12 times in the space of a
century; from that to the present year 1793, the weekly 
collection has increased nearly 11 times.  The charity
which the parish thus gives to the poor, is no doubt owing
in a great measure to its increased opulence.  It will not
be supposed, however repugnant to their liberality, that in
common with many other parishes, they enjoy that useful
instruction which a church and two schools may be expected
to communicate.

   Church, Stipend, Heritors, etc.-The church, which is
situated at the village of Monifieth, is an ancient building;
but the period of its construction is unknown.  It must have
been built before the aera of the Reformation, as on the E.
end of it is a quire, in which mass, in the days of Popery,
was wont to be celebrated*.  The church-living, including 

<FOOTNOTE>

the prison of Dundee, who had been taken captive by the English army
under General Monk, as they passed through this parish to the siege of
that city, and which sum Mr John Barclay, the minister, and another
gentleman, were commissioned to carry.

   *Tradition relates, that there were once at the same time four chapels
in the parish; one at the East Ferry, where there is still a burying-place; 
a second on the banks of the Digbty, at the Miln of Balmossie, the founda-
tion-stones of which were dug up by the present farmer; a third on that
spot in the land Ethiebealin, which is still called Chapel Dokie; and the
fourth at Monifieth.  The chapel at Monifieth, it is said, being found
likely to endure the longest, was made, as it continues at present, the 
parish church, and the rest were shut, and suffered to decay; but when
this happened, tradition is altogether silent.  Before the Reformation,
Monifieth was annexed to the diocese of St Andrew's.  In 1560, when 
Presbyterianism was first established in Scotland, its superintendant was
appointed to reside in Brechin.  After 1606, it belonged to the Presbytery
of Dundee, and Synod of Angus and Mearns.


