
                       CUPAR.                                11


the same as what prevails ever the county. It is the five or six
year's rotation, and as the soil is suitable both for wheat and tur-
nips, the most luxuriant and productive crops- are everywhere to
be found. The general duration. of leases is nineteen years, with
entry at Martinmas. The farm-buildings are neat and commodi-
ous, and suitable to the requirements of farms where all is under
the plough.
  Quarries.-There are four quarries in the parish of excellent
white sandstone, and two of greenstone fit for road metal and coarse
kinds of building.
  Produce.-It seems quite impossible to state the gross amount
of agricultural produce. The number of heritors liable to pay
stipend, or rather the number of small properties in the bands of
heritors so liable, amounts to 172. Any attempt at determining
the gross produce, could lead to nothing but a distant approxima-
tion to the truth. It is no uncommon thing, however, to find land
yielding 3 1/2 quarters of wheat, 6 do. of barley, 5 1/2 do. of oats per acre.
Of potatoes, of which a great many are grown to be shipped for the
London market, it is not very uncommon to 6nd 50 or 60 bolls of 28
stones on the acre. Fifty bolls an acre, however, may be taken as
an average crop of this valuable root.
  Manufactures.-There are three spinning-mills in the parish,
one of which is driven entirely by water, another partly by water
and partly by steam, and a third altogether by steam. Of these
the first two are occupied in spinning flax, and the last in making
thread. The number of hands employed in the three amounts to
236. Besides these there are two corn and barley mills, and two
flour mills, all well employed. The corn, barley, and flour mills
at Cupar, especially since they were feued by the burgh of Cupar
to the late John Inglis, Esq. of Colluthie, have been celebrated
as the best in Fife; and have been employed by bakers and meal-
dealers from a great distance. There is a snuff-mill, to which to-
bacco is sent to be manufactured, not only from all parts of Fife
but also from the counties to the north. It is said that about
60,000 lbs. of snuff are manufactured there every year. And
whether it is owing to the greater consumption of that article, or
to the growing celebrity of the will, it has been found necessary of
late to increase the power of the mill, and to add a steam power
to that of the water, by which it was formerly driven. There is
also a washing or fulling mill. There are two tan-works; one for
hides and another for sheep skins. To this letter a manufacture


