
22                            LANARKSHIRE.

	Manufactures.--Cotton-spinning.--The principal manufacture
in the parish is cotton-spinning at New Lanark. The establish-
ment formerly acquired very extensive notoriety, under the super-
intendence of Mr Robert Owen, son-in-law of David Dale, the
original founder. But in 1827, that gentleman ceased to have any
interest in the business, which has since been carried on under the
firm of Walker and Company.
	There are 1110 persons employed in this manufacture, of whom
about 60 are mechanics and labourers. Children are not admitted
into the factory under ten years of age. The hours of work are
eleven and a quarter daily throughout the year, whatever be the
state of trade. The people are very comfortably supported,--are
in general healthy,--and, in comparison with other establishments
of the kind, remarkably decent in behaviour.
	Weaving.--Another extensive branch of manufacture in the
parish is weaving, in which 873 persons are engaged; 702 in the
town, and 171 in the country. This trade is at the very lowest
ebb, and scarcely yields the means of support to those who are
employed in it. There are a few of the weavers who, being in
the prime of life, and endowed with superior strength and skill,
can gain 8s. a-week; but to do this, they must sit from fourteen
to sixteen hours a-day, and the exertion soon ruins the health of
the most robust. The common wages scarcely average 6s. per
week, from which a drawback must be made of 1s. 3d.; 10d.
for loom-rent, 3d. for light, and 2d. for carriage of the web. Men
advanced in, life, dispirited by the remembrance of better times,
may make about 3s. 6d. The only addition to this miserable pit-
tance is what their wives can earn by winding the waft upon pirns,
and which varies from 6d. to 1s. 3d. per week. *
	When three or four in one family are employed, and the joint
gains are under the management of a thrifty wife, they are able to
make a tolerable shift. But nothing can exceed the misery of
those who have themselves and a family to support by their single-
handed industry. The misery they have suffered has had the un-
happy but too common effect of plunging some of them into care-
less and dissipated habits; but the majority are well behaved and
intelligent men, and bear their hardships with commendable pa-

the value of fruit has been gradually falling, partly owing to the larger quantities
produced, and partly to its being brought from other districts to Glasgow by means
of steam-vesssels, with greater safety and expedition than formerly.

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, the condition of the weavers has been considerably
improved,--in consequence of the cheapness of provisions, a greater supply of work.
and a small advance on the price of the yard.


