
                             RATHO.                          99

who, besides superintending the management of them, contributed
most liberally beyond his legal proportion, to the expense of their
improvement.
   There is, besides the means of communication already specified,
a carrier from Ratho to Edinburgh twice a-week, on Tuesdays
and Fridays.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The Church of Ratho is said to have been
anciently dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and that this was the case,
is confirmed by the fact, that a fountain in the immediate neighbour-
hood of the church still bears the name of the Lady's Well.  Ratho
was then a rectory, of which the patronage appears to have be-
longed to the lords of the manor.  The living was early of con-
siderable value, being rated in the ancient taxation at seventy
merks.  In 1444, when the College Kirk of Corstorphine was
founded by the donation and mortification of Sir John Forrester
of Corstorphine, the teinds and patronage of Ratho were made
over to him by the Archbishop of St Andrews, as directed by a
popish bull.  By this means four prebendal stalls were endowed
in connection with the College Kirk, which are called in ancient
documents half Dalmahoy, half Hatton, half Bonnington, half
Platt, thus intimating their connection with this parish as the
source of their revenue.  The teinds of Ratho being thus in a
great measure abstracted, it sunk, we presume, from the dignity
of a rectory into a mere curacy.  In 1617, upon the disjunction
of the College Kirk from the Abbacy of Holyrood, with which it
had been previously connected, and its erection into a separate
institution, called the Parsonage and Vicarage of Corstorphine,
the prebends to which we have alluded were appropriated for a
maintenance to the ministers thereof, with the reservation of L.40
Scots, as a stipend to the minister of Ratho.  In 1633, by an
Act of Charles I., the ecclesiastical institutions of Corstorphipe
were again remodelled, and the four prebends were annexed to
the College Kirk as before.  The greater part of the teinds of
Ratho continued to be thus applied, in all likelihood, till the Re-
volution, when the Presbyterian form of church, government was
finally re-established, and Ratho became a distinct parish, instead
of being, as it had been during the reigns of Popery and Episco-
pacy, a more appendage to the ecclesiastical institution of Cor-
storphine.

<FOOTNOTE>See Caledonia, and the old documents of Lauderdale Family in the hands of
Gibson-Craigs, Wardlaw, and Dalzel, W.S.


