
                             FYVIE.                                321

payment of the second tithes; and a considerable number are oc-
cupied with the affairs of the church and priory.  At Fyvie Castle
the series of charters is numerous and extensive, beginning towards
the close of the fourteenth century, and descending in an almost
unbroken chain to the present time.  The original charter of Sir
Henry Preston, obtained from Robert III. in 1390, is lost, but
an official extract is preserved.  There are also preserved an
extract of the appointment of Alexander Seton, Lord Urquhart,
to be President of the Court of Session, in 1593; the charter of
erection of the barony of Fyvie into a lordship, with all the privi-
leges of a Peer of Parliament in his favour, in 1597; the sig-
nature under the hand of James VI., with the commission
under the Great and Privy-Seal constituting him Chancellor of
Scotland in 1604; and the Commission and patent of his creation
as Earl of Dunfermline in 1605; with his appointment as Keep-
er of Holyro6d Palace in 1611.  There is also an interesting set
of about thirty documents relating to the public transactions be-
tween 1640 and 1770, in which Charles, t he second Earl of Dun-
fermline, bore a part.  Of these may be specified the Conference
at Ripon, 1640; the General Assembly at St Andrews, 1642, to
which Dunfermline was commissioner, and to which refers an order
of the English Parliament to the Assembly; the instructions
of King Charles I. to Dunfermline, the commissioner; two let-
ters from the King to Dunfermline, and one from Dunfermline
in reply, during the sitting of the Assembly; the gift of the Privy
Seal of Scotland to Dunfermline; the King's leaving Holden-
by, 1647; the negociations between Charles II. and the Com-
missioners of the Estates of Scotland, at Breda, 1650; and the
meeting of the Scottish Parliament, 1661.  It may also be stated,
that at Fyvie Castle, there is a considerable number of paintings,
both by ancient and modern artists, and an excellent library, in
the departments particularly of Scottish antiquities, history, bio-
graphy, topography, and poetry, well stored.
   Proprietorship.-At one period the barony of Fyvie had the
alias designation of Formartine, and the proprietorship can be sa-
tisfactorily ascertained from an early date; but the term Formar-
tine is now applied to the second of the five divisions of the
county of Aberdeen, while it also gives the title of Viscount to the
Earl of Aberdeen.  The ancient barony of Formation or Premar-
tyn formed three-fourths of this district, the other one-fourth con-
stituting the barony of Belhelvie.  The term Fyvie is now re-
   ABERDEEN.                         X


