
288                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the names of their children born in the parish, he cannot boast of
much success.
 Clergy.--Mr Joseph Tennent is mentioned in an old record of
presbytery, as minister of Bedrule, as far back as 1606, and seems
to have been one of the first incumbents after the Reformation.
He lived till about 1631.  He also held for a considerable time,
the living of Abbotrule, the cure of which he likewise served till
about 1621 ; when it was disjoined from Bedrule, and Mr James
Ker, laird of the Grange, (an estate in Abbotrule,) was ordained
there, and was the first Protestant minister of that parish after its
disjunction from Bedrule.  Mr Tennent was succeeded by Mr Da-
vid Fowlis, who was admitted 30th October 1633, by the Bishop
of Caithness, * and presbytery of Jedburgh.  Mr Fowlis, was soon
after translated to Oxnam, which in those times seems to have been
considered as one of the most valuable livings in the south of Scot-
land; and Mr Henry Peirson succeeded him in the benefice of
Bedrule.  But the Covenanters soon after gaining the ascendancy,
both these gentlemen were removed from their churches, for their
attachment to Episcopacy.

   Mr Henry Elliot was the Presbyterian minister who succeeded
Mr Peirson, and was admitted by the presbytery of Jedburgh, as-
sisted by commissioners, from the neighbouring presbyteries of
Selkirk, Kelso, and Erselton; and died about 1653. The church
of Bedrule was kept vacant, in those contentious times, for the
space of five years.  Mr Hugh Scott was ordained here 17th
March 1658. He did not continue long, minister; for on the re-
establishment of Episcopacy, he was removed from his church for
nonconformity.  Mr James Adamson, minister of Carriden, was
preferred to the living of Bedrule, 7th September 1664, and con-
tinued minister here during the reigns of Charles and James, and
seems to have died about the time of the Revolution.  He was
succeeded by Mr James Borland in 1690, who was the first mi-
nister settled here after Presbyterianism was re-established.  From
his epitaph, written in respectable Latin, we learn that he met
with a good deal of opposition from the Episcopalians in the pa-
rish--" qui juvenis veritatis viam per varios casus et praelatis ipsum
persequentibus invictus tehuit."  +  Mr Borland was succeeded by
Mr John Gilchrist in 1714, who in 1748 was succeeded by Mr

<FOOTNOTE>Dr John Abernethy, then Bishop of Caithness, and minister of Jedburgh. He
was the author of  a work, entitled A Christian and Havenly Treatise, containing
Physic for the Soul.
<FOOTNOTE>Epitaph in Bedrule church-yard.


