
                    WANDELL AND LAMINGTOUNE.              835

divided into compartments by freestone columns.  It  will have
every sort of convenience requisite to make it a most comfortable
inn,-and as the Dumfries heavy coach to and from the metro-
polis every week-day passes through the, village,-gentlemen fond
of angling may thus not only find a safe and speedy conveyances
at a small expense, from the dingy atmosphere of "Auld Reekie,"
to the pure air and wholesome waters of the "flowing Clyde," but
will also find, at the Baillies' Arms Inn of Lammingtoune, excel-
lent accommodation for a few days or weeks, and that, too, within
ten minutes' walk of one of the very best of trouting streams in,
the kingdom.
   Quarries.-There is no public quarry in this parish.  Stones
for building dikes are chiefly taken from some rocky spots upon
Loanhead Hill, or from that of Hillhouse,-also from a place on
Hartside Burn, and sometimes from the rocky bed of the river at
Clydesbridge, in Wandell.  The stone procured is often of a
splinty description, and not very good for building houses, though
still used for that purpose.  Freestone is brought, if needed, either
from Thornhill in Nithsdale, or from Stone Hill in the parish of
Carmichael.  Slates are got either from Stobo in Tweeddale, or
from Glenochar in Crawford, fifteen miles distant.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-The village of Lammingtoune is situated ow the
north-east side of the small burn known by the same names, and on
both sides of the turnpike road leading from Biggar to Dumfries-
shire, by Abington and Leadhills to Sanquhar, or by Crawford,
to either Moffat or Thornhill.  It is thirty-three miles and a quarter
distant, in a south-westerly direction, from ther metropolis.  At
Abington, six miles up the river, the Glasgow and English mail-
coach passes twice every day, thus affording a speedy conveyance
either to the south or west.  There are various carriers
week from the near neighbourhood, to Edinburgh, besides others
passing to the same city, from Nithsdale and, Galloway.  Biggar,
distant rather more than six miles, is our regular market-town
where the farmers and others usually attend every Thursday, to
learn the state of markets and transact business.  Servants are ge-
nerally hired at Biggar fairs, in November, January, and April.
   Lammingtoune was formerly a marktet-towm itself; Sir William
Baillie having obtained a charter from Charles I. to hold "there
a weekly market every die Jovis, and two fairs, also, in  the year,
viz. one on the 15th of June, and another on the 22d of Oc-


