
78                             ABERDEENSHIRE.

streets is 40, and there are 47 watchmen employed in patrolling the
streets during the night.
   Gas-Lighting.-At an early period in the history of gas light-
ing, one or two individuals in this city and neighbourhood erected
small apparatus for the supply of their own establishments; but
until the Gas Company was set on foot in 1824, this mode of light-
ing was resorted to by a small number only, and was regarded by
most rather as a curious philosophical toy than as an advantageous
means of obtaining light.  On the first establishment of the Gas
Company, the preference was given to oil over coal gas, and they
continued to manufacture oil gas for about four years, which they
supplied at first at L. 2 per 1000 feet.  They found it necessary
to raise the price to L.2, 10s. but afterwards reduced it to L.2, 5s.;
but the very limited encouragement which they received from the
public rendered it an unprofitable speculation, and in 1828 they re-
solved to give up the manufacture of oil gas, and to distribute coal
gas.  This change was necessarily accompanied with considerable
expense, both from the change of apparatus, and because the laying
down of larger mains than had been required for the oil gas, be-
came indispensable.  The price at first charged for the coal gas
was 15s. but it has since been considerably reduced, and is now 10s.;
with discounts of from 5 to 25 per cent. according to the quan-
tity used.  Since the introduction of coal gas the success of the
company has been steadily progressive, and from the increasing de-
man it became necessary, a few years ago, still further to enlarge
the size of the mains, which are now 12 inches in diameter.  The
length of iron pipe (the smallest size of which is about 2 inches
diameter) laid in the streets, including Old Aberdeen and several
manufactories on Don side, to whichgas has lately been conveyed,
is about forty-eight miles. *
   The coaI which is used in these works for the production of gas
is the best parrot coal, which, reckoning the average of the stock at
present on band, costs them about L.1, 8s. per ton laid down at
the works.  At one time they were able to procure the same coal as
low as 13s. per ton, but in the latter part, of 1836 owing to a scar-
city of this coal, they were under the necessity for a time of using
Wigan coal, which cost them not less than L.1, 16s.  The parrot
coal is capable of yielding 6 feet of gas per lb., but in these works
it is scarcely ever pushed beyond 4 1/2 feet, which is worked off in a

<FOOTNOTE>A considerable extension of the supply of gas has very recently taken place,
pipes having been laid, within the last few weeks, nearly as far as the third mile-
stone on the Inverury road, for the supply of the populous villages of Cotton and
Woodside.


