
		                DUN.                          125

present; but there are in the parish four proprietors of land up-
wards of L. 50 in yearly value.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--There are about 2600 stand-
ard imperial acres under cultivation in the parish; besides 230
acres around the houses of Dun and Langley Park, which have
been a number of years in grass, and rent from 30s. to 80s. per
acre. There are about 550 acres under wood, and about 100
acres of uncultivated moor. There is also a large track of ground
covered by the tides that might be embanked ; but it is doubtful
whether it would yield a fair return.
	Husbandry.--Several different rotations are practised, accord-
ing to the quality of the soil. Upon the wet strong low-lying
land, a six-shift rotation, namely, 1st, fallow; 2d, wheat; 3d, pease
or beans; 4th, barley sown down with grass seeds; 5th, grass
generally cut for hay ; 6th, oats. Upon a drier class of strong
land, likewise a six-shift, 1st, potatoes, or drilled pease or beans;
2d, wheat; 3d, turnips; 4th, barley; 5th, grass, either cut or pas-
tured; 6th, oats. A small part is cropped in a four-shift, 1st, fal-
low or drilled crop; 2d, a corn crop, sown down with grass seeds;
3d, grass; 4th, oats. A considerable extent of the upper part of
the parish is the five-shift, 1st, fallow or drilled green crop; 2d,
a corn crop, sown down with grass seeds; 3d and 4th, grass, ge-
nerally pastured both years; 5th, oats. The farm-houses and
steadings are generally in a good statd nf repair, being chiefly
erected by the proprietors. The general duration of leases is for
nineteen years; and the proprietors are liberal and kind to their
tenantry.
	Breeds of Live Stock.--The cattle reared are chiefly of the
black dodded Angus breed, somewhat resembling the Galloway
cattle. They are considered to be of a good kind, growing to a
great weight, and in general good feeders.
	Rate of Wages.--Masons' and carpenters' wages during the
summer, are from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per day; and stout labourers' from
1s. 6d. to 1s. 10d.,--all without victuals. Farm-servants are
engaged generally for twelve months, at from L. 10 to L, 12,
with 6 1/2 bolls meal yearly, and a Scotch pint of sweet milk per
day for unmarried men, who are accommodated in bothies. The
married men with families get nearly the same, with an addition
of a house and garden on the farm, and some potatoes.  Women-


