
               446                       ARGYLESHIRE..

               over the sacred remains. After it had for centuries withstood the
               violence of the solstitial rains and equinoctial gales, the hand, of
               a modern Goth converted it into a quarry, out of which be took
               materials. to build dikes and offices,-paving some of the latter
               with the very grave-stones. He did not, however, long survive
               this sacrilegious deed, as he soon afterwards lost his life by a tri-
               fling accident, which the country people still consider a righteous
               retribution, and the estate passed into other hands.
                  As to the original building, tradition affirms, that Reginald, af-
               ter his father's death, sent to Rome for a quantity of consecrated
               dust (uir naomhichte na Roimhe), and made the building com-
               mensurate with the extent to which it could be scattered. Be that
               as it may, the fabric was both large and capacious. It was in the
               form of a cross, which lay in an exact position towards the four
               cardinal points. The length from east to west was about 136 feet
               by 24, and of the transept from north to south 78 feet by 24.
               The south end of the transept was extended from the gable to a
               distance of 58 feet, and from this projected another building run-
               ning parallel to the body of the church, which was crossed in its
               turn at the termination westward at right angles by another erec-
               tion; thus giving the whole the form of a quadrangle or square.
               The body of the church itself, from east to west, measured 60 feet,
               and the height of the side walls 24 feet.
                  Order of the Monks.-They were of the Cistertian order, who,
               in 1088, quitted the Abbey of Molesme in France, and took up
               their abode at Citeaux or Cistertium, a remote and desolate loca-
               lity in the diocese of Chalons in Burgundy.  They were called
               Monachi Albi, in contradistinction to the Benedictines, whose ha-
               bit was entirely black, whereas the Cistertians, whilst they wore a
               black coul or scapular, had all their other clothes white, as an
               emblem of their reformation and superior purity. The Chronicle
               of Man, written by the monks of Ruffin, and published by Cam-
               den in his Britannica (Gibson's edition), speaking of H`co's expe-
               dition from Norway in 1260 against Alexander Ill., thus writes.
               " During Haco's stay at Gudey-(God's island), now Gigha, an
               abbot of a monastery of greyfriars waited on him, begging protec-
               tion for their dwelling and holy church, and this the kind granted
               in writing. Friar Simon, one of the priests in Haco's train, had
               lain sick for some time, and died at Gudey. His body was after-
               wards carried tip to Kintyre, where the greyfriars buried him in
               their church (undoubtedly Saddell). They spread a fringed pall
               over his grave, and called him a saint."  The power of the order
                                                 4


