
     Of Clackmannan.

ed.  The village is upon the estate of Clackmannan, and
pays seu-duty to the proprietor of the estate.  It contains
117 houses, 194 heads of families, and 639 souls; 281
of whom are male, and 358 female.  It cannot be said to
have any trade:  the artificers which live in it are chiefly
employed for the use of the surrounding country*.
   There is also one other village in the parish, called New-
town Shaw, upon the estate of Lord Catheart.  It is in-
creasing very rapidly; and, from the extensive iron works
lately begun by the Devon Company in its immediate
neighbourhood, we may naturally expect, that, in a short
time, it will be in a very flourishing state.  With such a
certain prospect of success, however, it is astonishing to
see, how little attention is paid to the form and regularity
of its buildings.

     Climate and Diseases.-The climate is, upon the whole,
rather healthy than otherwise.  Though, from its vicinity 
to the surrounding hills, it is exposed to frequent and
heavy rains, and the air thereby rendered less salubrious;
yet frequent instances of lomgevity are found among the

     VOL. XIV.  4 H

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are three bakers in the village, and eight grocers, or shop-
keepers.  It has always had a pretty good inn; but seldom has been
without a dozen of tippling-houses:  a cicumstance not very favourable
to the morals of the people.  It has two fairs in the year; one in June,
and the other in September, called Bartholomew's Fair; where horses,
black cattle, coarse linen and woollen cloth, and all kinds of hardware
and haberdashery goods are exposed.  Formerly, this last was a great
market for wool brought from the south country:  of late years, however,
very small quantities of that article have been brought to it.
   There is a tambourning school lately begun in the village, by some
Glasgow manufacturers, in which about forty young girls are taught; but
it is difficult as yet to say, whether it may have a good or a bad effect.
The same company have likewise begun to teach a few boys to weave
with the shuttle.


