
100                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

religious societies; but collections are occasionally made for religious
purposes, which have always been liberal.
   Education.--There are one parochial, one privately endowed
school, and a charity sewing school, to the teacher of which the Society
in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge gives a salary of
L.4 annually. In the parochial school, the ordinary branches of
education are taught. In the private, in addition to these, practical
mathematics, geography, Latin, and Greek are taught. The pa-
rochial teacher enjoys the maximum salary, and also receives L.5
or L.6 out of the bishop's lands, Dunkeld. The school fees must
for a number of years have been very small. In the parochial school,
the fees are, for reading, 3s. per quarter; reading and writing, 4s.;
reading, writing, and arithmetic, 5s. The teacher has the legal
accommodations.
   The salary of the private teacher is L.25 annually, which is
paid by John McMurrich, Esq. of Stuckgoun, a gentleman to
whom the parish of Arrochar is under no common obligations.
The fees in this school are, reading, 2s. 6d.; reading and writing,
3s.; reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3s. 6d.; and Latin, 5s. per
quarter. Fees may amount annually to betwixt L.15 and L.20.
   There are no persons in the parish between the ages of six and
fifteen, that cannot read and write. There are three families to-
wards the head of the parish, whose children can neither be bene-
fited by the parochial nor private school.
   Literature.--There is a small parochial library. No Friendly
Societies, and no Savings Banks.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--Nine may be stated as the average
number of the poor. The largest sum given, and that to a pauper,
who is perfectly helpless, is L.15; the lowest, L. 1. Collections
for the poor average for several years, L.30. These, with in-
terest of money, L. 6, 6s., marriage and mortclotb dues of L. 2
per annum, have always proved sufficient for the support of the
poor. For repairs upon houses allotted to the poor, funeral ex-
penses, &c. the sum of L. 48, 6s. 2 1/2d. was distributed last year;
considerably the highest sum that was ever in one year expended
for the support of the poor. There have been some remarkable
instances of reluctance on the part of the poor to receive paro-
chial aid. The old church officer, who was for upwards of two
years confined to bed, had the utmost horror of coming upon the
poor's-box; and, from his salary being continued, from marriage
due, from the kindness of the benevolent, and from that disposi-


