
      310                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

      average number of communicants may be stated at 60.  The pro-
      bable average amount of church collections yearly for religious
      objects may be estimated at L. 20.  There is a Bible Society,
      which meets regularly once a quarter for prayer, and for the pur-
      pose of making contributions, and once in the year for the purpose
      of distributing its funds to the various objects of Christian bene.
      volence.
         Education.--There are two schools, the parochial, and one sup-
      ported by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.  The
      parish sbhoolmaster has the legal accommodation, and a salary of
      L. 32, 2s. 9 1/4d.  Sterling.  The school fees may amount to L. 12
      yearly.  The salary of the Society teacher is L. 18, with a house
      built by the parishioners.  His school fees may amount to L. 6
      annually.  The numbers who attend both schools during the year
      may amount to 160 children.  The expense of education, and the
      branches of instruction taught at the parochial school, are as fol-
      lows: reading per quarter, 2s. reading, writing, and arithmetic,
      2s. 6d. ; Latin and Greek, 5s. book-keeping, 7s. 6d. ; and Eng-
      lish grammar, 3s.  In the Society school, English reading, writ-
      ing, and arithmetic are regularly taught.  The people generally
      are able to read, and appear to appreciate the benefits of educa-
      tion.  There is no additional school necessary in this parish.
         Literature.--There is no parochial library, but many of the
      more respectable inhabitants are connected with a district library,
      which affords many valuable works.  And it would be difficult to
      find a rural parish in the north of Scotland, of the same dimen-
      sions, which contains a greater number of intelligent and well in-
      formed individuals, in the various classes of society.
         Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are from 80 to 100 who
      regularly receive parochial aid.  Their funds are derived from
      the following sources: mortcloth per annum, L. 2; rent of house
      in Tain belonging to the poor, which averages L. 15 annually;
      collections in church, which amount to L. 22 yearly, making in all
      L. 39.  There is likewise a mortification of barley by George,
      Earl of Cromarty, which produces 5 bolls annually, for distribu-
      tion among the poor; and there are other mortifications, amount-
      ing to L. 1, 3s., 10 1/2d. yearly.  There is no other mode adopted
      for procuring funds for the poor.  An assessment has never been re-
      sorted to.  The annual sums distributed to each pauper may ave-
      rage 5s. or 6s. in the year.  None but the extremely necessitous
      receive parochial aid, and others are dissuaded from seeking it,
                                      6


