
     Of Wigton.

alluding to the particular situation of the hill of Wigton,
which lies in a corner between the river of Bladenoch and
frith of Cree

   Situation, and Extent.-This parish is bounded by the
river Bladenoch, which separates it from the parish of
Kirkinner, on the S.; by a small rivulet and a morass,
dividing it from the parish of Penningham, on the W.
by the burn of the Causeway-end, otherwise called the
Bishop-burn, which runs between it and the last men-
tioned parish, on the N.; and by the bay of Wigton and
frith of Cree, on the E.  The figure is rather irregular,
as in some places it indents, and in other places is indent-
ed by the surrounding parishes; but, upon the whole, ap-
proaches most nearly to that of a long square.  The great-
est length, from E. to W., is between 5 and 6 English
miles; and the greatest breadth, from S. to N., almost 4
miles.  The contents, according to the most accurate con-
jecture, may amount to about 5500 acres*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Climate and Seasons.-The climate of this place, which is situated be-
tween the 34th and 55th degree of N. latitude, though certainly rather
cold, is not intemperate.  The gentle breezes which arise from the sea,
help to preserve the temperature of the air, and render the weather more
moderate than could otherwise be expected in so northern a situation.
Perhaps, the greatest defect of this climate, arising, no doubt, from the
proximity of the sea, is an inconstancy of weather, to which this place
is remarkably subject.  The purity of the air, as well as the state of the
weather, is affected by our insular situation.  Being frequently loaded
with vapours from the sea, it is at times damp and unwholesome; but as
it is often ventilated, and kept in motion by the wind, it is in general
pretty pure and healthful.  Besides these more general causes, there are
two or three local circumstances, by which the climate is here more par-
ticularly affected.  The stewartry hills, from their superior height, help
to cover this place from the N. and E. wind; the lesser hills, with which
the parish itself abounds, afford a shelter to the plains below them;


