
436                       RENFREWSHIRE.

confidence in their durability.*  A description and drawings of the
self-acting sluices would occupy too much space in a Statistical
Account; they may be found in "A Brief Account of the Shaw's
Water Scheme," printed at Greenock in 1829.  They are inge-
nious contrivances for economizing the water.  They indicate an
instiable avarice of water power.  While they continue to act,
none of it can go to waste; the wet weather of one week lays up
in store for the drought of another,--nay, the works and the me-
chanical contrivances connected with them, may be so enlarged,
that the abundance of one year may be made to provide against
the deficiency of the year following; to which we may add, that
so complete is the economizing system of Mr Thom, that not only
is the issue of water from the two principal reservoirs carefully re-
gulated, but the water is measured once more at the Overton re-
servoir, so that not a foot more or less that the 1200 cubic feet
per minute can issue to the manufactories below.
     In Mr Thom's report in 1824, he contemplated the construc-
tion of a reservoir, capable of containing only 200,000,000 of cubic
feet of water.  He, therefore, estimated the expense of the whole
works, exclusive of what might be paid for the ground, at L.16,000,
When the plan was finally adjusted, it was determined that the
great reservoir should contain 284,000,000 and, in addition to this,
it was found necessary to form the compensation reservoir for the
benefit of the mills on the Shaw's Water rivulet, and streams con-
nected with it.  It cannot therefore, be matter of suprise, that
the works already completed have cost, purchase of ground in-
cluded, the sum of L.51,000.  This sum includes also the whole
expense of providing the water for domestic purposes, aqueducts,
filters, pipes, &c. to be afterwards mentioned.  The subjoined list
of the falls already taken has been furnished by Mr John Thom,
the inspector of the works.  It will convey to the reader some idea
of the facility with which the company can modify or increase their
supply of power, so as to meet the wishes and objects of manufac-
turers.
     "Fall, No. 1.+ of 26 feet, or 47 horse power, possessed by Tas-
ker, Young, and Co. as a sugar-house.  Fall No. 2. of 24 feet, or
44 horses, possessed by Mackenzie and Walker, as flour and corn
mills.  Fall, No. 3. of 17 feet, or 31 horses, possessed by the

<FOOTNOTE>The embankment which broke out some years ago with such fatal consequences
to the inhabitans of Cartsdike, was not connected with the works of which we now
speak.
          The numbers are counted from the lowest fall.
                                            3




     
   

