
440                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

act of Parliament laying an yearly assessment upon the lands of the
different heritors according to their valued rent, and which the
tenants pay in lieu of the ordinary statute labour.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Before the Reformation, there were two
churches and two chapels in this parish. The principal church
of Ewesdale was dedicated to St Cuthbert, and stood on the west
side of the Ewes, near a hamlet called Kirktown of Nether Ewes.
Robert, the son of Radulph, the parson of St Cuthbert of Ewis-
dale, having sworn fealt to Edward I., obtained from him a pre-
cept to the sheriff of Dumfries for restoring him to his rights.
The other church was situated at Ewesduris, in the upper part
of the vale, where a pass leads into Teviotdale. From this pass
the termination of the name was derived; drws in the British
and duras in the Irish signifying a pass. One of these chapels
in Ewisdale stood at Unthank, and the other at Moss Paul, on
the south side of the valley where their ruins may still be seen.
	The advowson of the Overkirk of Ewes belonged in the reign
of James IV. to John Lindsay of Wauchope, who held the ten
pound lands of old extent in Ewesdale. By his forfeiture, in the
year 1505, the lands and patronage fell to the Crown, and were
granted to Alexander Lord Home; after whose forfeiture, in 1516,
they were granted to Robert Lord Maxwell, in the same year and
month.
	The Overkirk of Ewes was deserted after the Reformation, and
the kirk of Nether Ewes served the whole valley. The advowson
of the parish of Nether Ewes, with the tithes and church lands,
belonged to the Earls of Nithsdale, during the reigns of Charles II.
and of William. The patronage afterwards passed to the family
of Buccleuch, and the Duke is now patron. The church was
repaired in 1831; it may contain 200 sitters, and is very centri-
cal. The number of communicants hs 87. The manse and office-
houses wereput into excellent order, the same year. The glebe
contains 30 acres arable, and is well enclosed. The stipend is
15 chalders, half meal half barley payable at the highest fiar
prices of the county, with L. 6, 8s. 8d. communion elements.
No Dissenting meeting-house is in this parish, and the number
of Dissenters is only 14.
	Education.--There is only one parochial school, and the teach-
er has the maximum salary with the accommodation. The
branches of instruction taught are,  English, writing, arithmetic,
geography, Latin and Greek, French and mathematics. The


