
4                          LANARKSHIRE.

adjacent mosses, the dark colour of whose waters it retains, and
to that circumstance has probably been indebted for its name. It
is in general an insignificant stream, but is occasionally swelled by
copious rains into a powerful torrent. In summer, it is subject to
such decrease, as scarcely to be sufficient for supplying the nume-
rous mills erected upon its banks. Its course is irregular, westerly
in its direction, with a slight inclination to the south. After emerg-
ing from the rocks at Cleghorn, it finds a more expansive channel
through finely wooded banks, steep upon the south, and gently slop-
ing upon the northern side. On issuing from the Cartlane Craigs,
it pursues but a brief course before it falls into the Clyde, opposite
the village of Kirkfield-bank.
	Cartlane Craigs.--There are few specimens of rocky scenery in
the country to be compared with the Cleghorn, but more especially
the Cartlane Craigs. Even when seen from the walks which skirt
the summit of the precipice on either side, they present the most
romantic views of bold and lofty rocks, combined in endless va-
riety with wood and water. But the traveller who visits this spot
in summer, (at which season alone the passage by the bed of the
river is practicable,) and will submit to the toil of an occasional
scramble over rocks, will enjoy the highest gratification. At every
turn of the river, a new and varying scene of rocky grandeur,
heightened by the accompaniments of the stream, and a rich and
varied foliage, bursts upon the view. The popular tradition, that
a cave in this ravine once afforded a refuge to the patriot Sir Wil-
liam Wallace, gives additional interest to the scene. It also a few
years ago received a new ornament by the erection of a bridge,
which spans the chasm at its lower extremity, with three arches,
and whose Roman simplicity and elegance are in the finest keeping
with the scenery around.
	Clyde.--The Clyde is here a large and beautiful river. It ap-
proaches the parish from the east with a scarcely perceptible mo-
tion, after flowing through a long track of holm land, which, being
very little elevated above the bed of the stream, is liable occasion-
ally to be overflowed, and seems to have once formed the bottom
of an extensive lake, before the waters had worn their channel suffi-
ciently deep to drain it. It then takes a long sweep towards the south
and south-west with a more accelerated motion; the high grounds
advance on each side, and the channel becomes uneven and rocky.
But upon passing Hyndford Bridge, it assumes its former placid
aspect, and, receiving a considerable augmentation from  one of its


