
			     PARISH OF ELGIN.

		  PRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY.

		        THE REV. WILLIAM GORDON,
			                              MINISTERS
                        THE REV.  ALEXANDER WALKER,


           	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  	   Name.-IT appears from the chartulary of Moray that the name
	of this town and parish prior to the year 1226 was Elgyn or Hel.
   	gyn; and an old iron seal in the town's repositories, has this inscrip.
   	tion, engraven in Saxon characters, in a style supposed to be earlier
   	than that of the middle of the 16th century,-" S. COMMUNE CIVI-
	TATIS DE HELGYN." A variety of etymologies have been given of
	the name, but the most probable derives it from Helgy, General of
	the army of Sigurd, the Norwegian Earl of Orkney, who conquer-
	ed Caithness, Sutherland, Ross, and Moray, about the beginning
	of the tenth century.*  This general, it is said, built a town in
	the southern part of Moray, which most probably was Elgin, as it
	is situated about eight miles south east of Burghead, where the
	Norwegians had a small fort and harbour for their shipping.+
	  Extent, &c.-The parish of Elgin is inland, and extremely irre-
	gular in its figure.  With the exception of that, part of the parish
	lying westward of the Lossie, and containing the vales of Pluscar-
	den and Mosstowie, which are separated by a stel-? !hilly ridgey it
	has a gentle acclivity from the town on the northern extremity,
	to the base of the Blackhills, the summit of which is its southern
	boundary. We are not perhaps far from the truth estimating
	the superficial extent at 18 square miles.  The town stands on
	the south bank of the Lossie, on ground sloping a little to the. north,
	and its length is greatly disproportionate to its breadth, the high
	street being nearly three quarters of a mile Iong.  The bulk of the
	population have their dwellings in closes or alleys , opening at a right
	angle to the principal street.  olden times, the river ran by the
	gardens which generally terminated these alleys to the north, but
	a field of fifty or sixty acres of haugh land, partly in the parish of

       <FOOTNOTE>Vide former Statistical Account  Rerum Orcad. Hist. a Thorm Torfee.
	 ELGIN.                                A


