
                          INVERNESS-SHIRE.

nerally of medium incomes, has taken place to this district of late
years.
   We have been unable to procure data for ascertaining the pro
portions of bachelors, widowers, and unmarried females, in this
densely peopled parish. Among the labouring classes marriage is
almost a. matter of pecuniary convenience; for a man in narrow cir-
cumstances finds it more economical to marry than to keep a ser-
vant, and, if a widower with daughters, it is seldom the case that
they choose to live long with him, as they are better fed and cloth-
ed by going into service, or marrying for themselves, so that second
and even third marriages by the same individual are not unconi-
mon. The average number of children in each family is about
4, and, from the emigration of males abroad in quest of occupa-
tions, and their fondness for a military life, there is, and it is
thought there always has been, a considerable excess of females
resident in this parish. Indeed, from Dr Cleland's population re-
ports for Scotland, it would appear that when the census of 1821
was taken, the proportion offemales above males was higher in In-
verness than in any other town in the country, excepting Greenock.
At that time there were in Inverness, 7001 females, and 5263 males,
and if we suppose that, under the age of twenty, the sexes were equal,
which the county returns prove them on the whole to have been,
there would be then in the burgh under twenty years of age, 3500 fe-
males, and 3500 males; leaving above twenty years of age, 3500 fe-
niales,andlMniales. Now,ifone-thirdofthemalesabovetwenty
be held as unmarried, which is a rather large proportion, and two-
thirds to be married, (that is 588 of the former class, and 1 175
males of the latter,) their will remain 2325 females above the age
of twent y unmarried, to 588 males above that age unmarried,--a
proportion ' nearly of 4 to 1! A similar result will be found appli-
cable both to Greenock and Inverness, if the previous returns for
1801 and 1811 be similarly scrutinized.
   Language, Customs, &c.-In the remoter parts of the parish, and
by some of the poorer classes in town, the Gaelic language is exclu-
sively spoken, but it is fast wearing out, and by the rising generation
English is almost universally preferred, especially in the town of In-
verness, where many of them are wholly ignorant of Gaelic. There
is nothing remarkable in the features or bodily strength or exercises
of a the inhabitants; and, although the games of football, shintie,
throwing the stone, hammer, and bowls, were formerly common
among the lower orders, no amusements of the sort are now prac-


