
                      WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                815

name of Bailzie or Baillie, was purchased by the late Lord
Douglas only about sixty-five years ago.
   The barony of Lammingtoune, being by the deed of entail
destined to heirs general, was in the course of the last century held
by no fewer than three females, who, Carrying into other wealthy
families, gave occasion to the old castle or mansion-house being
left deserted, and the estate being generally much neglected.  The
last of these heiresses of Lammingtoune was Elizabeth, eldest
daughter of the late Lord President Dundas, who married Sir John
Lockhart Ross of Balnagown.  Lady Ross Baillie died in 1817,
and was interred in the kirk of Lammingtoune, where, opposite to
the pulpit, a marble monument infixed in the wall, is inscribed to
her memory,-a plain white panneled tablet and urn, upon a black
ground.  Her son, Sir Charles Ross, had a daughter, Matilda,
by his first marriage, who married Sir Thomas Cochrane, R. N.,
and she dying, her eldest son, now Alexander Cochrane Baillie,
Esq. succeeded, in right of his mother, to the estate of Lamming-
toune, last held by his great-grandmother, Lady Ross Baillie, as
above noticed.  The chief of the  Baillies, however, does not ap-
pear to have all along been the sole proprietor of what, at the pre-
sent day, is known as the lands and barony of Lammingtoune.  On
the contrary, a part of it was sold by Sir William Baillie, in 1611,
to a person named John Donaldson.  These lands were what is
termed " Run-rig lands" lying up and down, and interspersed in
ridges or small allotments over the estate.  The late Lady Ross
Baillie repurchased these lands, known as theDonaldson or Connal
lands, from Alexander Connal, great-grandson of John Donald-
son, in 1772; since which, they have merged so completely into
the general property, that all traces of their localities or original
boundaries have been lost.  Tradition, however, says, they con-
sisted of 41 every ninth step and tree, bill and dale of the lands
and barony of Lammingtoune." I have seen a precept of clare con-
stat of these lands to John Donaldson, of date 1684.
   Besides this Donaldson family, however it appears from the Ses-
sion Records, that there were, in the seventeenth century, other pro-
prietors in Lammingtoune interior to the " Laird." Thus, we find,
" April 12th 1658," upon  " ane supplication by Thomas Ballie of
Touneheid of Lammingtoune, for leave to set up ane seat next unto
the minister his seat," the session having " removed" the petitioner,
" and taken his desyre into yr consideratione" at last " allows and
gives is request to the said Thomas Baillie, being ane heritour with-


