
                            KIRLISTON.                         135

falls into the Frith of Forth, at that village.  Its bed is  broad,
and in many parts rocky; its depth varies considerably.  After
rainy weather, especially with a strong south-west wind, it overflows
its banks frequently to a great extent, and, in consequence of this,
large tracts of valuable land in this parish, on both sides, were of-
ten much injured.
   As a remedy for this evil, very strong and high embankments
have lately been raised, at a great expense, by the proprietors of
the lands along its margin, and by the trustees of the Edinburgh
and Linlithgow turnpike road, and the river may now be said to
be kept within limits.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The minerals in this parish are re-
ferable to the secondary and alluvial classes.  The secondary
rocks, which belong to the carboniferous system, are chiefly sand-
stone, limestone, and trap or whinston.  No coal has been met
with, although some of the coal metals, as ironstone and bitumi-
nous shale or blaes, occurk.  The strata dip to the north and north-
west, and vary in thickness.
   In some parts of the parish, a bastard limestone occurs, of no
value as lime, and very unkindly to the mason's tools, but furnish-
ing a useful stone for building.
   Many trials have been made for coal to a great depth, but with-
out success.  It is supposed, however, that there must be coal, al-
though lying too deep for being wrought,--as ironstone and bitu-
minous shale or blaes occur in abundance, under a bed of rock,
in quality and thickness similar to that over the coal at Borro-
stowness, and called the roof.
   The only alluvial deposits are to be found on the sides of the
Almond, which consist chiefly of gravel, sand, and loam.  Through-
out the parish, soils of different kinds are to be found.  But it
may be said that the prevailing soil varies from a strong clay to
a rich black mould.
   Zoology.-Under this head, it may be stated, that when the line
of the Union Canal was dug through the estate of Clinton Hall,
about twenty years ago, a tusk of a Mammoth was found, nearly five
feet long, about twenty-five feet under the surface of the ground,
firmly imbedded in blue till, or tilly clay, in good preservation.  A
description and figure of this very interesting specimen will be found
in the Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural History Society.
   Botany.-The following list of rare plants growing in the pa-



