
                          DOLLAR.                           91

the unexpanded blossoms of the pear. It is not very comnion in
the gardens, but is plentiful on the hawthorn and other trees. The
same remarks apply for its destruction as in the preceding.
   Yponamenta padella.--The larvae of this insect are very injuri-
ous to the apple tree, sometimes disleafing every branch. It does
not frequently appear here, but is too common in many other parts.
The most efficacious method to destroy it, is to pick the webs and
insects off with the hand, as soon as they appear.
   Phalcena pomonella, P. grossularia, and P. vavaria.--The
caterpillars of these three moths almost yearly commit great ra-
vages on the leaves of the respective trees   they inhabit. Va-
rious means are employed to destroy them, but the most effectual
is to pick them with the hand.
   Nematus Ribesii, gooseberry fly.--The caterpillar of this fly
also does considerable injury to the leaves of the gooseberry tree,
and can only be subdued by picking.
   Lampronia capitella.--The larvae of this insect enter the points
of the young shoots on the currant tree, eating their way down-
wards : thus destroying the young wood. This insect does not
confine its depredations to the currant	alone ; the tender shoots
of many other shrubs are injured by it.	Its progress can only be
arrested bv removing the injured parts.
    Aphis cerasi, black fly.--Infesting	the young shoots of the
cherry tree ; very common.
   The green fly, a species of Aphis, is the pest of all fruit-
trees, and of almost every other plant ; appealing on the tender
points in considerable numbers. This and the preceding are
easily destroyed, by washing the trees with tobacco water, or fu-
migation with the same material.
   Vespa vulgaris, the Wasp ; and Formicula auriculata, the
earwig, destroy pulpy fruits. The first may be taken in quantities
by a common bottle half-filled with water and sugar; the latter, by
tubes of tin, or even piece s of hollow bean-.straw placed near their
haunts.
  Birds.--In the parish of Dollar, besides its due portion of the
more common birds, there are several very rare ones, such as

Parus palustris		Motacilla regulus	Loxia pyrrhula
      ater		Rallus aquaticus	Fringilia carduelis
      caudatus		Loxia curvirostra	Alcedo ispida

   Of the Falco order that occasionally appear in and near the vil-
lage, we have seen the following:

  Falco Tinnunculus      F. cyaneus    P. Esaloii    F. nisus


