
	               KILMARNOCK.                   547

Grace the Duke of Portland. Since that time the practice
has been followed, as far as the supply of tiles would admit; be-
sides 800,000 made yearly in the parish, about 500,000 are im-
ported from the Moorfield tile-works in the immediate neighbour-
hood. About a third of the parish has already undergone this
improving process,--by which an addition of about L. 500 has
been made to the rental; and what were formerly the worst and
most unproductive fields, now yield the best crops. The plan
followed by His Grace is as follows: he prepares the tiles, and
puts them into the ground. The farmer drives and lays them
out, providing straw, if required, which is the case in stubble
or fallow land. The drains are generally placed about 18 feet
apart, and in clay land are cut to the depth of 18 inches. Where
the bottom of the drain is soft or the land steep, soles are put un-
der the tiles to prevent them from sinking or losing their regu-
larity; when the field is 250 or 300 yards in length, a main drain
is drawn through the middle of it, to prevent the drain from be-
coming choked, and the same thing is done in cases where hol-
lows intervene. A main drain is also drawn across the end of the
field, to receive the waters from the furrow drains. These main
conductors are about 2 feet deep, considerably wider than the com-
mon drains and the tiles always rest on flat soles. For the im-
provement of land and consequent increase of produce hereby
caused, the farmer pays His Grace 5s. per Scotch acre. In some
instances, Other proprietors follow the same plan; in others, the
tenant is allowed to purchase the tiles at prime cost, and bear all
the expense of putting them in. The disadvantages of this latter
mode are obvious; in many cases, a farmer doeos not think it pro-
per to lay out such a sum on land which may ere long pass into
the hands of another; and frequently, though willing, he does not
possess the necessary capital,--upwards of L. 500 being required
to drain a farm consisting of 100 acres. All encouragement should
be given to this mode of fertilizing the soil, the best which has
been practised for a century; and that encouragement, we con-
ceive, may be best and most judiciously bestowed, by adopting the
plan folio, by His Grace the Duke of Portland.
	Leases generally extend to eighteen years. Until the introduc-
tion of the present mode of regulating the rent by the prices of
grain, the longest lease was the best for the tenant. The im-
provements of trade naturally increased the population, and a con-
sequent increased demand was made on the farmer. The gradual


