
                            PAISLEY.                            273

ed silks were got from London or Edinburgh; now, silks of the
finest kinds, and all sorts, of cloth, may be dyed equally well at
Paisley.
   In a register of inventions and improvements, the name, of Mr
Andrew Balderston deserves to be recorded with honour.  This
meritorious individual, though not a native of Paisley, has resided
in it for twenty-four years.  He was born at Dunfermline and be-
fore he left it he had, in his capacity as a damask weaver, invent-
ed the most approved method of flower lashing.  A Paisley ma-
nufacturer (Mr James Taylor) encouraged him to apply his in-
vention to the ordinary fancy trade, and it has succeeded to a wish.
Formerly one man was employed to read the, flower; a second to
take it down ; and a third to lash it on.  Now all these operations
are done by one and at once.  The system thus introduced by Mr
Balderston has been universally approved and adopted by the
trade.  Mr Balderston has also distinguished himself as the in-
ventor of the " cutting machine," used in preparing the weft for
Cheneille shawls, a simple and beautiful piece of machinery. For
this he took out a patent; but it has done him little good in a
pecuniary point of view-the invention having been so frequently
pirated.  Our ingenious operatives would require " a patent-pro-
tecting association."
   Cotton-Spinning.-The first cotton-mill in Renfrewshire, and the
second in Scotland, was erected on the borders of this parish, at Dove-
cothall, near Barhead, in the parish of Neilston; but the first extensive
establishment of the kind in the county was erected at Jobnston,
in 1782.  These erections were soon followed by others on a large
scale in different parts of the district, and particularly in the pa-
rishes of Neilston and Pollock, or Eastwood.  Cotton-spinning com-
menced in the town of Paisley, soon after steam power began to be
applied to machinery for that department of manufacture. *  The lo-
cality, however, has not been found favourable to the increase of this
great branch of our national trade; chiefly owing to the high price of
fuel, and the expense of conveying the raw material from, and the
manufactured article to, Glasgow.  It is a remarkable fact, however,
and highly characteristic of the enterprising spirit of the inhabi-
tants, that, notwithstanding these obstacles, Paisley contained, in

<FOOTNOTE>Even prior to this era, there were mills on the principle of hand jennies; and
others that were driven by oxen.  The father of the present M. P. for Paisley was
proprietor of one of the former of these, along with his partner Mr Davidson.


