
52                   PEEBLES-SHIRE.

ren; and 8 orphans and illegitimate children, deserted by one or
both parents.  On an average, the old people receive for house
rent, medical attendance, and maintenance, 2s. 6d. per week, or
L. 6,10s. per annum ; and the children about half of this sum,
exclusive of the expense of their education, which has amounted
for some years past, along with that of others not on the poors'
roll, to nearly L.10 per annum.
   The funds by which this expense is defrayed consist of four
different kinds.  1st, Interest of mortified money, amounting to
about L. 8. 2d, Collections in the church, averaging about L. 18.
3d, A voluntary offering made by the heritors for fully fifty years
past, and instituted long before any regular assessment was impos-
ed , of L. 6.   And 4th, An assessment borne in equal parts by
both heritors and tenants of land.  We do not take into account
church dues, arising from the use of mortcloth, for these are, very
seldom paid ; and no fines for church censures are  ever exacted.
The regular assessment has been in operation since the beginning
of the present century, and was commenced during the great sear-
city and dearth of these days.   For the last fifteen years it has
amounted to L. 77 per annual on an average, so that not less than
L. 100 or L.110 a year are regular spent in this parish on the
support he poor; altogether exclusive of the private charity of
families in this parish, and of individuals connected with it.  The            'I'lie
effect of the assessments is undoubtedly to impair that old Scot-                  that ol(I Scot-
tish, spirit which considered the seeking of parochial relief as de-
grading.  It ought to be stated, that it is the labourers in the
parish, not the artisans, ploughmen, or shepherds that expect
a share of these charities; as a proof of the advantage of having                        that exl)ecl
a fixed employment on which to depend for the means of sub-
sistence.
   Alehouses.-There are two inus or alchouses in "the parishen."
We cannot report that these have been sensibly injurious to the
morals of the population.
   Fuel.-The great scarcity and consequent expense of this article
is the greatest disadvantage under which this parish lies.  Till                    Till
within these few years, coal from the county of Mid-Lothian cost
here Is. 6d. per cwt., or L. 1, 10s. per ton, a price which was at-
tended with great distress to the poorer classes.  By the new line
of road now making in the county of Edinburgh, in continuation of
that lately made from the Tweed i,lotig the banks of the Leithen,


