
                             KIRKMAHOE.				55

 resting on water.  The banks of the Nith, at the fords, are covered
 with heaps of small stones of almost every shape and colour.  Some
 of them are curiously marked with straight, some with curved lines,
 some with spots of various hues, and some are graced with red cir-
 cles.  Many are of a soft and snowy whiteness, and not a few of
 a creamy paleness.  These two last kinds appear to be peculiar
 to the valley rivers, and are not to be found in our mountain
 streams,--at least of such fine grain and quality.  The strath and
 the rising ground, also, from the river to the very tops of the dis-
 tant eminences, are full of pebbles and rolling-stones, evidently
 smoothed and rounded by attrition; and here and there specimens
 of farcilite or pudding-stone may be observed, and small stones
 embodied with larger ones.  The Nith, it would appear, at differ-
 ent periods, and by different tracts respectively, has run through
 all these undulating grounds before it sunk, in the lapse of centu-
 ries, to its now lowly bed, or before they rose to their present va-
 rious heights.  But by what instrumental agency was this depres-
 sion, or this elevation, effected?  The fresh water of our streams,
 and the briny surges of the Solway, may have been at work "in
 old dusky time," with the aid of some electric or elastic auxiliaries,
 (some subterranean fires, or submarine springs?) forming those
 high and hollow places which now exhibit the appearance of a
 swelling sea, converted into grass and corn-fields.
 	Botany.--Under this head there is nothing peculiar to the pa-
 rish ; but it may be mentioned, that we have many plantations, less
 or more extensive; and we have, in various places, a great number
 of beautiful trees, some of which stand in social clumps, and others
 in solitary state, on the lands of Dalswinton, Carnsalloch, Miln-
 head, Carzield, Kemyshall, Whitehall, Netherhall, Auchencairn,
 Glenmaid; and in other parts of the parish there are planta-
 tions of various sorts of timber; and new plantations are rising
 on every hand. The prospect is thus finely diversified, and the
 grounds exhibit a rich and sheltered appearance.  At Dalswinton
 there are many stately Scots elms, some in graceful ranks, and
 some in no less agreeable confusion while others stand majes-
 tically alone. There are also here fine beeches, some of which
 measure above twelve feet in circumference at the height of four
 feet.  A noble ash stands here also, measuring 21 feet in cir-
 cumterence, and containing 300 feet of solid timber.  In one of
 the parks there is a gigantic oak, under the protection of whose
 knotted arms, it has been said that 1000 armed men might


