
122                       BERWICKSHIRE.

rish; Dunse, which is five miles distant, is the nearest. There
is no village, nor post-office, nor inn, nor public-house of any kind.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parishes of Bunkle and Preston, ori-
ginally separate charges, were about 120 years ago united as one
cure, and for several years after this union public worship was per-
formed in each alternately. This continued for several years; but
both churches coming to need repair, that of Bunkle being most
centrical, was sufficiently fitted up to accommodate the whole po-
pulation, and the other left in a ruinous state. The church of
Bunkle was rebuilt in 1820. It is a plain and neat edifice, built
on the old site, at the southern base of the Lammermoor hills, ca-
pable of containing 400 sitters, which is more than the half of the
entire population. The manse, which is close by the church, was
built at three different periods; the oldest part in 1718. It was
enlarged in 1764,-and a farther addition was made in 1801.
The situation is somewhat remote, there being no other habitation
in the immediate vicinity. The glebe consists of forty-four acres,
all arable, worth about L. 40 per annum. The stipend since last
augmentation in 1821 is sixteen chalders, half-meal half-barley,
payable in money, at the rate of the fiars prices of the county. In
this is included nearly L. 28 of money, not affected by the price of
grain, one of the heritors having surrendered his teinds. On an
average of the last seven years, the stipend has been L. 240 Ster-
ling, besides L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. The living is
in the gift of Lord Douglas.
   There is no dissenting place of worship in this parish, but a
number of families, amounting to about 50, have been for many
years in the practice of going to dissenting houses in Dunse. The
church is well attended, as by far the greater number, and nearly
all the respectable families, come to the parish church. The ave-
rage number of communicants is about 230.
   Education.-The parochial school-house, which is the only one
in the parish, was lately rebuilt. It is neat and commodious
enough, and has a good garden attached to it. The usual branches
are taught; the salary is the maximum; and the school fees are
moderate. The schoolmaster's income, including the emoluments
arising from the offices of session-clerk and heritor's clerk, may
amount to upwards of L. 70 per annum.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The collections in the church are
inconsiderable, scarcely adequate to pay the church-officers, viz.
the precentor, session-clerk, and beadle, &c. They may amount
                                 3


