
386                         FORfARSHIRE.

	. It cannot be said that we have any variety of birds or quadru-
peds peculiar to this district.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The only heritors of the parish are, Henry Bax-
ter, Esq. of Idvies;  *Thomas Gardyne, Esq. of Middleton; +
Alexander Lyell, Esq. of Gardyne; James Mudie, Esq. of Pit-
muies; and John Watt, Esq. of Kinneries.  The second and
third mentioned gentlemen are natives of the parish and dwell
here; the fourth also resides in it; and the first did so occasion-
ally, at a handsome cottage erected on his estate.
	Parochial Registers.--A register of parochial matters, from the
year 1650 to 1690, after having been lost for a long while, was
accidentallx discovered by the predecessor of the present incum-
bent; one of the leaves having been casually sent from a shop in
the neighbourhood.  From the latter date to 1735, no records are
known to exist; but they have since been regularly preserved to
the present time.
	Antiquities.--Opposite the mansion-house of Pitmuies, close by
the turnpike road, there is an obelisk which has obviously been
shortened by violence, or the abrasive influence of time, but is yet
five feet high, with some mutilated hieroglyphics on it.  It is nich-
ed into a large stone, and is supposed to have been erected in the
year 1010, by Malcolm II. upon the defeat of the Danes.  About
fifty years ago, a tumulus was opened in the immediate vicinity of
the stone in question, and several urns containing ashes of the
dead were discovered;  and in the plain adjoining, nearly a score
of stone coffins, placed literally, were dug up, each containing an
entire human skeleton.  Stone coffins were recently discovered in
the farm of Bractullo, containing human bones, with strings of
beads apparently made of charred wood.
	There are, in the parish, two artificial mounds of a conical fi-
gure termed laws, from the circumstance of criminals having been
executed there during the feudal times.    Both are at present
beautifully ornamented with trees.  One of them named Bracttllo
(Bractie law) is on the estate of ldvies; the other, called the Gal-
laws-hill, is on the lands of Gardyne.
	Ancient Buildings--The Castle of Gardyne is a very fine spe-
cimen of an old baronial residence, resembling in its style of ar-

         * Mr Baxter having lately  died, his affairs are conducted by his trustees, in be-
heof his two daughters.
         + Mr. Gardyne died January 1841, leaving his nephew, Major William Bruce, who
has assumed the surname of Gardyne, heir to his landed property.



