
40                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

Culairdo (Cul-ard-dhu) the back of the black height; Sheils,
(Shealing.) a temporary house still common in some parts of the
Highlands, erected for the dairymaid and herds, when the cows
were sent to pasture at a distance from the farm-stead for some
lonths in summer. Hence the expressive Scottish name for a
house not very wind nor water tight, a cauld sheil. Indeed, the
Gaelic language, though long since banished to the Highland
glens and mountains of the west of Scotland, was the court lan-
guage in the reign of Malcolm III. who died 1093, and spoken
in a parliament held at Ardchattan in the reign of Robert (Bruce)
I., who died 1329.
   On the hill of Garvock, close by the stance of the annual fair,
there is an oblong cairn, neatly surrounded by an edging of turf,
which, tradition says, marks the graves of two merchants who quar-
relled, fought and killed one another, and were buried in the spot
where they fell upwards of a century ago. There are likewise, on
the very top of this hill, in one or two places, now quite covered
with heath, small fields which had been under the cultivation of
the plough, and that for a considerable length of time, the ridges
being raised high by the old plan of constant gathering. This may,
however, have been when the lower grounds were covered with wood
and marshes.
   There is no manufactory in the parish, and only one meal mill,
which is situated on the water of Bervie, at the N. E. point of the
parish.

                          III.--POPULATION.
   When this parish was a forest or hunting-park, its population,
if any, must have been slall. The earliest census on record is
that ascertained by Dr Webster, when preparing his calculations
for the Widows' Scheme of the Church of Scotland in 1755. From
that time, the population has stood as follows.


<TABLE=Population>
		In the year 1755, the population was 755
		            1791,                    460
		            1901,                    468
                            1811,                    485
                            1821,                    450
                            1831,                    473
   The great decrease of 28 seems to be chiefly owing to two
causes: First, the throwing of two or more small farms into one.
Secondly, the great farmers banishing their cottars, by taking from
them their little croft and cow. But the want of these cottars
is now often felt in the time of turnip-hoeing, and in bay and
grain harvest, there being no town nor village in this parish ; and
several farmers again erecting cottages for their married servants,


