
100                          AYRSHIRE.

south end of the parish, on the north bank of the river Ayr, and
has scarcely any visible line of demarcation from Wallacetown.
As respects the means of communication, it has all the advantages
enjoyed by the county town, of which it may be regarded as a
suburb. The mail and other coaches to Glasgow pass and repass
daily. There is also a coach for Edinburgh, which passes daily.
through the parish; besides which there are regular conveyances
to Kilmarnock, Troon, and Irvine. There is only one turnpike
road in the parish, which is a mile and a-half in length. There
is also a rail-road, made about twenty years ago, along which, coals
are conveyed from the mines to the harbour.
	The harbour has lately been much improved; but, from a defi-
ciency of funds, the improvements begun on the north side of the
river have not yet been completed. A light-house was first erect-
ed in 1790, by the company who rented the coal belonging to the
community of Newton, on the north-east side of the harbour. But,
as it was swept away by the encroachments of the sea, a wooden
structure was erected in its place in 1827, which, though wanting
in the recommendation of elegance, unquestionably possesses that
of utility.
        Ecclesiastical State.-Newton was originally part of the united
parishes of Monkton and Prestwick; but the inhabitants being
four miles distant from the parish church, where they had only ac-
commodation for twelve or fourteen out of a population of between
700 and 800 examinable persons, a large amount of the common
fund which fell to be divided among the freemen, was, in 1776, ge-
nerously set apart by them for building a place of worship within
the burgh. It was at first established in 1778, on the footing of
a chapel of ease; but, in 1779, a decreet of disjunction and erection
was obtained from the Court of Teinds, by which the burgh with
its territory was constituted a separate parish. By that decreet,
the whole teinds of the lands belonging to the freemen were re-
served to the minister of the original parish; and an obligation
was laid on them and their successors to uphold and repair the
church of Newton, and provide a suitable stipend for the minister,
besides a manse and glebe. It does honour to the liberality of
the freemen-who are the only heritors in the parish-that, at a
time when their own resources were but small, they voluntarily
came under these obligations,-expending in the erection of the
churh and manse about L. 2000. And although the burgh was
thereby brought to the brink of bankruptcy, they were ultimately


