
138			WIGTONSHIRE.

flammeus) is not rare, and remains all year. The European goat-
sucker (Caprimulgus Europaeus) breeds, but is rare, and does not
remain during the year. The raven, carrion-crow, blackbird,
common thrush, and magpie, are found much as in other districts,
at all seasons, the missel-thrush in harvest, and the rook not so
common. The common lapwing and the green plover (Chara-
drius pluvialis) are not rare. In the woods the common creeper
(Certhia familiaris) will frequently attract notice. Of other
small birds the variety is considerable, but the numbers are not great.
	Ichthyology.--The common trout, of rather small size, but
very superior flavour, and the common eel, are the only fish that
inhabit the small streams. Of the sea-fish, those commonly brought
ashore by the fishermen are the common cod, ling, conger-eel,
pollack, (here called lythe,) coal-fish (here called blockin,) grey
and red gurnard, the three-bearded gade, flounder, thorn-back,
skate, turbot occasionally, and the common dog-fish, abundantly
used as bait for the baskets in which the buckies (Buccinum un-
datum) are caught for baiting the cod lines. Whitings are rarely
taken, and the haddock which, in the remembrance of the present
fishermen, was most abundant, seems to have abandoned the coast
entirely. The cook (Lubrus coquus) and the saury (Scomberesox
saurus) have been caught. The following are given as inhabi-
tants of this shore on the authority of W. Thompson, Esq. of Bel-
fast, who has specimens in his possession: Liparis Montagui,
Leptocephalus Morrisii, and the doubly-spotted goby, (Gobius bi-
punctatus, of Yarrell.)
	Reptiles.--The lizard (Lacerta agilis,) and the blind-worm
(Anguis fragilis) are not uncommon in this parish. The com-
mon viper or adder (Vipera communis) abounds in some of the
uncultivated parts of the parish. There is no scarcity of the dif-
ferent sorts of the eft(Triton.) The common frog and the toad
are here much in the same abundance as in other districts not
remarkably swampy.
	The glow-worm is found plentifully in the glen north of the
town. Of eight species of Helix found in this parish, the H.
trochilus may be remarked as rare, and the H. nemoralis and
H. aspersa as unusually abundant near the coast. The latter
used to be gathered in large baskets as bait for cod-fish before re-
course was had to the shell-fish so abundantly supplied by the
channel. Along the cost the Pupa muscorum, Balea perversa,
and Clausilia perversa, are also very abundant.


