
			HOLYWOOD.                       557

Young, Esq. of Guilyhill; Captain Charles James Johnston, R.
N. of Cowhill; Francis Maxwell, Esq. of Gribton; Miss Gilchrist
of Newtonairds; the heirs of the late Dr John Gilchrist of Sped-
doch; Thomas Corrie, Esq. of Stielston; and Alexander Harley
Maxwell, Esq. of Portract.
   The number of proprietors of land having L. 50 and upwards of
yearly rent, resident and non-resident, is 23. In all, there are 37
heritors, 17 of whom are non-resident,--a circumstance decidedly
disadvantageous to land improvement, and to the interests of the
parochial poor.
   Parochial Registers.--The earliest register of baptisms, mar-
riages, collections, and disbursements, is of date 30th December
1687. The register appears entire till 8th May 1697. It com-
mences again 9th February 1725, and continues, except a few years
after 1806, entire to the present time. It is evident, from the register
of 1688, when many of the principal parishioners made confession,
and were publicly rebuked for their sin of having taken the test, *
that the people of this parish were decidedly attached to the church,
as their posterity have continued to this day; and therefore there
has existed no feeling hostile to the registration of baptisms and
marriages.
   Patronage.--The Earls of Nithsdale held the right of patronage
of Irongray, Terregles, Kirkgunzeon, Holywood, and Ruthwell.
William, Earl of Nithsdale, sold the patronage of Holywood to
Alexander Ferguson of Isle in Kirkmahoe, advocate, in 1714. Ro-
bert, his son, was served and retoured heir to his father, and was
the next patron. It was sold by him to Robert Fergusson of Four-
markland in this parish. In 1724, Mrs Beveridge, spouse of the
Rev. Andrew Beveridge, minister of Caerlaverock, was patroness
in 1771. Her son, Robert, succeeded. His sister married the
Rev. James M'Millan, minister of Torthorwald, and proprietor of
the foresaid lands of Fourmerkland; and their daughter, Ann, re-
lict of Dr James Crichton, minister of Holywood, succeeded to
the patronage,--by whom the present incumbent was presented.
John Crichton, Esq. of Skeoch, purchased it in 1823, for L. 750,
and his relict is now patroness.
   Eminent Men.--Joannes de Sacro Bosco, it has often been sup-
posed, was a native of Holywood. This, however, is not the fact.

<FOOTNOTE>That is, the Sacrament, in the Episcopal form, as a token or test of submission
in the then tyrannical powers. Such state tricks are revolting to the spiritual genius
of Christianity.


