
                          KILCHOMAN.                        653

led to the neglect of field labour, and to the destruction of the
social virtues.

<TABLE=.INDUSTRY>       IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Extent of Kilchoman parish in imperial standard acres, as nearly as it has been
ascertained, is                                 50,000
	Cultivated,				 4,500
	That may be cultivated,			20,000
	Wood, 				            20
	In pasture,				25,480
                                                -------
                                                50,000

   The average rent of arable land is about 11s. per acre; grazing
of a cow for the year, 40s.; and of a sheep, 3s.
   Male farm-servants are paid at from L.8 to L.10, with food and
lodging; or, in lieu of these, an allowance in meal, potatoes, milk,
or the keep of a cow, and a house and fuel. Female servants are
paid at from L.3 to L.6 per annum.
    In spring, summer, and autumn, day-labourers are paid from
1s. 2d. to 1s. 4d., in winter, 1s.  In winter, work is generally done
by contract, and at prices which enable an expert labourer to
earn from 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d.  Carpenters and masons are paid
from 2s. to 2s. 6d.
    Live-Stock.-- The cattle are chiefly of the West Highland
breed.  Great attention has been paid to this description of stock
by the proprietors, and by several of the tenants.  Various means
are being used for effecting this purpose, such as selecting the
best bulls, raising green food for winter keep, and improving the
herbage on the pastures by draining, ditching, and inclosing. A
good deal has been done in these respects; but in comparison of
what may be done, such improvements may be said to be only in
their infancy. So far as draining and fencing have been carried
into effect, the produce has, in many instances, been more than
doubled; and where the land is generally so wet, and in so humid
a climate, a vast extent of moss and of unproductive marshes may
be made available for feeding stock. The stock in the possession
of the small tenants is of a very inferior description. It has
greatly deteriorated of late years,-the partial failure of the pota-
toes had greatly diminished the quantity and quality of their food
in winter, and the limited sales which they were able to make
during the low rate of the markets, compelled them to dispose of
the best of their young stock to meet their augmented rental;
this produced a pernicious effect upon their stock, and a ruinous
one upon their means.
  The sheep kept, with the exception of one or two lots of the


