
                               GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

                              ON THE COUNTY OF ELGIN.

    THE ancient province of Moray extended from the mouth of
the river Spey on the east, to the river Beauly on the west. A
line, stretching from Loch Lochy on the south-west, through
Lochaber, and following nearly the course of the river Spey, along
the base of Cairngorum and Benrinnes, formed its southern boun-
dary, while the Moray Frith terminated it on the north, and sepa-
rated it from the peninsula of Ross. Moray thus included the
whole district of country stretching along the sea-coast; and hence
probably the Gaelic derivation of the name Murar or Morar, the
sea-side, from Mor, the sea, and Taobh or Tav, the side.
   The present boundaries of the country are much more circum-
scribed,-Nairnshire, occupying the western, and part of Inverness-
shire the south and south-western portions of the ancient province.
The greatest length from north to south is about forty miles, and
its breadth varies from eight to fifteen and twenty-three miles. The
northern range of the Grampian mountains, terminating in Ben-
rinnes, which has an elevation of 2300 feet, forms the southern
boudary and most elevated part of this county, from whence there
is a gradual descent to the sea level by a series of parallel hills in-
tersecting the county from west to east, and valleys between. The
hills to the south consist of granite, gneiss, mica-slate, quartz rock,
and taloose schist. Within about eight miles of the sea, these pri-
mary strata are succeeded by the lower and middle beds of the old
red sandstone, containing abundant remains of fishes; and to these
beds succeed the upper yellow sandstone of the same formation,
with subordinate bands of a nonfossiliferous limestone. Small
patches of the  lower oolite and lies are also found near Lhan-
bryde and in the Parish of Duffus, containing numerous bivalve
shells; and at Linksfield is a fresh-water bed of limestone, analo-
gous to the English Wealden, with remains of fishes, molluscous
animals, and Saurian reptiles.

<FOOTNOTES> Shaw. Rhind's Sketches of Moray," and "Geology of Scotland."
           ELGIN.                                      R


