
				FORGLEN.                        89

	   Rate of Wages.-Wrights receive about 11s. and masons 12s.
	per week; tailors 2s. per day.  A ploughman's wages for year are
	L. 11; a woman's wages L.5.  In 1795, according to the former
	Statistical Account, the fee of a farm-servant was from L.7 to L. 8;
	women received about L. 2, 1Os.  Wooden ploughs cost L. 3, and
	iron ploughs L. 3, 10s.; carts, L, 10; harrows, 8s.
	   Live-stock.-The Aberdeenshire and Buchan are the common
	kinds of cattle reared in the parish, and great attention has been
	paid to the improvement of the stock, by the introduction of the
	Teeswater, the Dunrobin, and the Galloway breeds.  The common
	breed of sheep is the Highland, which has been improved by the
	introduction of the Merino, the Cheviot, and the Leicester.  A
	valuable sort is obtained by a cross of the Leicester and the Che-
	viot.
	   Husbandry.-The land generally passes through seven a years'
	rotation, in the following order: 1. turnips; 2. oats or barley, with
	grass sown; 3. grass cut for hay; 4. grass; 5. grass; 6. oats; 7. oats.
	Very little wheat is raised in the parish.  This grain has been culti-
	vated for so short a time, that a statement cannot be warranted as to
	whether it will be a profitable crop.  The latest improvements in
	agriculture have been introduced.  About one-third of the arable
	land has been reclaimed from waste within the last fifty years,
	and one-fourth of what is improved is drained.  Leases are usual-
	ly granted for nineteen years.  The farm-buildings are inferior to
	those in the south of Scotland.  The work of inclosing is making
	great progress.  Hedges as enclosures are almost unknown.  The
	dry stone dike is chiefly used for that purpose.  The chief obsta-
	cle to improvement is want of capital.  There are several quarries
	of clay-slate in the parish.
	   Fishery.-At one time, the salmon-fishing in the Deveron was
	of considerable value; but now, owing, as it is supposed, to obstruc-
	tions in the mouth of the river, it is much fallen off, so that the
	rent for three miles is only L. 5 per annum.  The whole extent
	of the river in the parish is generally let to two individuals.

            		   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Banff, at the distance of seven miles from the northern extremity
	of the parish, is the nearest market-town.  The post-town is Tur-
	riff, about a mile distant from the south-eastern boundary.  There
	is no village in the parish.  The, extent, of turnpike road may be
	about seven miles.  Three carriers pass through, weekly, to Aber-
	deen.  The bridges over the rivulet are in good order.  That over


