
166                       LANARKSHIRE.

effected by the addition of the acetate of lead, to an aqueous solu-
tion of alum (sulphate of alumina.)  Sulphate of lead is thus pre-
cipitated, whilst acetate of alumina, constituting the mordant, re-
mains in solution. About 1789, Mr Macintosh modified this pro-
cess by the substitution of acetate of lime, instead of acetate of lead.
A similar decomposition, affording acetate of alumina in solution,
in this instance takes place. By this process the selling price of
the red colour liquor became lowered from three shillings per gal-
lon, to sixpence, and under, per gallon. This process was never
patented, and as it speedily became appropriated by others, the
inventor derived scarcely any advantage from it. Many thousand
pounds Sterling were annually expended on malt and barley, in the
manufacture of saccharum saturni, at Glasgolw, between the year
17861 the period of the first introduction of the manufacture, and
1820, when pyroligneous acid prepared from wood was substituted
for the malt vinegar, previously employed in this process.
	In 1793, Mr Charles Macintosh introduced at Pollockshaws,
numerous and important improvements in the art of dyeing fancy
muslins, and in 1795, be established the first alum-work erected in
Scotland, at Hurlet, in Renfrewshire, about six miles from Glasgow.
Two other alum-works at Campsie, and in the parish of Baldernock
in Stirlingshire, were shortly after established through his interven-
tion, which works now yield an annual supply of 2000 tons of alum.
The decomposed aluminous schistus found in the coal wastes is
the material employed at these places in the manufacture of alum,
--the price of which has been reduced from L. 25 per ton, at which
it was when these works were established, to L. 12 and under per
ton. Remarks upon the influence exerted by this cause, on the
various branches of dyeing, calico-printing, tanning, and paper-
making,--in all of which the use of alum is indispensable,--would
be superfluous.
	In 1799, Mr Charles Macintosh prepared for the first time
chloride of lime, in the dry form, which has since been denominat-
ed bleaching salt, or bleaching powder. This process he patented,
and its manufacture, on a large scale, was carried on by Mr Mac-
intosh and Mr Charles Tennant of St Rollox for many years. Mr
Tennant had previously obtained a patent for the preparation of
chloride of lime in the liquid state, denominated bleaching liquor,
of which he_was the inventor. The immense chemical works at
St Rollox, since conducted on a scale of such magnitude and per-
fection by Mr Tennant, originated in this partnership.
	In 1808, Mr Charles Macintosh established at the alum-works at


