
238                      FIFESHIRE.

bery, Dundas of Dundas, &c. to whom a rent was paid, but up-
wards of twenty years ago, it was vested by act of Parliament in
trustees. The rent, under this act, once amounted to L.2300,
but now it yields about L. 1500 only. The currents of the tide
here are so peculiar, that, as was proved upon trial when an at-
tempt was made about the beginning of the century to turn off the
old boatmen, no sailor, unless brought up upon the passage, can
navigate the boats without much delay and risk.
   At one time, a visionary project of a tunnel beneath the Frith
a little way above the ferry, was entertained; and more lately,
another of a chain bridge across it, having Inch Garvie in the
middle for an intermediate step. There is at the ferry a battery, at
present dismantled, erected after the visit of Paul Jones.
   Eminent Men.--The settlement of the last incumbent of this
parish is a conspicuous event in the history of the church. It took
place in 1752, and occasioned the deposition of Mr Gillespie, mi-
nister of Carnock, on account of his refusal to attend the meetings
of presbytery held for that purpose. This was the origin of the
Relief church. The parish has produced no eminent men, unless
Admiral Greig, who rose to the chief command of the Russian
navy, and died in 1788, is to be accounted one.
   Land-owners.--Tbe valued rent is L.6866, 16s. 10d. Scots
money, and the proprietors are rated as follows: Earl of Hopetoun,
L.2268; Sir Robert Preston's Heirs, L.1947, 19s. 4d.; Sir Philip
C.H. Durham, G. C. B., L. 750, 16s. 8d.; Rev. John Kellock
Cuninghame, L.482, 19s. 4d.; James Hunt, Esq. L.425; John
Newton, Esq. L.392, 16s. 11d.; Heritors of Ferry hills, (several)
L.246; John Cuninghame, Esq. L.159, 14s. 9d.; Marquis of
Tweeddale, L.86, 15s. 1d; David Peat, Esq., L.63; Ferguson
Sharp, Esq., L.31, 12s. 6d.; Captain Spittal's Disponees, L.7;
Andrew Tulloch's Heirs, L.5, 2s. 3d.
  Parochial Registers. The minutes of session are regular and

<FOOTNOTE>There are some curious notices of old customs to be found in the old minutes.
Money appears to have been often given from the poor's funds, to enable students to
prosecute their studies, and there was a fine to the poor on baptisms and marriages,
when these took place in the parties'own houses. The session also assumed the power
of appointing who should sit in the vacant seats in the church, and it seems to have
been acquiesced in. Persons are prohibited from receiving into their houses, or let-
ting houses to those from another parish, who do not bring "testificates," and the
civil powers are called upon to enforce this. Persons recusant are compelled to ap-
pear before the kirk-session, and to submit to the discipline enjoined, under penalty
of imprisonment by the magistrates, until they consent to do so.
   The exercise of aiscipline also appears to have been what would at present be ac-
counted rigorous. During the first thirty years of last century, there are instances


