
			    KILMANY.                       555

house, and an excellent garden. As the congregation is compos-
ed of the Dissenters of various parishes in the neighbourhood, I do
not know the number which attends this chapel. The number of
heads of families attending the Established Church is about 80;
of communicants, 266 to 275.
   Education.-There are three schools in the parish; the paro-
chial one, at Rathillet, the centre of the parish; and two private
ones, taught by females, at Hazleton of Mountquhanie, and at
Kilmany. The two last are supported by the liberality of Mrs
Gillespie of Kirkton, and Mrs Thomson of Charleton. Each
teacher has a house, school-room, and garden, and L.10 of sa-
lary; the rest of their living is composed of school fees, which may
amount to betwixt L.5 and L.10 per annum. These schools
have been of great use in teaching the younger children, who are
not able to go so far as the parish school; and still more so, for
giving to the girls in the parish and neighbourhood a knowledge
of knitting, needle-work, and other branches of female education.
In the parochial school, the ordinary branches of education are
at present most ably taught by Mr William M'Gillivray. In
addition to these, if required, he is prepared to teach practical
mathematics, geography, and Latin. The fees are fixed by
the heritors and minister, as follows: for English reading, 2s.
per quarter; do. with writing per quarter, 2s. 6d these, with
arithmetic, 3s. 6d. per quarter; these, with English gram-
mar and geography, 5s. per quarter; without geography, 4s.:
and for the whole, with Latin, 10s. per quarter. The school-
master, like most of his brethren in country parishes receives only
three quarters per annum. He is at present ill accommodated,
having only the legal allowance of two rooms; and these are small
and low in the ceiling; but I have no doubt that this will be cor-
rected by the liberality of the heritors when a now school-room is
built. He has an excellent garden; and as session and heritor's
clerk, he has a salary of L.3, 10s., the emoluments of which office,
from marriages, births, and funerals may be, on an average, L.2
more per annum. His school-fees may amount to L.18 or L.20
per annum. All the children are sent to school, and there is al-
most no person who cannot read; and a great part of the lower
classes, can also write and keep accounts. From the central situa-
tion of the school, all the children in the parish can attend it,
who have reached the age of seven years. There is no need of
additional schools.


