
                         DALSERF.                            725

yet been wrought.  In the course of the last few mouths trials were
made for ironstone, both by boring and shafts, on the lands of
Machan, and which, if carried to sufficient length, would have been
decisive on this point in regard to the surrounding district.  But
the expense was considerable; and, though very favourable, ind-
cations were obtained, the attempt was abandoned without bring-
ing matters to a final issue.  The trials were made under the di-
rection of  Mr Craig, mineral surveyor; and, though in the mean-
time abandoned, it is the opinion of skilful and practical men, that,
by perseverance, ironstone will be obtained, not only in the lands
of Machan, but in the neighbouring grounds belonging to the
Duke of Hamilton and others.
   The numerous new attempts for, and fittings of coal in the pa-
rish, have arisen from the speculative spirit of the age, from the
impulse given by the railroad system, and the increased activity
of the neighbouring ironworks, from the hope of finding ironstone,
and more especially from the expectation that a railroad from
Glasgow to the north of England will ass through the parish,
affording an easy transit for its mineral stores.  A survey of the
line has later been made with what result is yet to be seen.
But in the meantime the collieries of the parish have a large
and increased sale from the parishes of Lanark, Lesmahagow,
Stonehouse, Strathaven, and Glassford.  Even Hamilton, Both-
well, Blantyre, Cambuslang, and East Kilbride, take a part of
their supply of coals from us.  Within the last few years, from
12,000 to 16,000, tons of coal used to be sold in the parish annu-
ally at from 3s. to 3s. 6d. per ton.  The quantity of late must
have greatly increased.  And that  the coal-masters, though their
speculative expectations have not yet been realized, are working,
if not with much profit in some cases, yet without loss, is plain,
from the fact that the price of coals to the inhabitants of the pa-
rish amidst greatly increased competition is much the same as
formerly.
   The sandstone connected with, the above formations is mostly
of a is, light whitish colour; wheras, farther down the country, near
Hamilton, it is generally, from being impregnated with irons, of a
reddish hue.  The beat freestone quarries in the parish are on
the Clyde.  It was from the quarry at Dalpatrick that the great
columus abd finest stones for the recent additions to Hamilton
Palace were taken.  Here stones to almost any size may be cut.
There is a freestone quarry on the farm of Skellyton, from which
   LANARK                            3 A


