
DUNINO.                              361

lates, that the boar's Chace was conferred by Alexander' the Brave,
about the year 1107, on some religious establishment in St An-
drews; and Martine of Clermont describes this space as what
would now amount to from eight to nine English miles long, and
from six to seven miles broad. It may appear strange that this
forest was permitted so near the gates of a city, the primacy of
the kingdom.  Dr Southey, in his Travels through Spain, men-
tioiis a Sierra de Busaco," a desert about Busaco, of four miles
circuit, to preserve the solemnity of the enclosed religious esta-
blisbm ent; and Caesar, in his sixth book of the wars of Gaul, states,
that, in German it was ur tial to have a wilderness round every
city, to avoid a sudden incursion of the enemy. Perhaps reasons
more probable than either of the above might be assigned why this
waste was allowed to remain so near St Andrews. The bishop of
that diocese could cultivate no part of this 11 Cursus Apri" before
lie bad a grant of it from King Alexander, as, prior to this, it might
be royal hunting ground; and part of it that was cultivated, unde-
niably, as appears from the chartulary of Aberbrothock, paid sti-
pend to the Culdees of Iona. Beside this, at the time of the
grant, the diocese of St Andrews not only included many' of the
most fertile parts of Fife, Angus, and Mearns, East and West
Lothian, and the Carse of Gowrie, but twenty-seven Scottish
nobles held their lands as its vassals. The Bishop of St Andrews,
who was but a liferenter, might consider the agricultural improve-
ment of ' the 11 Cursus Apri" as a matter of very inferior conse-
quence. In 1244, ole hundred and thirty-seven years after the
royal grant, some agricultural stir had arisen in the 11 Cursus Apri,"
then held by the Archdeacon of St And'rews of his superior, the
Bishop. This waste extended farther sotith than the parish of
Diinino, and included it; and the register of the priory of St An-
drews, among other places in this vicinity within the 11 Boar's Chace,"
mentions the following now belonghng to this parish, namely, 11 In-
dunnenochen,"certainly Dunynach or Dunino.- "Balecately," 
now Balcaithly; 11 Bale," now Bely; 11 Piitendruch and Strath-
fatha," now Pittendrueh and Stravithy; 11 Kinaldin," now Kinal-
dy. Pittairthy, Kingsmuir, and Primrose, are of rar later origin.
Dunino had become a parish in 1458, according to Maitland's
History, "when it was annexed by Bishop Kennedy to support a
collegiate church in St Andrews." It must have, however, been
afterwards disjoined from the college church, now called St Leo-
nards; yet there are still two fitrms belonging to: that parish, and


