
   1242                          PERTHSHIRE.

   which, up till this year, has collected L.30 annually and upwards;
   besides one connected with the congregation at Bridge of Teith,
   the income of which varies from L.2o to L.30.
      The probable average annual amount of collections yearly in
   the parish church for religious and charitable objects may be
   stated at from L.80 to L.100.
      Education.-There are seven schools in the parish.  Of these,
   one is the parochial school, three are endowed, at least partially,
   the rest supported by individual subscription.  The parochial teacher
   has the maximum salary, and the legal accommodation.
      Literature.-There is a circulathng library in connection with
   Deanston Works, besides religious ones attached to each of the
   three oldest churches in the place.
      Savings' Bank.-There is a savings' bank in Doune, viz. the
   "Kilmadock Parish Savings' Bank," besides one at Deanston for
   the cotton workers exclusively.
      Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
   receiving parochial aid is about 55 (though it has suddenly risen,
   by the pressure of the times, to 62,) and the average sum allotted
   to each is about 1s. 6d. per week, or L.3, 18s. per annum.
      The annual amount of contributions for their relief is upwards
   of L.200, about L.60 baving hitherto been collected at the church
   door, and the rest contributed by the heritors, who voluntarily as-
   sess themselves.
      Fairs.-The Doune fairs are well known.  Of these there are
   six annually.  The great fair, called the Latter Fair, is held on
   the first Tuesday and Wednesday of November; the sheep fair
   on Tuesday, and the black-cattle on Wednesday.  The next
   largest is held on the fourth Wednesday of the same month.
   The others, which are smaller, or mostly nominal, are, Candle-
   mas Fair, 11th February, for grain and general business; May
   Fair, second; Wednesday of May, for milch cows and cattle for
   graziug; July Fair, 26th July, for hiring shearers and general
   busindss; and Yuill Fair, last Wednesday of December, for fat
   cattle, grain, and general business.
      Inns, &c--There are 14 public-houses in the parish ; besides
   two at Deanston, in which no spirits are sold.
      Fuel.-The fuel used, besides wood, is peat and coal.  The for-
   mer is procured at the hill (Uamvar) and at Moss Flanders; the
   latter either at Binnockburn or near Alloa. The one costs about
   5s. and the other, exlusive of 5s. for carting, from 7s. to 8s. per
   cart load.
      Revised January 1844.


