
			TYNRON.                              479

maintained by the statute labour funds, with the exception of one
mile of turnpike. The bridges at Ford, Tynron Kirk, and Pin-
garie, afford sufficient accommodation over the Shinnel; and the
one over the Scar near the junction of the Shinnel affords suffi-
cient accommodation over that river; they are all in good repair.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the church could not be
better chosen for the accommodation of the people. It is distant
from the north-west end of the parish about ten miles; but the pa-
rish at that extremity is very thinly peopled. From the other ex-
tremity it is distant about two and a-half miles. The present
church has been found insufficient; and a very handsome plan, fur-
nished by Mr Burn of Edinburgh, to contain 314 sitters, has been
contracted for, and is to be built next season at the expense of
L. 975,--a sum, the liberality of which, (taking into consideration
the small population,) reflects the highest credit upon the heri-
tors.
	My highly esteemed and much revered relative and friend,
the late Rev. James Wilson, who preceded me in the pastoral of-
fice here, in his Account of the parish in the former work, makes
the following observations under the head of donations to the pa-
rish and the poor: "The most remarkable donation that has
been in the memory of the oldest man living, or indeed that ap-
pears from any written documents, was made in the year 1754
by Mr John Gibson, originally a native of the parish, and who
in his younger years was rather in straitened circumstances. Some
of his more wealthy friends, finding him possessed of a consider-
able share of genius, and fond of cultivating and improving it,
administered to him the means necessary for this end. After a
short time successfully spent in attention to his studies, he issued
forth into active life; by the mort perfect integrhty of manners, and
the most unwearied application to business, he increased both in
reputation and wealth. In the latter part of his life he was mar-
ried to a lady in London, by whom he had no children. He be-
queathed to her all his property during her personal life, and after
her death, which happened in the year 1762, L. 1500 was appoint-
ed by will to descend to the Society for Propagating Christian
Knowledge in Scotland. This Society, by their acceptance of
this donation, bound themselves to pay annually to the parish of
Tynron L. 35 Sterling,--L. 22 of this sum being paid by the trea-
surer of said Society to a schoolmaster appointed by Mr Gibson's
latter will to teach a school at or near Tynron Kirk; the school-


