
     Of Markinch.

   Population.-Markinch is, perhaps, one of the most popu-
lous country parishes in Fife; the number of souls amounting
to nearly 2800.  The return to Dr. Webster in 1755, was
only 2188.  Hence there is an increase of about 612.  This
extraordinary population may be accounted for from the fol-
lowing circumstances:  There are 7 villages in the parish,
which contain about 400 families; and two large collieries,
which employ a great number of hands.  The feuars are ve-
ry numerous, being about 120.  There are a great many mills,
of different kinds, upon the Leven.  Every farm of any con-
siderable extent has a cottage town upon it; and there is a
great proportion of the heritors resident, who, besides the ex-
traordinary number of servants they keep, employ a much
greater number of labouring people, than tenants could be
supposed to do*.

   Heritors and Rent.-The principal heritors are the Earl of
Leven, Mr. Balfour of Balbirnie, Colonel Wemyss of Wemyss,
Mr. Bethune of Balfour, and the Countess of Rothes.  Be-
sides these, there are several other respectable gentlemen, who
possess considerable property in the parish, and a number of
small proprietors.  The number of the whole is 21, of whom
11 are resident.  The valued rent amounts to 10,456 L. 5 s.
Scotch money.  The real rent cannot be exactly ascertained, as
many of the proprietors are resident, and have a considerable
     Vol. XII. 3 X

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since the year 1785, when the present incumbent was admitted, the po-
pulation of the parish has increased about 200, owing the re-erection of Bal-
gonie colliery, which had not been wrought for 40 years, and a great many new
feus, granted lately by the earl of Leven.  Within the last six or seven years,
about 80 new houses have been built, and 8 rebuilt, besides a great many more,
which are building.  The expense of these buildings may amount to 4000 L.
Sterling.  The division of the inhabitants, and any other circumstance relative
to the population of the parish, necessary to be remarked, will be seen in the Sta-
tistical Table hereto annexed.
 

