
                       LARBERT.                            353

Mr Bruce's death. Mr Bruce wag candidate for the place of
Convener of the Commissioners of Supply of the County of Stir-
ling; a place of honour, not of emolument. His opponent was
a gentleman of the Whig party, who, if I recollect right, was
elected.
  A few years before his death, Mr Bruce's eye-sight became
a little defective, so that he could not easily read by candle-
light in the evening, and he said he had the intention of learning
to play on some musical instrument, for the purpose of being able
to pass his evenings with less exertion to his eyes.
  One evening at Kinnaird, he fell down the stair, whilst he was
handing a lady to her carriage. He remained in a state of insen-
sibility ever after the fall, and died in the course of the next four-
and-twenty hours. The fall was attributed to an apoplectic at-
tack. He thus died in 1794, at the age of about 64, having
lived a year longer than that period of seven times nine years, ce-
lebrated by the Platonists and old medical writers as the grand
climacteric year.He was spared the pain of living to advanced
old age, and had the good fortune to arrive at the end of life, be-
fore the time when disease and infirmities usually come on.
  Mr Bruce was twice married, and by his second marriage to a
daughterof Thomas Dundas of Fingask, he left a son and a daughter;
and a descendant of his son continues to own the estate of Kin-
naird, in this parish.
  2. Major-General Thomas Dundas of Fingask, commanded
the 80th or Edinburgh Volunteers during the American war, and
was the personal friend of Marquis Cornwallis, under whom he
served. General Dundas resigned the Lieutenant-governorship
of Guernsey, to command a division in Sir Charles Grey's expedition
against the French West India islands, having borne a most distin-
guished part in the capture of all the islands which were taken. Ge-
neral Dundas expired of a malignant fever, while in command of the
Island of Guadaloupe. A monument was placed over his remains by
the officers and soldiers of his division, which having been destroyed
by the French General Victor Hugues, was restored by the gar-
rison, when the island again fell into the hands of Great Britain.
A cenotaph, by Bacon, was erected to the memory of General Dun-
das, by the British Parliament, in St Paul's edral.
  3. The following is an account of some ot the persons engaged
in the first establishment of the Carron Iron-works:--
   STIRLING                                     Z


