
			    BIGGAR.                         363

traced on the west side of that hill. Similar remains appear on
the hill above Lindsaylands. Some of these smaller supposed camps
were probably nothing more than fortified cattle-folds, into which the
flocks were driven on the approach of the southern reivers. Four
large stones, which seem from their position to be the remains of a
Druidical circle, stand on the top of a round hill on the lands of
Oldshields, now added to Biggarshields. Several arrow-heads of
flint were lately found near these stones. Two vessels of Roman
bronze, and evidently of Roman manufacture, were found in a moss
on the lands of Carwood. One of them, which holds about 2 quarts,
and has a handle and three legs, is in the possession of Mr Brown
of Edmonston. The other is of a squatter form, and holds about 8
quart. When Biggar Cross-know, a small eminence in the middle
of the town, was removed a few years ago, a gold coin of the Emperor
Vespasian was found in excellent preservation. But by far the finest
object of antiquity of which this parish could boast was the remains
of the old castle of Boghall. These fine ruins, standing near the
middle of a beautiful vale, lent a most interesting feature to the
landscape; but they now serve a very different purpose, having been
recently demolished to furnish materials for farm buildings, dikes,
and the like. A small corner tower or two still mark the place
where they stood.
	Eminent Men.--There are not a few names of note connected
by birth or otherwise with the parish. The late Dr A. Brown, Pro-
fessor of Rhetoric in the University of Edinburgh, and one of the
ministers of that city, was a native of Biggar. So also is Robert For-
syth, Esq. the eminent counsel.--The superior and patron of the
parish is the Honourable Admiral Fleming, well known for his
patriotic character, and for the many important commands he has
held in the service of his country. The Admiral is at present
Commander-in-Chief at the Nore.--Another of our proprietors is
the Honourable Mountstuart Elphinstone, a name dear to the
cause of civilization in the east. He is well known to the world
by his interesting account of the Kingdom of Caubul; and his en-
lightened and benevolent policy when Governor of Bombay, and
subsequently of Madras, will ever form one of the fairest pages in
the somewhat chequered history of British India. It may be ad-
ded, that John A. Murray, Esq. the present Lord Advocate of
Scotland, and the Rev. Dr Dickson of St Cuthberts, are connect-
ed, by the holding of property, with this parish.


