
                       PARISH OF KEIG.

           PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

      THE REV. ALEXANDER LOW, A.M. & F.A.S., MINISTER. *

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, &c.-Keig occupies the north-east portion of the
valley of Alford, here shut in by part of the Benachie range on the
north, and the Menaway hills on the east, closing in upon the
river Don, which intersects the parish.  It is bounded on the north
by the parishes of Leslie and Premnay, partly along the southern
slope, and partly along the ridge of the hills ; on the east, by Oyne,
down the south side of Benachie to the Don, and by Monymusk
up the north end, and along the lap and lower ridge of Menaway,
leaving its summit about half a mile to the east; on the south, it
is bounded by Tough; on the west, by Alford as far as the Don,
and then by Tullynessle, until it joins Leslie at the north-west
angle.  The form, though irregular, is compact, the inhabited
part extending from the church in all directions, from 5 1/2 to
2 1/2 miles, the length from north to south being about 5 1/2 miles,
the breadth at the north end 4, near the middle where the Don
crosses it not quite 1 1/2, and at the south end 2 1/4.  The contents
are 7900 imperial acres, or about 12.344 square miles.
   Topographical Appearances.-The most remarkable mountain
ranges lying partly in Keig are those of Benachie and Menaway,
both composed of granite.  The eastern extremity of the former
is a rocky peak, in the parish of Oyne, called the Mothertop, from,
which the mountain, extending west about five miles, connects with
a chain of a different formation, which, under several names,
reaches nine or ten miles farther in the same direction, terminat-
ing in Auchindoir.  The Mothertop is, according to Robertson's
map of Aberdeenshire, 1677 feet above the level of the sea, and,

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late Major Youngson, Harthill, before the appointment of the
Rev, Alexander Low to the church and parish of Keig; with additions and correc-
tions by Mr Low.


