
114                        RENFREWSHIRE.

confirmed by the appearance of the surface, and of the soil beneath,
a branch of the Gryfe formerly intersected the parish, a little way
above the rocky elevation on which the church stands; in which
case the site of that building must have been once, in the strict
sense, insular, as it still occasionally is, at high floods.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The extreme length is about 3 1/2 miles,
and its breadth varies from 3/4 of a mile to 2 miles or more.  It is
bounded on the north by the river Clyde, which divides it from
the parish of Old Kilpatrick in Dumbartonshire.  Its eastern and
southern boundaries are formed respectively by the rivers Cart and
Gryfe, which flow between it and the parish of Renfrew; while
westward it marches in an irregular line with the parish of Erskine,
and touches at one point the parish of Houston.
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface, especially in the vi-
cinity of the rivers, is flat, or gently sloped; but it is diversified by
a number of diluvial rising grounds, of considerable elevation,-
some of them under the plough to the summit, others of them beau-
tifully wooded, and all of them commanding extensive views of the
surrounding country.  The strath of the Gryfe is extensive and
fertile, and reminds the English traveller of his native vales.
   Climate and Diseases.-The climate, although moist, is health-
ful.  It has been alleged that, in former times, fevers were scarcely
known here.  At present, the place does not appear to have any
greater degree of exemption from them than is enjoyed by other well-
aired localities.  Cases of typhus and scarlet fever occur almost every
year,-seldom, however, with fatal results.  Last year, the natural
small pox prevailed extensively amongst persons of various ages, who
had all been vaccinated in infancy; but in no instance did the dis-
ease destroy life or disfigure the countenance.  On a recent occa-
sion, when Asiatic cholera afflicted the towns and villages of the
neighbourhood, a young healthy man, and an aged woman, both
of temperate habits, and residing under the same roof in a seclu-
ded cottage, were attacked during night almost simultaneously, and
both cases proved rapidly fatal.  As may be conceived, this melan-
choly visitation created great alarm in the parish; but happily the
epidemic did not extend its ravages farther.
   Springs and Rivers.-In the higher parts, there are some springs
of the best quality, devoid of any mineral taint,-and of refreshing
coolness.  Generally speaking, however, the wells are more or less
chalybeate; and those in the vicinity of the river Gryfe are often
brackish during the drought of summer, when the salt water brought


