
			PARISH OF TANNADICE.

		PRESBYTERY OF FORFAR, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

			THE REV. J. BUIST, MINISTER.

	            I--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name and Boundaries.-- THE name of this parish was formerly
spelt Tannadyse; but in more modern times it is spelt Tannadice.
Both are obviously resolvable into Taynatas, a Gaelic word, which
signifies "a low warm green plat upon the water." A better de-
scriptioh could not be given in any number of words, of the low shel-
tered bottom, situated on the South Esk, on which the church,
manse, and kirk-town or village stand. But although peculiarly ap-
plicable to these, it is not so to much of the rest of the parish,
which is in the form of an obtuse-angled triangle; the side sub-
tending the obtuse angle, which is from 11 to 12 miles long,
separating on the E. and N.E. the-parish of Tannadice from those
of Careston, Fern, and Navar; and the sides which contain the
obtuse angle, separating Tannadice on the S. E., S. W. and N.
W. from the parishes of Aberlemno, Oathlaw, Kirriemuir, and Cor-
tachy. The boundary lhnes contain not less than 60 square miles
of surface, or 38,400 imperial acres. The longitude of the parish
is about two degrees east, and its latitude forty degrees north.
	Topoqraphical Appearances.--From the S. E. point of the
triangle, the surface of the parish gradually rises in undulating
ridges to the foot of the Grampians. Of these, the most eleva-
ted is called St Arnold's seat, which is nearly 500 feet higher than
the parish church, and not less than 800 above the level of the
sea. Nothing of the history of this saint is known, nor is any rea-
son assigned for his resting on this lofty eminence, surmounted by
a large cairn. The view from this height extends to the Scottish
capital,--having the Pentland and Lammermuir hills in the back
ground, with much varied and interesting scenery intervening.
	Hydrography.--There are two beautiful streams in the parish,
the one called the South Esk, the other, the Noran, on whose
banks a showy house and court of offices were lately erected, and


