
162                 DVMBARTONSHIRE.

Froon is,the power employed in driving the machinery of these
mills. There is also a meal-mill and a saw-mill on the river Luss
near to the village.

                     III.-POPULATION.
  There do not appear to be any sources whence the population
of this parish in ancient times can be accurately estimated. It is
recorded that "seven score" were killed at the battle of Glenfroon
on the side of the men of Luss; but we know not how many of
these were allies from other districts. From returns made in the
year 1755, the population appears then to have been 978. In
1793 it was 917. A diminution took place when many small farms
were united. It has since undergone a slight increase. In 1821,
there were 553 males and 597 females, 1150 in all. In 1831,
the whole population was 1181. This increase may be owing to
increased activity in the improvement of land, as well as to the
employment of more hands in other works carried on within the
parish.

       Number of persons residing in the village of Luss,      .          250
                                  in the country,              .    .     931
       The average number of births for the last seven years,              23
                          of marriages,  .          .           .     .     7
       Number of families of independent fortune residing in the parish,    1
       Fatuous,          .      .         .           .          .          2
       Blind,           .              .            .         .             4
       Deaf and dumb, all belonging to one family,    .        .            6

   Illegitimate births during the last three years, 4.
  Language, &c. of the People.-The language now universally spoken
by the natives of the parish is the English language, or rather
the provincial Scotch dialect. About a century ago, Gaelic seems
to have been as commonly spoken as English. Although it is still
spoken by some old people, the rising generation seem to row up
without any knowledge of the language. For many years, it has
ceased to be used in the service of the church. A good many Gae-
lic terms are still retained in common speech, which are unknown
in parts remote from the Highlands, where the Scotch dialect is
spoken.
   The peasantry in general are in much better circumstances, in
respect to dwellings, food, and dress, than they were at the middle
of the last century. But although there are many commodious and
comfortable dwellings, yet there is still much room for improve-
ment in this particular among the people generally. There is
also a more plentiful supply of food than formerly. The extend-
ed culture of potatoes, as well as the increased productiveness of

                               4


