
	910                         PERTHSHIRE.

	Esq. of Craighall; Colonel Chalmers of Glenericht, C. B.; Sir
	J. M. M'Kenzie of Delvine, Bart.; the Right Honourable Lady
	Keith, (Countess Flahault); J. L. Campbell, Esq. of Auchalader;
	J. B. Oliphant, Esq. of Gask and Ardblair; Sir James Ramsay
	of Banff, Bart. ; and Robert Geekie, Esq. of Rosemont.
	   Parochial Registers.-The earliest parochial register now extant
	belonging to this parish commences in the year 1647, and con-
	tinues down to August 1658.  There is no register from the lat-
	ter period down to 1702, from which time to the present the books
	are complete, and appear to have been regularly and accurately
	kept.  The book or books in which the register betwixt 1658 and
	1702 was kept have been lost.  The existing volumes contain
	the register of births and marrhages, and the records of ses-
	sion, but no register of deaths.  In the more ancient session
	records, there are several rather curious entries, illustrative of the
	strictness of discipline enforced in the Presbyterian Church, the
	internal discord and contentions which then distracted the
	kingdom, and the rude and ignorant condition of the popula-
	tion; and it may not be uninteresting to the readers of this ac-
	count to give a few extracts from them, so far as they relate to
	these points : " October 15, 1648, The minister asking if there
	was any new scandal, the session declare that George Clyde,
	Andrew Keay, and Walter Buchart were shearing corne the last
	Sabbath, and George Watson did threshe the said Sabbath.  The
	kirk-officer ordained to summon them against ye next day."
	" October 29,1648, The above parties called compearit, quho,
	after long denying, at last being convinced, confessed the breach
	of ye Sabbath, as they alleged after sunsetting.  After ye minister
	had aggravated yair sinne, by shewing yat ye whole Sabbath is
	religiouslie, to be observed not only in the kirk, but in yair pri-
	vate families, the sessione ordain them to satisfie ye next Lord's
	day, before ye pulpit, in humbling themselves and acknowledging
	their breach of Sabbath before ye congregation."  Again, " No-
	vember 27, 1648, Sundrie people fined," (under an ordinance
	previously made regarding the keeping of the Sabbath), and " or-
	dained to satisfie before ye pulpit.  Further, ye sessione, for the
	suppressing of this sinne upon the Lord's day, doe also hereby
	ordain that every taverne keeper, or seller of aile, quho runs aile
	in tyme of sermon, or ye whole day in ane excessive manner to
	any, sall pay hereafter as much as ye drinkers, toties quoties, it
	sall be found they are guiltie therein."  An ordinance of session


