
     Statistical Account

of the language which was originally spoken in the coun-
try, except the names of some places, which are evidently
Gaelic, such as Knockmead, Dunislat, &c.  Breckenhaugh,
(which is a Scotch word), is the name of one of the finest
natural objects that is to be met with in this part of the
country; for walking upon level ground, which seems to
be of considerable extent in all directions, we come, without
expecting it, to the top of the hill, where we are struck,

<FOOTNOTE>

is necessary to form their minds, and secure their usefulness, they must be
eventually at least hurtful to their manners; not to mention, that by col-
lecting so many people of all descriptions into one place, they may mate-
rially affect, if not exhaust the funds of the poor.  But it is not my inten-
tion to reflect upon works, in which human ingenuity seems to be carried
almost as far as it can go, and in which persons of the first character and
greatest respectability are concerned.  And therefore I remark, that as to
what relates to the poor, those stated in the table are not the only per-
sons who receive from the funds.  There are besides these, several others
whom it is found necessary to assist from time to time, but who are not
entered on the poors list, because they are able to do something for them-
selves, and that they may be the more industrious.  The capital of their
fund commenced about 60 years ago in the time of Mr Rouat.  He was
what is called a popular preacher, and popular with this peculiarity, that
he was equally esteemed by the great and the common people; and be-
ing well attended every Sabbath by both, the collections were such as to
enable the session or vestry, to raise a little, as a stock, which has been
increasing ever since, and is now pretty considerable.  The interest arising
from this and the contributions at the church door on Sundays form the
annual income, which is appropriated to the exigencies of the poor, and
is usually more than sufficient to answer their demands and to put them
above the necessary of begging.  Begging, however, is daily practiced by
those who come from other places.  Restrained from following this at
home, and knowing how ready the people here to listen to them, and
relieve them, they pour in upon them from every quarter, and importune
them every hour.  But that cannot be charity which brings abroad the
idle and the diseased, and that cannot be charity which distributes with
an indiscriminating hand.  Charity thinketh no evil, but charity must
think the truth ; and while it does, it must as insallibly lead us to dif-
countenance begging, as it will lead us to be merciful, and full of com-
passion to the poor.


