
			KILSYTH.                         141


lendar woods, Cumbernauld, Dykehead, Craigmarloch, Croyhill,
Bar, and Strowanhill.
   Meteorology.--As the parish lies along the line of hills which
reaches the Atlantic to the west, showers come chiefly from
that quarter, especially when the winds are westerly, which they
are a considerable part of the year. The air is generally pure
and salubrious. The inhabitants of the country part of the
parish, with the exception of the miners, are generally healthy,
and arrive at considerable longevity. One man, Robert Miller,
died two years ago, at the age of 101, and had lived for the most
part in this parish, and in the married state, (his wife dying at
the age of 86,) for sixty-four years. There are several persons
of both sexes fourscore and upwards. The town of Kilsyth is
favourably situated for health, yet few of the inhabitants, (chiefly
weavers,) arrive at old age.
  Mr Robe (Narrative) records, that, in the year 1733, on the 27th
of June, a very remarkable thunder storm took place. The morn-
ing was fair, the sky clear, the sun bright. About eleven A. M.
a gleamy kind of darkness overspread the sky; a water-spout seems
to have fallen; numberless torrents poured from the hills, sweep-
ing houses bridges, corn, and cattle all before them. Several
acres in the valley were covered with stones of all sizes, from 20
tons to small gravel; in some places, from 4 to 6 feet deep.  In
the year 1832, June 14th, we were visited with a similar water-
spout and thunder storm, with hail, and torrents of rain.  For
two hours, the storm was truly terrific, and threatened awful de-
vastation.
  Geology--Soil.--The East Barony and the West, into which divi-
sions the parish has been distinguished since l649, are remarkably
unlike each other. The former consists, for the most part, of a
great number of rising grounds in the strath, of a gravelly descrip-
tion. Although the soil is, for the most part, light, it is productive,
and easily cultivated. Immediately around Kelvinhead, east and
south, the soil is of considerable depth, of a black loam, bearing
excellent crops. Proceeding westerly by Gateside, Shawend,
Woodend, Barr, and the glebe, it is much shallower, a light sharp
soil lying generally upon blue whin. The valley west of the town,
comprising also about half-a-mile to the east of it, is the richest
soil in the parish, particularly the fields along the Garrel-burn to
the north of the church, and the farm of Boghouse, and part of
Gaval along Kelvinside, which yield abundant crops of all de-


