
			FORDOUN.                               73

rise towards the Grampians, assume the conglomerate character,
and contain pebbles from the older rocks of great variety of size.
This conglomerate, the trap dikes which occur in it, and the man-
ner in which it reposes on the transition series, have been minute-
ly described by Colonel Imrie in the section of Glenesk, a few
Šmiles west of the parish of Fordoun, and which is published in the
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. * A general simila-
rity of character is observable at different points of the chain, but the
section in Fordoun parish is less detailed, whilst at the same time it
offers some peculiarities. The most ample view is obtained in the
course of the Ferdun Burn, which passes the House of Phesdo. We
are first struck by the rapid rise of the sandstone strata, for which,
however, we soon find an adequate cause in the appearance of a
very remarkable trap dike, which has obviously had a most mate-
rial share in this effect, and which leaves its in some doubt as to
how far the elevation of the great range was concerned in it. It
is a remarkable fact, that in the section here described, the sand-
stone strata are actually thrown back, or dip to the north, in con-
sequence of this intrusive rock. Nor does the cause seem merely
local. There is perhaps not much doubt that this is the same mass
which appears in Colonel Imrie's section through the grounds of
the Burn. The mineralogical character is similar; and we have
succeeded in tracing the particular dike in question, for a very con -
siderable distance on each side of the Fordun Burn, just above the an-
cient British fortress called the Green Castle, where it was first noticed.
To the westward, it may be recognized in the bed of the Craigniston
burn, a little above the farm of Bogindollo;--to the eastward, it is
exposed in a ravine in the side of the hill of Strathfinella, where it
plunges under an immense bed of gravel. By a careful search we
have, however, detected it, not far from the church of Fordoun
(several miles to the eastward), close to the road ledding to the
mansion of Drumtochty. One circumstance which renders it more
easily discoverable is a remarkable one. The sandstone in its vi-
cinity is so much hardened as to improve it greatly as a building-
stone, consequently it is quarried at several points along the line
of trap. Indeed, we find the Sandstone modified within a few feet
from a loose bed (not deserving the name of rock) to a quartzy
consistence. The trap is a well-characterized greenstone, con-
taining amethyst; and its manner of insinuation between the sand-
stone strata, sometimes giving the appearance of interstratifica-

<FOOTNOTE>Vol. vi. p. 3.


