
                         DUNSCORE.                      339

but on several farms the Ayrshire has been recently introduced,
and the prevailing breed of sheep is the heath or black-faced variety.
Swine are reared in great numbers, chiefly of the smaller breeds,
being fed to the weight of about nine to fifteen stones. Many of
the farmers also rear their own horses, or breed young horses for
sale. Salmon occur in the Nith, and sometimes also, although
rarely, in the Cairn. They come up for the purpose of spawning
in the month of September, and return to the sea in March. The
Cairn abounds in excellent trout.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-On Springfield-hill, which hs a very considerable
eminence in the lower end of the parish, there are obvious traces
of a military station, which seems hitherto to have escaped notice.
It is of an oblong form, evidently adapted to the nature of the
ground, and covers about two acres of land. It is now concealed
by a plantation of larch, enclosed with a dry stone fence, but may
be easily traced out. There is a double mound in front, forming
two crescents, with a ditch between them. The outer crescent is
smaller than the inner, which not only expands into a wider curve,
but is considerably more elevated. The interior of the whole, form-
ing the top of the hill, is flat; but the same regularity cannot be
traced so distinctly in the rear as in front, although there is a steep
descent all round. There is only one entrance apparent, which is
on the east side, and just at the point of junction of the outer with
the inner mound. This has evidently been a military station and
probably a Roman one;-for it is situated very near the line of an
old Roman road which passed through the parish of Kirkmahoe,
on the opposite side of the Nith, and it commands a complete view
of the country in the direction of Tinwald and of the hill of Burns-
wark, which is distinctly seen in the distance. It is admirably cal-
culated, therefore, by natural situation, to have answered the pur-
pose of a military station, and to have maintained a communication, by
signal, through the Barhill of Tinwald, with the famous Roman camp
at Burnswark. It is also reported, that a battle-axe was once found
in this hill, but of this we have not been able to ascertain the certainty.
   Ancient Families.-The chief families in this parish, in ancient
times, were the Griersons of Lag, of Chapel, and of Dalgoner, the
Kirks or Kirkhoes of Bogrie and Sundaywell;* and the Kirkpatricks

<FOOTNOTE>There is a very general tradition that some centuries ago, three brothers named
Kirk despatched one Culton, a notorious robber, wbo infested Glenesfin, which was
then surrounded by a forest, and that, as a reward for this action, the reigning
monarch  granted to each of the brothers, respectively the properties of SundaywelL,
Bogrie, and Chapel. The spot where Culton was slain is still pointed out, and cal-



