
             URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER .                       377

created at, home, so that the number of persons who now, visit the
south in quest of employment, especially as reapers, is materially
on the decrease.
   Leases.-The usual duration of leases is nineteen years. A few
of what are called improving leases extend to the tenn of thirty-
one years.
   Rent of Land.-The average rate of rent for arable land is about
L.1, 5s. per acre.
   Wages.-Ploughmen receive from L.6 to L.8 per annuml toge-
ther with board. Maid-servants are allowed from L.3 to L.4.
Men employed as day-labourers are paid at from 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d.
per day. Women for field-work, 6d., and in harvest they are al-
lowed 1s. When day-labourers are provided by their employers
with board, about one-third of the usual money wages is, deducted.
   There is no manufactory in the parish. The machinery of the
south has almost entirely superseded the spinning-wheel of the in-
dustrious matron, and the simple loom of the country weaver.
The good old practice of manufacturing the linen and other ap-
parel for the use of the family, which at one time formed a prin-
cipal part of the domestic employment of the females sex, is now
nearly forgotten. Our young people have accordingly exchanged
the simple but comfortable woollen stuffs in which their ancestors
attired their limbs for the more gaudy but less substantial fabrics
of Glasgow or Manchester. Whether any benefit accrues to their
health from the change may be questioned. Is it improbable that
the substitution of their cotton for warm woollen raiment in the
humid climate of Britain is a main cause of the prevalence of con-
sumption in the present day?
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-There is no market-town in the parish. The
nearest is Dingwall, distant from the central parts of the parish,
roundl by Conan Bridge, about five miles. But across the frith, by
a boat, at time of high water, and by the sands during ebb time,
the  distance is not more than two miles. Dingwall is also thd
nearest post-tovn; which is obviously an inconvenience to the pa-
rish at large, but especially to the eastern parts.
   Fairs.- At a small village called Culbokie, four fairs are bold
in the course of the year.
   Villages.-The village of Canan Bridge, on the line of the great
northern road, is a thriving place, with a population of upwards of
300 sonls. Culbokie, already noticed, is the only other village.
  ROSS AND CROMARTY.                       B b


