

           454                         PERTHSHIRE.

              Meteorology.- No register of a meteorological nature has been
           kept in this district. But we may come to some interesting conclu-
           sions by the aid of a set of observations made at no great distance.
           In Moulin, for instance, where the writer was incumbent for many
           years, a parish about 12 miles in a direct line to the north-east of
           this, I found, on an average of six years, beginning with 1813, and
           terminating with 1818, the state of the thermometer to be 46.5;-
           that of the barometer 29.43;-that of the rain-gauge 30.81 inches;
           and the number of days in which the wind was from the west, with
           its different points to the north and south, to be 158, to which, if
           we add one-half of the days in which it blew from the north or
           south, which probably were as often on the west side of these points
           as otherwise, we shall have 204 days of a westerly wind. Though
           the distance between Moulin and Lochtay side be but small, I am
           inclined to think that we bave heavier and more frequent rains in
           Breadalbane, so much so, perhaps,  as to raise our average to about
           32 inches in the year: as I am inclined also to think that the
           wind is here oftener from the west. Upon the whole, we are ex-
           posed to great degrees of neither heat nor cold. The vast body
           of water contained in Lochtay probably exercises both in summer
           and winter, no inconsiderable influence upon the state of the at-
           mosphere. Certain it is, that neither does the loch ever freeze,
           nor does snow lie long except in winters of extraordinary severity,
           as those of 1814 and 1838, within a certain height from the verge
           of the water. In January, and the beginning of February 1838,
           when the thermometer in the open air was so low as to range be-
           tween 1&deg; and 32&deg;, the temperature of the lake was found to be 40&deg;.
              The atmosphere of the parish is uniformly pure and salubrious,
           which is sufficiently evinced, as well by the general healthiness of the
           people, as by numerous instances of longevity. The prevalent dis-
           tempers may be stated to be affections of the breast and lungs,
           exhibiting themselves in coughs, consumptions, &c. Rheumatism
           is a very common complaint.
              Lochtay.-The principal lake is Lochtay, a vast body of water,
           stretching from north-east to south-west, in nearly the form of the
           letter S. It is about 16 miles in length, on an average rather more
           than a mile wide, and in some places probably not less than 600
           feet in depth. It may be considered as presenting a surface of
 	   about 17 square miles, or 10,000 acres. Except at the two ends,
	   the channel everywhere shelves rapidly from the edge, so as to
	   bring you by a single step or two into deep and dangerous water.
           The lake is fed at its south-west extremity by the rivers Dochart


