
814                      ARGYLESHIRE.

  Extent, &c.-Iona is situated in 56 59' of north latitude, and
divided from the Ross of Mull by the Sound of I on its eastern

this inscription, Tumulus Regum Hybernice, that is, the Tombe of Ireland Kinges; for
we have in our auld Erishe cronickells that there wes four Irland kinges eirdit in
the said tombe.  Upon the north syde of our Scotts tombe, the inscription beares Tu-
mulus Regum Norwegice, that is, the Tombe of the Kings of Norroway; in the
quhilk tombe, as we find in our ancient Erishe Cronickells, ther lays eight kings of
Norroway; and als we find in our Erische Cronickells that Coelus, King of Norro-
way, commandit his nobils to taje his bodey and burey it in Icolmkill, if it chancit
him to die in the iles.  Bot he was so discomfitit, that ther remained not so manney
of his armey as wold burey him ther : Therefor he was eirdit in Kyle after he stroke
ane field against the Scotts, and wes vanquisht be them.  Within this sanctuary also
lies the maist pairt of the Lords of the Iles with ther lynage, Tuo clan Lynes with
their lynage, M'Kynnon and M'Guare, with ther lineages, with sundrie uthers in-
habitants of the hail iles, because this sanctuary wes wont to be the sepulture of the
best men of all the iles ; and als of our kings as we have said; because it wes the
maist honorable and anciend place that was in Scotland in thair days, as we reid."
  In the same manuscript, there is another description of Iona, but anonymous,
bearing date 1693, and is as follows:
  " This ile lyes straucht in lenth to the south south-west two myles in lenth, one
in breadth, full of litle hillocks, pleasant and healthfull, with a store of common me-
dicinall hearbs naturally growing; and some monks transplanted thither from other
places both esculent and medicinal.  The ile is fruitfull, and hes plaine arable ground
in gud measure interlyned betwixt the little green hills thereof.  The product and
cheif commoditie is barley.  Its seveared from the south end of Mull by a narrow
sound, 3 part of a leg, which makes it verie commodious for fishing, and all water
and sea foules.  This ile hes been famous, first, by Columbus his dwelling there; 2do,
by the large and curious church, abbacie, and nunerie founded there.  A consider-
able citie vas in the ile of old, called Sodora, the vestiges whereof is yett visible by
the port and streets thereof. It lay in the midst of the ile, upon the east cost, weel
stored with naturall fontanis in great abundance, great many gardens, yett vi-
sible, and many chapells, of whose particular uses (state that they served for Divine
worship) we can give little account.  One of these was dedicated to the Saint Oranus,
commonly called Oran.  It is situate neer the great church and abbacie, vith a par-
ticular precinct, in which many of our kings, and the kings of Irland and Danemark,
Iyes buried, vith severall other tombs of the heads of clans.  Stio.  By Columbus
his buriall there, in a litle chapel he himself, though the Irish alledge he is buried
with them.  Their credulative fancie is founded on a verse forged by some flattering
priest:
                     `Hi tres sunt una, tumulo tumulantur in uno
                      Brigida, Patricius atque Columba pius.'

But I have seen his life extracted out of the Pope's librarie, and translated in Irish by a
priest verbatim as it vas in Latin in the said librarie, shewing he died and vas buried at
I.  The priest vas Caal O'Horan.  Ther hes been many inscriptions upon the tombs
and pillars.  The most is obliterat.  Many curious knotts of mosaick vork yett to be
seen, though many is overgrown and covered with earth.  The burial-places of the
nuns is about the nunerie.  No women is yett toleratt to be buried neer the great
church or where the men are buried.  This is alledged to be by Collumbus' speciall
order.  In this ile was a great many crosses, to the number of 360, which vas all de-
stroyed by one provincial assembly, holden on the place a little after Reformation.
Ther foundations is yett etant; and two notable ons, of a considerable height and
excellent work, untouched.  In this iland is marble enouch, whereof the late Earle
of Argyle caused polish a piece at London, abundantly.	In a particular
place of the iland, neer the sea, ebbing and flowing thereinto, is found transparent
stones of all collours, but more ordinarily green, much resembling agatts.  They
yield to the file and toole, and I have severall sealle of them.  In this ile vas a socie-
tie of the Druids when Columbus came there ; but it seems they were non of the
best, for he banished them all.  Here is yett a few people upon the ile called Ostiarij,
from their office about the temple, who is observed never to exceed 8 in number,
which is said to be fortold by Columbus to be their judgement for some stro-


