
532                         ARGYLESHIRRE,

to the purchase of coals.  As they are inadequate fox, these pur
poses, the deficiency is supplied by means of a sum of L.5 grant-
ed annually to the school by the Society for Propagating Christ-
ian Knowledge, and the interest of L.100 collected for the pur-
pose of erecting a building for the institution.  The fees are, for
rieading alone, 2d. per week, and for reading, writing, and arith-
metic, 3d. per week, payable in advance.
  In common with many other towns throughout Scotland of re-
cent origin, and at some distance from the parish churches, Oban
has been but indifferently favoured as to the means of education.
The whole sum appropriated by the beritors of the parish of Kil-
bride, in which it is situated quoad civilia, to the purposes of educa-
tion in it, L8, 6s. 8d. per annum, and even this is not enjoyed by
any of the present teachers.  There is, however a favourable prospect
of the deficiency being supplied.  A grant of L.150 has been pro-
mised by Government towards the erection of a school-house, and
subscriptions to the amount of L.310 have been received, by means
of which, and additional subscriptions that are expected, it is pro-
posed to build a superior school-house and dwelling-bouse for a
teacher. The Marquis of Breadalbane has liberally countenanced
the undertaking, by promising a handsome subscription, and ground
for the site of the building.
  Village of Oban.--This village is situated on the north-west
shore of the parish.  Its neat and picturesque appearance cannot
fail to Please the traveller, whether he approaches it by sea or
land.  The view, from the bay, of the town and surrounding coun-
try is peculiarly striking. Oban is the property of the Most No-
ble the Marquis of Breadalbane, and of Robert Campbell, Esq.
of Sonachan.  It is indebted for its present appearance to the en-
couragement afforded by its present and late proprietors to house-
building, by giving stances on payment of a small few-duty; also
to the enterprising spirit of two, brothers named Stevenson, who
settled there about the year 1778, and engaged in ship-build-
ing and various branches of trade.  At that time there were few
slated houses in the village; now there are streets of good and
commodious houses.
  Owing to its centrical situation in the Highlands, its safe and
conimodious harbour, and good quays, it is visited almost daily in
summer by steamers with passengers to and from Glasgow, Inver-
ness, Iona, Staffa, and Skye.  There is also at that season, a
daily coach running to and from Inverary a distance of thirty-two


