
                     NEILSTON.          309

Dunlop; on the W. by Beith and Lochwinnoch; and in the N.
by the Abbey Parish of Paisley, which runs parallel to it for
about eight miles.
     Topographical Appearances.--Properly speaking, there are no
mountains ranges in this parish, though it has quite a Highland sce-
nery to the west.  The surface is exceedingly irregular and uneven.
On its eastern boundary, the land is flat; in the south and west
parts, it is hilly, having an elevation from 400 to nearly 90 feet
above the level of the Clyde, at the Broomielaw.  Here and there,
the ground rises into small hills of considerable height.  The
highest hills are the Pad, and Corkindale-law, which rise from
820 to about 900 feet above the sea.  These are separated by
a narrow valley, or ravine, through which the great turnpike
road from Glasgow and Paisley runs till it enters Ayshire.  The
Pad range of hills extends for about two and a-half miles; and
the Corkindale-law range, with those of the Fereneze, stretch
from east to west, fully four miles.  The Pad range gradually
slope to the valley or ravine, and has a northern exposure, as
does also that of Corkindale-law, whose declivities have a southern
exposure of very great beauty.  Through this valley, the water of
Levern flows for miles to the east.  Tp the west, the valley leads
along the lovely banks of Loch-Libo, which, in our opinion, ex-
cells in picturesque scenery, Rydal water in Cumberland !
     From the Pad, the view to the east is as grand as it is extensive.
But it is from Corkindale-law where a view presents itself, unri-
valled in beauty and extent by any in the west of Scotland, from a
similar elevation.  It commands, in a fine clear day, the half of
the counties of Scotland.  the spot on which you stand is a
small piece of table-land, not more than forty yards square.
From this, the hill slopes in all directions.  On looking north,
you have Dumbarton rock; the vale of the Leven; Smollet's
monument;  Loch Lomond, and some of its islets, and Benlo-
mond in the back ground, with the whole range of the Gram-
pians ! Looking east, the city of Glasgow and its suburbs :
and the whole vale of the Clyde, from Hamilton to Kilpatrick,
with the hills of Kilpatrick, Campsie, and top of Dunmayock :
the western Lomondd of Fife, Bathgate, and Pentland hills,
and Tinto from his base to the top.  From thence you have the
tract of the whole run of the Clyde, from its source till it joins the
Atlantic ocean.  On looking south, you have the Lead, Cumnocks,




s


