
                          KIRKCALDY.                       767

salary, without a house, and L.40 for his assistant. There are
upwards of 170 pupils attending the school. The present school-
house is insufficient for the accommodation of such a number;
but measures are at present in progress for erecting new and more
commodious school-rooms in a more open and airy situation than
that of the present school-house. The elementary branches are
taught in all the schools, and in three of them, Greek, Latin,
French, and mathematics, are taught. In the burgh school, the
fees vary from 3s. to 10s. per quarter, according to the branches
taught. In some of the other schools the fees are higher, and in
some a shade lower than the rates fixed by the council for the
burgh teacher. "Scale of fees in the burgh school, fixed by the
magistrates: English alone, 3s. per quarter; English with writing,
4s. 6d.; English grammar, arithmetic, and writing, 5s. 6d. ;
arithmetic, rudiments of Latin, geography, and writing, 6s. 6d. ;
writing alone, for one hour, 2s. 6d. The above fees include pens,
and no charge is to be made for coals or janitor."
   " Any branches taught besides the above, to be by special agree-
ment with the teacher ; but in no case can more than 3s. 6d. per
quarter be charged, in addition to the highest rate of 6s. 6d. as
above, making in all 10s. per quarter."
   Robert Philp, Esq. a native of this parish, long an extensive
manufacturer in the town, and an elder in the Established Church,
who died in 1828, left the munificent bequest of L.74,000, the
interest of which is to be expended in educating and clothing 400
children, who are "most needy," in this district. Schools have
been erected and teachers appointed under this trust in Kirkcaldy,
Pathhead, and Abbotshall. In Pathhead, 150 children are taught
and clothed; in Kirkcaldy, 100 ; in Abbotshall, 100 ; and 50 chil-
dren are sent to the parish school of Kinghorn and clothed by the
trust. Children are not admissible under six years of age, and they
are not allowed to remain after they are fifteen. Well-behaved scho-
lars, on leaving school, are allowed a sum " to enable them to
begin the world." At present, the funds allow them from L.7 to
L.10, according to their merits. The management of the fund is
committed to eighteen trustees, consisting of the two oldest jus-
tices of the peace within the burgh, the minister of Kirkcaldy,
three ministers of the presbytery of Kirkcaldy to be elected, four
elders from the kirk-session of Kirkealdy, also to be elected, and
eight of the burgh trustees. Some of the details of managing the
schools without the burgh are devolved on a board of managers


