
                         STIRLING.                            399

   The principal forest trees thrive well either in the rich clayey
loam or alluvial soil of the lower grounds, or in the lighter soil of
the higher parts. On the light sandy loam, are growing some
noble specimens of the Scotch elm (Ulmus glabra) and beech.

                   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
    There is no ancient or modern account of the history of the pa-
rish; nor am I aware, after much inquiry, of any existing in ma-
nuscript. There are two or three histories of Stirling, and ac-
counts of its scenery, antiquities, and other objects of interest,
chiefly intended as manuals to visitors. An immense number of
notices, relating to the history and antiquities of Stirling, lie scat-
tered in ancient and modern chronicles, and histories of Scotland,
in Chalmers's Caledonia, Sibbald's History of Stirlingshire, and
other works. Nimmo's History of Stirlingshire, edited, with
many additions and corrections, by Stirling, contains most of
these notices collected with much industry, and no little care and
discrimination, especially by the learned editor. But it requires
to be read with caution; and there are some statements which
way be corrected by a reference to the works already mentioned
and to other authorities.
   Stirling and its Castle.-Stirliug is situated partly on an emi-,
nence which, as already stated, rising from thq south-east, termi-
nates on the north-west, in the precipitous rock on which the castle
stands, and partly on the lower ground to the north-east, and
south-east of this eminence; the former being the more ancient,
and the latter the more modern part of the town. Like many
other places, both in Scotland, and in other countries, it has evident-
ly owed its existence to that of the adjoining fortress, in whose im-
mediate neigbbourhood the inhabitants had been induced to build
their dwellings, for the sake of the protection it afforded, in times
when security could only thus be hoped for.
  It is impossible to fix, with any approach to certainty, the
date of the erection of Stirling Castle. There are good grounds
for believing that it is of very ancient origin. Boece affirms that
Agricola raised fortifications on the rock on which it stands. That
the Romans had a station here, is almost certain. Their mi-
litary road from Camelon to the north of Scotland is known to
have passed, either close under the south-west side of the Castle-
hill, or, as seems more probable, through the hollow way which
passes over the high ground immediately contiguous to it on the
north, known by the name of the Ballingeich Road. There existed


