
     Statistical Account

   Stipend, Church, Poor.-The living, including the glebe,
is about L. 78 sterling.  Lord Saltoun is patron.-There is
no date upon the church, nor has the age of it been found in
any record.  It is supposed to have been built about the year
10004, when the Thane of Buchan routed the Danish army
upon the neighbouring hills; which, from a chieftain who
was killed, still retain the name of Sinclair.  It was built (as
tradition says) for a chapel to the religious house which once
stood in its vicinity, and had an aisle joined to it when it be-
came a parish church.  This church was formerly well known by
the name of The White Kirk of Buchan; and a celebrated mo-
dern historian (Dr Henry) mentions, that a queen once propos-
ed to visit this sacred edifice.  The oldest date legible upon any
of the antient pews, is 1596.  The old walls are built with
run-lime, which, by reason of its age, is now liker ashes than
lime.  The west end was rebuilt in the year 1710, and the
cast end was repaired in 1773.  A few aged trees, near the
church, make an agreeable appearance*.
   The poor's funds are made up of the money collected on
the Lord's days, and at the Sacrament, with sometimes a
small fine for fornication.  The money so collected, amounts
annually to about L. 13 sterling, unless in the late years of
scarcity; and the money distributed annually, amounts to a-
bout L. 12 sterling.  In the years I782, 1783, and 1784, the
collections were L. 15 sterling less than the sums distributed.
This deficiency, and a few bad debts, reduced the stock from

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are many tumuli in this parish and neighbourhood.  Some have
been opened, and found to contain coffins of gray slag-stones, let on their edges,
sides, and ends, and covered above with the same sort of stones.  In these
coffins were human bones.  The ground was a little raised, with a mixture of
earth, and small stones.  Upon what occasion people were buried there, in
that manner, is not known.


