
     Statistical Account

   Names of Places.-The names of places in this parish are
partly English, and partly Gaelic.  Of the former descrip-

<FOOTNOTE>

casion of being useful to him in his own coutry.  Yea, so anxious was that
gracious Princess to carry her good intention into execution, that she wrote a
letter to may Lord Sunderland, in which she desires his good offices in procuring
some mark of favour from the Court of England, to Mr. Burnett, which, she is
pleased to say, will be very acceptable to her and all her family, who interest
themselves in him.  But this letter was not delivered till the day before that
Lord was removed from all his employments, and it was not, at that season, a
recommendation at the Court of England.  In 1710, when Baron Bothmer was
sent Envoy extraordinary from the Court of Hanover to that of Great Britain,
on a very critical occasion, he was instructed to communicate, in every thing
relating to what he was charged with at the Court of London, with Mr. Bur-
nett, then there, and Mr. Burnett was desired by her Electoral Highness to give
Baron Bothmer his advice and assistance, in a letter written by the Secretary,
sealed with the Electress's signet, and accompanied with this gracious declara-
tion of her intentions.  'S.A.E. Madam m'ordonne de vous bien remercier de
sa part, du zele que vous continues de lui marquer pour sa personne, et pour
les interest de cette maison Electrorale, dont elle vous temoignera, dans l'occa-
sion, sa reconnoissance par des essets.' Mr. Burnett lived some years after the
accession; but, being old and infirm, had retired from the world; and he did
not live to receive those rays of the late king's (George the L.) goodness, which
his Majesty was so gracious as signify he intended him, in answer to a letter
that Mr. Burnett took the liberty to write, acquainting his Majesty of his hav-
ing a son born on the accession, whom he had named George, that he might
always remember, with his name, the blessings which were derived to the na-
tion from that day.  This son, the only one Mr. Burnett ever had, sent to his
cousin the Honourable Thomas Burnett, Judge of the Common Pleas, several
letters from her Serene Highness the Electress to his father, that show how
much he was trusted, and his services approved of; with the original letter
from that Princess to the Earl of Sunderland mentioned above.  Judge Bur-
nett was desirous to have those papers in his hands, as his father the Bishop was
mentioned in them, and as he hoped for an occasion of employing them for the
service of this son of Mr. Burnett, whom he knew and esteemed."
Thus far the manuscript.-Judge Burnett died suddenly of a sit of apoplexy,
soon after he received those papers, and the son of Mr. Burnett mentioned in
them, never received any favour from the descendants of the Electress Sophia.
His only son, the present Mr. Burnett of Kemnay, was at the Court of Berlin


