
84                     PEEBLES-SHIRE.

devour the buds of fruit trees, or whether they eat up the hearts
of the buds themselves.  The weasel, though an enemy to the
pounltry, is in some respects a friend to the farmer.  It kills the
mice and rats which lodge in corn-stacks and infest the barns of
the husbandman.  The usefulness of the polecat is doubtful:
it seems formed only for destruction.  It has been known to
kill and carry away dozens, and even scores of barn-door fowls in
the course of a night.  Frogs and efts, or newts, purify spring
water, by feasting on the insects that would corrupt it; `nd the
lizard performs a similar office on land, by devouring those minute
animals that prey on the leaves of plants.  The heron, on the
other hand, prevents the race of frogs from becoming too popu-
lous, in which he obtains the co-operation of ducks wild and tame.
A species of bird resembling the sea-mew is a constant attendant
on the ploughman in spring, and eats, up an incalculable number
of grubs and worms.  Tadpoles are infinite in number, but are
kept down by the different species of water-fowl.
  In severe winters, especially in time of snow, the barn-yards are
the common rendezvous of fowls of every wing; and the loss to
the farmer, if he dwell contiguous to a great man's preserve, is al-
most incredible, not only with regard to his stacks in winter, but
his green and white crops in summer and harvest.  The damage
done by hares and pheasants has been ascertained to equal the
rent of the farm.
   Botany.--The brambleberry is scarcely known here, but the
raspberry grows wild.  Blaeberries are exceedingly abundant in
Rachan woods, and on some of the heights.  The whortleberry
is also found on lofty place, along with the crane and crawberries.
The slocthorn is to be found only at Lossfennan; and wild roses
flourish in many places.
   Hazel-nuts have been found several feet below the surface of
the ground, though there are hardly any hazel bushes existing at
persent-grounds, but they seldom bring their fruit to maturity.
The remains of a natural wood may be seen on the estate of Moss-
fennan; but all the other trees in the parish have been planted,
though formerly many of them were indigenous.
   About half a century ago it was scarcely believed that any trees
would thrive in this climate, except Scotch fir.  John Loch, Esq.
of Rachan, however, set the example; and, besides fifty acres of
Scotch fir, planted larches, and a variety of hard wood trees, which


