
     Statistical Account

   Stipend, etc.-The church living, as augmented last ses-
sion, consists of 104 bolls of meal and barley, and 361. Ster-
ling, with a glebe of 6 acres, a garden, manse and offices.
The Earl of Airly is patron.  The church was rebuilt in
1775; is very substantial and commodious, clean and neat,
with a steeple of cut stone on the W. end. Connected
with it, on the eastward, there is an aile, containing *
large vault, formerly a burying-place of the Buchan fa-
mily, now belonging to the family of Airly.  The old
church was an extensive grand Gothick structure, dedi-
cated to Virgin Mary.  It bore no date.  There is a
large fount stone remaining, with some images of angels,
or saints, in rude sculpture, and but ill-suited to the ele-
gance of the general building.  The manse was built in
1789, at the expense of 322l. 10 s. Sterling, besides the
materials of the old manse and carriages.  It is an excel-
lent house, 39 feet by 25 within the walls; well finished,
and covered with the best Esdale slate.  The offices were
built in 1784.  A very handsome school-house was also
built in 1780.  And, to the honour of the gentleman con-

<FOOTNOTE>

attended with very desirable consequences, deserves, perhaps, to be men-
tioned.  During the summer months, in the interval between forenoon
and afternoon worship, a few of the scholars are employed every Sunday
in the church, for half an hour at least, in reading publickly a portion
of the Old and the New Testament; after which a catechetical exercise
follows.  These lessons are duly prepared the preceeding day in school.
This practice info res a degree of emulation among the scholars and af-
fords the people an offortunity of marking the gradual improvement of
the children knowledge, while, at the same time, their own may be
advanced.  At this school the manner teaching the English language
is the same with that observed by the best English teachers in Edin-
burgh: and yet, notwithstanding the abilities, the assiduity. and the
fuer of the schoolmaster, his present encouragement (including salary
paid by the heritors, salary as session-clerk and precentor, school-fees, and
perquisites of office), does not exceed 2 s. Sterling.


