
                                        MOULIN.                   647

	King James, and the glory of his country.  Then, the High-
	landers fired, threw down their fusils, rushed in upon the enemy
	with sword, target, and pistols, who did not maintain their ground
	two minutes after the Highlanders were amongst them, and I dare
	be bold to say, there were scarce ever such strokes given in Eu-
	rope as were given that day by the Highlanders.  Many of Gene-
	ral M'Kay's officers and soldiers were cut down through the skull
	and neck to the breasts; others had their skulls cut above their
	ears like night,caps ; some soldiers had both their bodies and cross
	belts cut through at one blow; pikes and small swords were cut
	like willows, and whoever doubts of this may consult the witnesses
	of the tragedy."  Victory declared on the side of Dundee.  The
	loss which his party sustained is variously estimated; that of
	M'Kay's was dreadful, upwards of 2000 of his men were hewn
	down by the Highlanders.  King William, who could not be ex-
	pected tn recline on a bed of roses, when he heard of the utter dis-
	comfiture of his troops, and, at the same time, of the death of his
	victorious antagonist, is reported to have said, " Well, were it not
	so, Dundee would have been at my gates to tell it himself."  On
	the other hand, the death of Claverhouse proved fatal to the pros-
	pects of King James; his fall put an end for ever to the Stewart
         dynasty.  Dundee was interred in the church of Blair-Atholl.  *
	  The other event to which we alluded is still fresh in the memory
	of man in the parish, and at the time created no small sensation

	posed to your service, and impatiently wait for your coming, and the success will
	bring in the rest of the nobility and gentry. having had all their assurance for it, ex-
	cept the notorious rebels, Therefore, Sir, for God sake, assist us, though it be with
	such another detachment, as you sent us before, especially of horse and dragoons, and
	you will crown our beginning with a complete success, and yourself with an entire
	possession of your ancient hereditary kingdom of Scotland.  My wounds forbid me
	to enlarge to your Majesty at the time, though they tell me they are not mortal.  How-
	ever, I beseech your Majesty to believe, whether I live or die,-I am entirely yours,
								               DUNDEE."
         <FOOTNOTE>The follnwing is Dr Pitcairn's character of Dundee, with Dryden's translation
                              Ultime Scotorum, potuit, quo sospite solo,
                                Hibertas patrise salva fuisse tuae:
                              Te moriente, novos accepit Scotia cives
                                Accepitque novos, te moriente, Deos.
                              Illa nequit superesse tibi, tu non potes illi
                                Ergo Caledoniae nomen inane vale:
                              Tuque vale, gentis priscae fortissime ductor,
                                Ultime Scotorum, no ultime Grame, vale.

			 Oh, last and best of Scots! who didst maintain
		 Thy country's freedom from a foreign reign;
			 New people fill the land, now thou art gone,
			 New gods the temples, and new kings the throne.
			 Scotland and thou did each in other live ;
			 Nor would'st thou her, nor could she survive.
			 Farewell, who dying didst support the state,
                            And could'st not fall but with thy countrx's fate.


