
			LANGHOLM.                                   421


are in the possession of the family of the late Mr Little, Baron Bailie
of Langholm.
	Witches.--Near the old Castle of Langholm, a place is pointed
out where several reputed witches were burnt in the last century.
It is told of the Eskdale witches, some of whom acted as mid-
wives, that they had the power of transferring the labour of child-
birth from the mother to the father.
	Branks.--This was an instrument of punishment kept by the
chief magistrate, for restraining the tongue. The branks was
in the form of a head-piece, that opens and incloses the head of
the culprit,--while an iron, sharp as a chisel, enters the mouth and
subdues the more dreadful weapon within. Dr Plot, the learned
historian of Staffordshire, has given a minute description and figure
of this instrument; and adds, that he looks upon it " as much to
be preferred to the ducking-stool, which not only endangers the
health of the party, but also gives the tongue liberty 'twixt every
dip, to neither of which this is at all liable." When husbands un-
fortunately happened to have scolding wives, they subjected the
heads of the offenders to this instrument, and led them through the
town exposed to the ridicule of the people.
	It may be mentioned, that it was on Langholm Holm, " that
Johnnie Armstrong of Gilnockie, and his gallant companie of
thirty-six men, when going to meet King James V., ran their horse
and brak their spears, when the ladies lookit frae their lofty win-
dows,-saying, God send our men well back again." At Carlenrig,
near Moss Paul, on the road betwixt LaIlgholm and Hawick, where
John and his gallant followers were executed, their graves are point-
ed out in the solitary churchyard of that place.
	Modern Buildings.--The principal mansion-houses are, Lang-
holm Lodge, belonging to His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, and
Broomholm House, the residence of George Maxwell, Esq. Both
of these residences are delightfully situated on the banks of the
Esk, in the, immediate neighbourhood of Langholm. Near to Lang-
holm Lodge, there is a handsome bridge of 100 feet span, which
highly improves the prospect, and is an object of great attraction
to travellers as they enter the town by the north.

<TABLE=Population>
			III.-POPULATION.
	The population in 1755 amounted to	1833
                          1791,                 2540
                          1801,                 2536
                          1811,                 2636
                          1821,                 2957
	  And in 1831, males 1269, females 1407	2676


