

                       ON THE COUNTY OF SUTHERLAND.                   215

        Eanaig, from the Ross hills, and Cassley, and Shin, two large
        Sutherland rivers.  After the junction of these streams, their
        united waters are generally called the Kyle of Sutherland; and
        immediately above Bonar, where the Kyle is crossed by an elegant
        iron bridge, having one arch of 150 feet span, the River Carron
        from Ross-shire flows into it.  The river thus augmented widens
        considerably; and downwards, to Tarbetness, it is now generally
        named the Dornoch Frith, although, for several centuries, it was
        known as the River of Portnaculter.  The tide flows up to a point
        at a short distance above the junction of the Cassley and Oykill,
        and vessels of small burden navigate tbe frith up to Bonar Bridge,
        although the formidable sand-banks, known as the Gizzen Briggs,
        at the entrance of the frith, formed by the descending stream being
        here first resisted by the flowing tides from the Moray Frith, ren-
        ders the entrance into the frith intricate at all times, and often
        very dangerous.  The Cassley and the Shin are both large and.
        handsome rivers, the former flowing along a lengthened valley of
        the same name, and the latter issuing out of Loch Shin, and hav-
        ing a course of six miles.  There are other three rivers along the
        east and south coast of the county.  The River Fleet forms an
        estuary, now known as the Little Ferry, but formerly called the
        River Unes.  The upper part of the Fleet, which runs through
        Strathfleet, is an active rivulet, which, as it increases in size, flows
        with sluggish stream for several miles before it reaches the opening
        of the estuary.  The next river is the Brora, having a course of
        about five miles from Loch Brora, before it enters the sea at the
        village of the same name; and the only other river in this quarter
        is the handsome stream of tbp Helmsdale, which, after a course
        of upwards of twenty miles through the Strath of Kildonan, falls
        into the sea at Helmsdale.
           On the north coast of the count the river of Hallodale, having
        a course of about twenty miles through the strath of the same
        name, joins the North Sea at the bay of the Tor of Bighouse,
        near the boundary with Caithness.  The next river westward is
        rather a small one, the Stratby, flowing from a lake of the same
        name.  Further on, the Naver enters the sea at a sandy bay of
        the coast.  This river has a cnurse of about thirty miles, from
        Loch Naver, through the strath of that name, and is about the
        same size as the Helmsdale. The Borgie or Torrisdale, river,
        a much smaller stream, flows into the sea, within one mile's dis-
        tance from the mouth of the Naver; but farther westward, as far as


