
196			LANARKSHIRE.

office. There are now twenty-two licensed pawnbrokers in the
city.
	River Clyde.--As the River Clyde, in a commercial point of
view, is of the utmost importance, not only to Glasgow, but to the
western district of Scotland, a short sketch of its improvements
must be interesing. In the beginning of the sixteenth century,
the channel of the river for about thirteen miles below Glasgow
was so incommoded by fords and shoals as to be scarcely naviga-
ble even for small craft. But in 1556, the inhabitants of the
burghs of Glasgow, Renfrew, and Dumbarton, entered into an
agreement to excavate the river for six weeks alternately, with the
view of removing the ford at Dumbuck and some lesser fords,
By the exertions of these parties, small flat-bottomed craft were
brought up to the Broomielaw at Glasgow, which was then only a
landing shore: there being no regular harbour for more than a
hundred years after that period. In 1653, the merchants of Glas-
gow had their shipping harbour at the bailiery of Cunningham in
Ayrshire; but that port being distant, and the land carriage expen-
sive, the magistrates of Glasgow treated with the magistrates of Dum-
barton. After much discussion the negotation was broken up, the
magistrates of Dumbarton considering that the great influx of ma-
riners would "raise the price of provisions to the inhabitants." The
magistrates of Glasgow then turned their attention to the Troon;
and here they were again repulsed from a similar reason. In 1662,
however, they succeed in purchasing thirteen acres of ground from
Sir Robert Maxwell of Newark, on which they laid out the town of
Port-Glasgow, built harbours, and made the first dry or graving dock
in Scotland. Soon after the Revolution in 1688, a quay was formed
at the Broomielaw, at the expense of 30,000 merks Scots, or
St Enoch's Burn, and the west at Robertson Street.
	The magistrates having got a shipping port and quay, direct-
ed Mr Smeaton, the celebrated engineer, to inspect the river, and
report his opinion. On the 13th of September 1755, he reported
inter alia, that the river at the ford at the Point House, about two
miles below Glasgow, was only one foot three inches deep at low
water, and three feet eight inches at high water. He proposed
that a lock and dam should be made at the Marlin-ford, in order
to secure four and a half feet water up to the quay at Glasgow.
The lock was to be seventh feet long, and eighteen feet wide, and
so deep as to take in a flat-bottomed lighter, at four and a-half


