
524                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of colliers.  The remaining schools are on private adventure, and
the fees are in general extremely moderate.  At the grammar
school, the average fee in 1843 was 15s. per quarter;-at one of
the adventure schools, 8s.;--and the other schools may be from
1s. to 5s. per quarter.
  The respectable portion of the inhabitants are alive to the be-
nefits of a good education;-but a great many are very indiffe-
rent.  No part of the parish is so distant from the school as to
prevent attendance;-but a systematic arrangement and allocation
of the business of education, with well-qualified teachers, is more
wanted here than any addition to the present number of schools.
It may not be easy to determine the precise effiect of a good scrip-
tural-education in individual cases,-but there can be no doubt
that its direct influence, as well as its general tendency, is most
beneficial.

  Masters of the Grammar School.-
  1. Andrew Allan, 1582. He was teacher and reader.
  2. Mr George Hastie, 1591. " He might assist the minister in
preaching, if provision could be got for him." There was to be
only one school in the town.
  3. Mr Robert Abercrombie, 1619-1622.  He was also a
preacher.
  After Mr Abercrombie there bad been no schoolmaster for a
long time from want of provision. An allowance of 250 merks
per annum, besides house and garden, was made by the Lord of
Bucclench to the master, and 50 merks for a doctor or assistant.
  4. Mr Ninian Douglas, on the 11th November 1647, was re-
commended by the Presbytery to be master of the school; but
being accused of drunkenness, swearing, &c. he was deposed on
the 15th March 1655.
  5. Mr Thomas Chambers, 1661.  Presbytery Records, 15th
August 1661.-"At a visitation, inter alia, the minister, heritors,
and elders, being enquired about Mr Thomas Chambers, school-
master, his diligence, painfulness, and conversation, they answered
that they would have him admonished and exhorted to more dili-
gence, and painful onwaiting on his charge.  The presbytery ad-
monished him, and did exhort him to more diligence, and to ex-
ereise more authority over the children, and to beware of anything
that might be a hindrance to him in the exercise of any part of his
charge."



