
			 REDGORTON.                           171

peror Severus in 209, in his celebrated war with the Caledonians,
in which he lost so many men. The treaty with Caracalla in 211,
finally deprived the Romans of all the country to the north of the
Clyde, if not of the Solway. From first to last, therefore, the
Romans were hn possession of Orrea for upwards of 125 years.
  The bridge at the mouth of the Almond was the only one
across the Tay which the Romans possessed; which rendered the
station of Orrea at all times of great importance, as, from the line
of their approach, it formed the key to the possession of the fer-
tile valleys of Strathmore and Gowrie, and all the country to the
east of the river.
   About two miles above the station of Orrea, at Pitcairn, on the
banks of the Almond, there are the distinct remains of a camp,
which is called the Roman Camp, but which, from its being
not square but round, was certainly not Roman.  It may, not im-
probably, however, have been a camp of the natives, for the pur-
pose of watching the motions of the Romans, who had so distin-
guished a station in the vicinity. If the occupation of Orrea was
of importance to the Romans, it could be of no inferior importance
to the natives, especially after the erection of the bridge across
the Tay; because the possession of that one station would have
cut off the retreat of the Roman troops, who had crossed the river,
and have secured to the British the whole country to the east.
It is natural, therefore, to think that efforts were not wanting to
disturb the enemy in the possession of this station. It was pro-
bably, then, from this place that the attempt was madd, in the ab-
sence of Agricola, by the united forces of the Picts and Scots, to
surprise the ninth legion, which was almost successful, and which,
but for the unexpected return of Agricola himself, would have been
entirely so. * If the camp at Pitcairn was formed with the same
intention, it was skillfully selected, and well adapted to the object in
view. It is situated upon an eminence, commanding a view, not in-
deed of Orrea itself, but of the whole line of approach to that station
for several miles; having the steep bank of the Almond as a de-
fence to the south; and a deep ravine, descending to the very bed
of the river, interposed betwixt it and Orrea, to the east, with
room to draw up an army on the level ground betwixt the camp
and the ravine.

<FOOTNOTE>Sibbald has supposed that it was at Loch Ore that the attack was made upon
the ninth legion. Is it possible that he has been misled by the similarity of the
name of the loch to Orrea? At all events, it was certainly quite impossible that
Agricola could hear of an attack made in the night-time at Loch Ore, in his camp in
the parish of Carnock, and arrive with his troops at the scene of action, before morn-
ning, as Chalmers supposes.


