
                             ALVA.                              189

A. D. 1276. The well is still within the limits of the minister's
glebe, and continues to send forth a stream of excellent water ;
but the course is almost choked up with weeds and rushes; the
consecrated name has long been forgotten ; and its neglected state
calls loudly upon the tutelar saint, or some Catholic devotee, to rescue
its name from oblivion, and disclose again its healing virtues. About
twenty years after the Reformation, and when Stirling, and a few
parishes around it, were provided with stated pastors, the presby-
tery of Stirling was erected on the 8th day of August 1581, in
consequence of an order from the General Assembly to that effect.
From 1581, till the year 1632, this parish was united to the neigh-
bouring one of Tillicoultry-the minister of Alva officiating in both.
The livings of both hardly afforded a decent subsistence; and
the stipend of Alva did not exceed 300 merks Scots, or L. 16, 13s.
4d. Sterling.
   The fabric of the present church was built in 1632 by Alexander
Bruce, then proprietor of Alva, who afterwards making a small ad-
dition to the stipend, procured its disjunction from Tillicoultry.
The church stands a little to the east of the village, upon an
eminence, commanding a fine view of the valley of Devon. The
fabric is in excellent condition, but long after it was built it re-
mained in an unfinished state-the walls and roofs, were unplastered
-the windows small and ill situated-and the seats in a ruinous con-
dition. In the year 1815, at the expense of James Raymond John-
stone, Esq. it was wholly rebuilt, and fitted up properly within, so
as to accommodate 586 sitters, estimated at I8 inches for each, and
at present it is a comfortable and elegant place of worship.
   The pews are allotted by the heritor rent-free to his tenants and
feuars, and the remainder, with the communion table seats, are
open to the villagers.
   The church-yard is beside the church, finely sequestered from
the bustle and business of men, and contains some epitaphs of the
" rude forefathers of the hamlet," sufficiently curious.
   The present manse is near the church, and was built in the
year 1762, upon a very neat and commodious plan.
   In the year 1765, Lord Alva, then proprietor of the barony, sen-
sible of the smallness of the living, very generously, and without
any application from the incumbent, gave an augmentation in
victual, to the amount of L. 22 Sterling, at the usual conversion ;
by which the stipend consisted of L.34, Is. 9d. Sterling, in money,
including the allowance for communion elements, together with 40
bolls of barley, and 32 bolls of meal. The Rev. Mr Duncan, to


