
			KELTON.                             177

rent reluctance in children to allow their aged parents and rela-
tions to come upon the parish.
	There is not much private charity now exercised in the parish,
as it is through incosistent with a main object of so large an an-
nual expenditure upon the poor, the suppresion of vagrancy and
public begging. Many families, however, are still favoured with
a weekly visit from the poor persons whom they were in the habit
of serving before the introduction of the poor rate; and the col-
lections at the church have not been sensibly deminished.
        Fairs.-There are seven fairs held in the parish in the course
of the year, viz. at Castle Douglas, for the sale of horses, on the
11th February if it happen to be a Monday, if not, on the Mon-
day following; at Castle Douglas, for horses and hiring, on the
23d March, or Monday after; at Castle Douglas, for the sale
of hoggets, on the first Monday of April; at Keltonhill, for
horses and hiring, on the 17th June, O. S.; at Castle Douglas,
for lambs, on the Monday before the fair of Minniehive, which
is held on the second Friday of August; at Castle Douglas, for
horses nad hiring, on the 23d September or Monday after; and
at Castle Douglas for horses, on the Monday after the 13th No-
vember, O. S.
	Formerly all these fairs were held at Kelton hill; but, with the
exception of that in June, they have been transferred to Castle
Douglas, the multiplication of places of entertainment, and, espe-
cially, the convenience of the banks, having rendered the charge
advisable, and even necessary.
        Inns, Alehouses, &c.-There are twenty-three inns and alehouses
in the parish, besides two grocers' shops, licensed to retail ardent
spirits,-a number greatly exceeding the wants of the population.
Several such houses have been closed within the last three years,
and it is greatly to be desired that their number were still farther
reduced. Of this, however, there appears a great probability, as
the use of ardent spirits has been considerably deminished, since
public attention began to be directed to the causd of temperance,
and several of these houses are understood to be doing very little
business, and very little harm. Upon the whole, they do less in-
jury to he morals of the people than, at first sight, is apt to be
supposed; for a considerable number of them are places of enter-
tainment for farmers and dealers attending the fairs nad markets,
and are very little frequented except on these occasions.
        Fuel.-Coal is the fuel commonly used in the parish. It is
	KIRKCUDBRIGHT.				   M


