
                    KILMARTIN.                           565

  The first Presbyterian minister settled in the parish was Mr
Donald Campbell in 1639. He was one of the Campbells of
Auchanellan. He was succeeded by Mr John Duncanson in 1655.
--The next incumbent was Mr William McLachlan, an Episco-
palian, who died about the year 1686. A tablet bearing his name
and that of some of his family, together with the fore-mentioned
date, is still extant in the churchyard of Kilmartin.--Mr Dugald
Campbell was ordained and admitted minister of Kilmartin by the
synod of Argyle, on the third of January 1690.--Mr Duncan
Campbell, translated from the parish of Kilchrenan, was settled at
Kilmartin on the 3d June 1724, and died on the 28th September
1736.--Mr Archibald Lambie, his successor, was ordained and
admitted minister of Kilmartin on the 12th July 1738, and died
in 1767.--On the 9th August 1768, Mr Hugh Campbell, trans-
lated from the parish of South Knapdale, was settled minister of
this parish. He was one of the Campbells of Islandree, and died
1st February 1803.--His successor, Mr Hugh Dewar, was ad-
mitted minister of the parish on the 17th April 1804, and died
19th April 1836.--The present incumbent was ordained and ad-
mitted on the 28th September 1836.
  The glebe is four and a half acres arable, with the grazing of
four soums on the farm of Kilmartin, in lieu of which, the pro-
prietor gives a piece of land contiguous to the glebe. The whole
may be valued at L.15 Sterling yearly rent.
  The modified stipend is twelve cbalders, half meal, half bear,
with L.8, 6s. Sd. for communion elements. The teinds are not
exhausted.
  Education.--The parish school is situated at Kilmartin, near
the church. The schoolhouse and schoolmaster's dwelling-house
are under one roof, and are very commodious and comfortable.
The salary is L.34, 4s. 5d. Sterling, with L.2, 15s. 7 1/2d., being
the yearly interest of a sum mortified by the late Alexander
Campbell, Esq. of Kilmartin, in support of the parish school.
The branches usually taught, are English and Gaelic reading,
writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping. Geography and naviga-
tion, as also Latin and Greek, are occasionally taught.  There
are, besides, two schools, one at each extremity of the parish, for
the accommodation of the younger children who are unable, from
the distance, to attend the parish school Both the teachers of
these schools receive a yearly allowance from Mr Malcolm of
Poltalloch, in addition to the school fees.
  A girl school of industry has lately been established by Mr


