
     of Sanquhar.

Robert.  The former went abroad when young, turned out
a most accomplished character, both in learning and in all sort
of exercises, and was commonly known by the name of the Ad-
mirable Crichton.-The second son, Robert, was known by
the name of Sir Robert Crichton of Cluny, an estate his father
had acquired in Perthshire, and where he resided.  In the
year 1592 he sold Elliock to the family of Dalziel, afterwards
Earls of Carnwath.  The Hon. James Veitch, present proprie-
tor of Elliock, is one of the senators of the college of justice.
   The condition of the people, like that of others in paral-
lel circumstances, may be called a middle state betwixt bar-
barism and refinement.  They have arrived at a considerable
degree of civilization, and possess the abilities of making still
farther improvement.  They are, with a few exceptions,
which are to be found in every age and in every society, an in-
dustrious, rational and religious set of people, regular in at-
tendance upon divine ordinances, and pay a proper regard to
the duties of social life.  They are neither very rich, nor very
poor, and possess a competent share of the comforts, but none
of the luxuries of life.  It must, indeed, be acknowledged
that the frequent collision of political influence in the burgh,
is an enemy to their peace, and tends to relax every social, mo-
ral and religious obligation, and as these are relaxed, corrup-
tion spreads its baneful influence.  No doubt, the substitution of
dram instead of ale-houses, has the same pernicious tendency.
The almost continual flux and reflux of vagrants through San-
quhar, which is a thorough-fare for both ends of the kingdom,
acts also as a strong corrosive on the morals of the people.
But upon the whole, their character is respectable, hospitable
to strangers, humane to the distressed, active in their station,
decent in their apparel, and generally contented with the al-
lotments of providence.  Agriculture, and especially the pas-
toral life, are favourable to that integrity and simplicy of man-
ners which characterize them.

