
                         PETERHEAD.                           357

viz. wbether the feuars in the town were obliged to bear a share
of the expense along with the landward beritors, which was liti-
gated in the Court of Session and House of Peers.  It was finally
decided that the building of the church was a parochial burden,
and that the heritors and feuars were liable in this burden accord-
ing to their real rents.  The church is in good repair, and has
lately been lighted with gas.
   The Episcopal Chapel, in Merchant Street, is a very neat
building, having a Gothic front of axe-dressed granite.  It was
built in 1814, and is calculated to contain 800 sitters.
   The present Cross was erected in 1832, partly by voluntary,
subscription, on the occasion of the inhabitants obtaining the pri-
vilege of voting for a Member of Parliament.  It is a Tuscan
pillar of granite, surmounted by the arms of Earl Marischall, the
founder of the town.
  There are various public halls in the town for the accommoda-
tion of those who require them: a reading-room, a billiard-room,
and hot and cold baths.
  The houses, both in the town and parish, are in general built
of granite, of excellent qxtaliky and colour, found in the neighbour-
hood.  Many of the fronts are ashlar, pick-dressed, while others
are axe-dressed and closely jointed.
   Other Buildings.-There are two mills within the town, one im-
pelled by wind and the other by steam, for sawing timber.  There
are also two mills in the parish for manufacturing grain, chiefly
for the London market; one at Ravenscrag, and the other at In-
vernettie, both of which carry on a considerable trade,  On the
estate of Boddam there is a spinning and carding-mill, impelled
partly by water and partly by steam.

                        III.-POPULATION.
   Although there does not appear to have been any official record
of the population previous to the year 1764, Dr Moir, from data
contained in the charter of creation, estimated the inhabitants at
that time, 1593, to amount to 56,  From an anonymous manu-
cript, he found that in 1727 they amounted to 900.

<TABLE>
      In 1764 there were in the town,       -     -     -    1266
                                landward part of parish,     1154
                                                       Total,----2420
      In 1769 there were in the town,        -     -     -   1518
                                landward part of parish,     1188
                                                       Total,----2706
      In 1790 there were in the town,     -     -     -      2550


