
94                        SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

having been shaped by tools, the acute angle being always upper-
most.
   There are also some subterraneous buildings, called "Leabidh
fholaich," i. e. hiding-places : one of these, lately discovered at the
west side of Loch Eriboll Ferry, is about 40 feet long, 6 feet
high, and about 6 feet wide, built of dry stone, and covered over
by flags ; the descent is by regular steps, and the entrance is co-
vered by a flag. It is still in good preservation.-There are seve-
ral large stones placed on end, either in a circular or elliptical form,
which appear to have been places of sepulture ; but no traces of
writing have been seen on any of these.-Tumuli, and heaps of
stones, called "cairns," are of frequent occurrence.  In one of
these, called "Cnoc na cnamham," i. e. the hill of bones, near
Keoldale, a small brass elliptical cockade was found two years ago,
and a small polished bone, supposed to be used for fastening the
military plaid. The tradition is, that it contains the remains of
those who fell in battle.-Heads of arrows are occasionally found
in the mosses ; they are from two to three inches long, formed of
a brown, red, or whitish flint-like stone.
   Buildings.  There is a pretty large mansion-house at Balnakiel,
where some of the Lords of Reay occasionally resided. It was
built about ninety years ago. Another building of importance is
the Light-house at Cape Wrath, the tower of which is fifty feet
high. The building is altogether 350 feet above the level of the
sea. It was built in 1827 of granite found at the Cape. Previ-
ous to its erection, seldom a winter passed without one or more
wrecks; but these are now of rare occurrence. At Rispond
there is a good dwelling-house, and a pretty extensive range of
houses and sheds for the salmon-boiling,and herring-fishing. There
is also a pier for sloops of ordinary size to load their cargoes.-The
houses of the tackstmen merit no particular notice. Those of the
small tenants and cottars are all built of turf or dry stone, plaster-
ed on the inside with clay, with the exception of two or three in
some hamlets whose western gable has a vent and chimney-stalk.

<FOOTNOTE>See Antiquities and Scenery in Scotland by Rev. Charles Cordiner of Banff,
         and Argricultural Survey of the County of Sutherland, 1808, Appendix.
          The noted Donald M' Leed, alias Mac Mhorchie-ic-mhoir, who was the
         Beh Ray of the North, always carried his bow and arrows, either to the field or the
         forest. He died in 1623. His figure, represented in relief on the gravestone over
         his vault in the church of Dorness, exhibits him with his bow and arrow. A draw-
         ing of this vault, and the gravestone and inscription, was lately executed by order of
         the Duke of Sutherland.- For further particulars of the history and character of this
         freeboster, see former Statistical Account of the Parish of Edderachillis, and Mac-
         kay's History of the Mackays.



