
650                        ARGYLESHIRE.

from Mull, who effected a landing, were met by the Macdonalds
on the side of Lochgruinard, when a bloody, and to the Macleans,
a disastrous, battle was fought.  Their leader fell in the action,
his followers gave way, a party of whom took refuge in the church
of Kilnave, at a little distance from the field of battle.  To this
asylum they were pursued by the victorious Macdonalds, who,
setting fire to the church, and at the same time preventing the
escape of the Macleans, effected their destruction with the build-
ing, which stands to this day a roofless monument of the event.
Maclean's body was buried in the church of Kilchoman ; but, by
a partial change in the site of the new church, his grave-stone is
outside, and close by the south-east corner.
   Land-owners.-Walter F. Campbell of Islay, M. P.; Walter
Campbell of Sunderland; Colin Campbell of Balinaby.
  Parochial Registers.-These have been kept in this parish only
since 1822. For several years a register of marriages and bap-
tisms was regularly kept; but since the Parliamentary churches,
with the districts annexed, were erected into parishes quoad sacra,
the minister at Portnahaven baptizes and marries without having
the names of parties entered in the parish register.
    Antiquities.-A very handsome cross stands in the churchyard.
On one side is a representation of the Saviour on the cross, with
an illegible inscription underneath.  On the other is a beautifully
cut Runic knot. Its history is unknown.
   There are five churches in ruins in the parish; to each of these
a burying-ground is attached, some of which are used as such to
this day. At one or two of them there is a cross, and the fonts
are in their original position. One of these ruins is on Island-nave,
at the north point of the parish, and distant from it about one
mile. To this a very extensive burying-ground is attached. The
grave-stones are made of clay slate, handsomely formed, many of
them beautifully cut, and several with figures in relief. These
mark the resting-place of persons of some note in their day, but
of whom no other memorial is known.
   There are also several obelisks. The one on the hill near Ba-
linaby house is the largest; it bears no mark of sculpture; it is
18 feet above the surface. Above forty years ago, Captain Bur-
gess of the Savage Sloop of War, with a party of his crew, dug up
part of the sand-hill near it, where they found one or two swords,
a pike-head, and many human bones. The arms they carried
away: the ground has since lain undisturbed.


