
     Of Kirkmichael.

   Antiquities, Eminent Men, etc.-No crosses, no obelisks, no
remains of antiquity have been hitherto discovered in this pa-
rish.  That it was ever visited by the Romans, is not proba-
ble.  In that expedition, in which Severus lost  50,000 men,
as recorded by the abbreviator of Dio Cassius, no vestige ex-
ists that any part of his army pursued their rout through the
mountains and defiles of Strath-ath-fhin:  no marks of en-
campments are to be seen; there is no tradition, that either
Roman urns, or Roman coins have been ever discovered.  In
the year 1715, a small fort was erected in the southern ex-
tremity, but soon after, it was abandoned, and now lies in
ruins*.

     VOL. XII. 3 K

<FOOTNOTE>

wearied of the inactivity of rural retirement, she then married, and made her
husband enlist in the Royal Highlanders, at the commencement of the war in
1756.  With him she navigated the Atlantic, and sallied forth on American
groung in quest of adventures, equally prepared to meet her friends, or encoun-
ter her enemies, in the fields of Venus or Mars, as occasion offered.  At the
conclusion of the war, she revisited her native country.  After a variety of
vicissitudes in Germany, France, Holland, England, Ireland, Scotland, Ame-
rica, and the West Indies, her anchor is now moored on dry land in the village
of Tammtoul.  It might be imagined, that such extremes of climate, such dis-
cordant modes of living, such ascents and declivities, so many rugged paths, so
many severe brushes, as she must have experienced in her progress through life,
would have impaired her health, especially when it is considered, that she added
24 children to the aggregate of general births, besides some homunculi that
stopped short in their passage.  Wonderfull, however, as it may appear, at this
moment she is as fit for her usual active life as ever; and except 2 or 3 grey hairs
vegetating from a mole upon one of her cheeks, that formerly set off a high
ruddy complexion, she still retains all the apparent freshness and vigour of
youth.
*The great road that passes through the country, to facilitate the march of
the troops between Perth and Fort-George, was not made till the year 1754:
and now the stages are so bad, that few travel it.  The roads here, in general,
are wretched beyond description; and yet the people, in terms of the statute,
are annually called out to work at them.  This only can be imputed to their
indolence, their want of the necessary implements, and the ignorance, or in-


