
66			AYRSHIRE.

gentlemen of Ayr. They are about a dozen in number, and they
are not less distinguished as a body for their disinterested huma-
nity to the poor, than they are for urbanity of manners, and lite-
rary and professional attainments.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Internal Communication.--Ayr is the only town in the parish,
and there is no collection of houses in the country district, of such
extent as even to deserve the name of village. But there is no
provincial town that enjoys more amply the means and facilities of
communication with other places, both by sea and land. There are
regular packets and traders from the harbour, to Liverpool, Glas-
gow, Dublin, &c. at all times of the year; and in summer, steam-
boats sail betwixt this and Glasgow every day, communicat-
ing with the other towns along the coast. A steam-boat sails also
every Saturday to Stranraer, touching at Ayr, and returns on the
Monday following, thereby affording the means of conveyance to and
from Ireland. There are arrivals of the mail from London once,
and from Glasgow and Edinburgh twice, every day, and depart-
ures as often, and a mail-coach has lately been started from Glas-
gow for Ireland, through Ayr, which affords a great convenience
to the whole of this western district. A traveller has it in his
power to go from this to Edinburgh by coach, at five different
times every lawful day, and to arrive in Ayr from the cast by near-
ly as many opportunities. An Edinburgh coach runs daily by
Loudon hill, Strathaven, &c. thus opening up a district of country
with which there was formerly little communication. There are
also coaches twice a-week or oftener, to all the inland towns in the
district, of any note, Irvine, Maybole, Girvan, Cumnock, and Dal-
mellington; and through the last, there is a regular stage-coach
thrice every week to Dumfries during the summer months. The
roads in the parish are kept in excellent order, as there is a su-
perintendent with a liberal salary, appointed by the trustees to pre-
serve them in proper condition. There is a plan going forward
at present, to form a rail-road betwixt Ayr and Glasgow, and an-
other betwixt Glasgow and Edinburgh, &c. which will render the
means of conveyance still more expeditious and easy, both for pas-
sengers and goods. The money necessary for this great and im-
portant undertaking has been already subscribed in shares, and
the sanction of Parliament is only wanted to commence the work,
which will certainly tend in many ways to the advantages of Ayr,


