
GOLSPIE.                                        27

but their colours are various,-the sandstone being in some cases
gray, in sorne white, and in others iron-brown.
"In general the breccias, in these transition mountains" con-
tain fragments of granite, porphyry, and micaceous schist, connect-
ed by silicious cement; but, in a few cases, they contain fragments
of marble, with a calcareous cement.  A very remarkable breccia
occurs at Golspie, near the inn, and at the east side of the burn,
and a still purer one near Rhives, in which small blocks of marble
are inserted.  These calcareous brecciAs. in, general, are in a state,
of decomposition, and a sort of marl is formed'from the decay.
These rocks might, with as much propriety, be called secondary as
transition rocks ; for though in some parts they abound in' crys-
talline matter, yet in others they are almost entirely composed of
fragments.  I have given them the name of transition by courtesy.
Rocks of the rare kind are often associated with greywacke and
crystalline stone; and they are placed immediately upon the pri-
mary rocks.  I have never seen any greywacke or transition lime-
stone in Sutherland.
"The secondary rocks occupy but a small space, and are pro-
bably incumbent on the red sandstone or breccia, described.  They
occur in regular strata; but their arrangement is very much dis-
turbed.  They appear to have been originally deposited, or formed
parallel to the horizon; but in most places this parallelism has
been disturbed, either by the subsidence or the elevation part of
the strata; so that there are frequently faults or abruptions of the
different rocks, which have given to the different parts of the, strata
different inclinations.
The true secondary strata of Sutherland," i. e. of the  east
coast," occupy an extent of six or seven miles, filling up a sort of
basin between the transition hills, in the neighbourbood of Dun-
robin, and those in the parish of Loth.  The upper Stratum is
a sandstone of different degrees of hardness, and composed of sili-
cious sand, cemented by silicious matter.  Below this occars an
aluminous shale, containing pyritous matter, carbonaceous matter,
the remains of marine animals,* and of land vegetables.  Beneath
this shale, or rather alternating with it, a stratum occurs, contain-
ing in some of its parts calcareous matter, and p sing int6 lime.-

f<FOOTNOTE>The reefs at Dunrobin contain the remains of the following bivalve shell fishes,:-
Gryphwa, Mitering slightly from G. obliquata   Modiola, new species, longitudinally
striated ;Pecten, new species, striated; Plagiostoma duplicata; Terebratula  media;
a new species Of gibbose shell resembling Unio;  Venus undescribed. -See Mur-
chison on Strata of Golitic Series, &c. Trans.  Geol. Soc.


