
                      LOGIE-BUCHAN.                         807

example, as, by a letter from the Countess of Errol, dated 15th
May 1721, it appears he was still in communication with the
exiled family.  His picture is in the house of Auchinmacoy.
   It appears from Robertson's Index of scarce Charters, that the
Buchans of Auchmacoy were proprietors of that estate so far back
as the year 1318, holding it of the Earl of Buchan until the for-
feiture of the too powerful Cummings in the reign of King Ro-
bert Bruce.  In 1503, James IV. gave Andrew Buchan of Auch-
macoy a new charter, and erected his lands into a free barony,
which has been inherited by his lineal male descendants ever since.
Mr Buchan lately built an elegant turreted mansion, after a plan
by Mr Burn, Edinburgh.
   John Gordon Cumming Skene of Pitlurg and Dyce, proprietor
of Birness in this parish, claims even a higher antiquity for his fa-
mily than that of Auchmacoy, tracing their origin from Adam de
Gordun, who first settled in Scotland in 1057.  During the 785
years which have elapsed since that period, there have been, ac-
cording to Burke's History of the Commoners of Great Britain
and Ireland, twenty-seven clear and uninterrupted descents in the
lineal male line of Pitlurg, the present proprietor being the chief
representative of the family.
   I cannot here omit taking particular notice of one of the Pitlurg
family, who greatly distinguished himself as a literary character, I
mean Robert Gordon, commonly designated "Gordon of Stra-
loch," from his having purchased that estate lying in Formartine,
to which district he seems to have been very partial.  I notice
him the rather that I have in this account quoted so largely from
his most celebrated work, "Theatrum Scotiae."  He was born
in 1580, and educated at Marischal College, Aberdeen, of which
University he was the first graduate.
   At the request of King Charles I. in 1641, he undertook an
Atlas of the different counties of Scotland; and by two Acts of
the Scottish Parliament, was, on that account, exempted from mi-
litary burdens, while his labours were held in such general estima-
tion, that he received a recommendation from the General Assem-
bly to the clergy, to give him all the assistance in their power in the
execution of his work.  This undertaking, the first of the kind in
Scotland made from actual survey, was completed in 1648, and
published by the Bleaus of Amsterdam, and to this day remains a
monument of his industry and accurate knowledge of practical
mathematics.  Mr Gordon wrote several other works, some of


