
82                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

mediately north from the old town of Dollar, is distinctly different
from the rocks which compose the great mass of the Ochills, it be-
ing that species of trap-rock known by the name of greenstone,
and commonly termed blue wbinstone, being much more crystal-
line in its structure than the common trap rocks adjoining.
   In the mountains of this parish, as well as in the whole range of the
Ochills, there are many veins in which copper and lead are found.
   From the face of the Ochills in this parish, the only class of
rocks found are those of the coal formation, abounding with va-
luable beds of coal. These rocks consist of, Ist, Sandstone of va-
rious shades of yellow, grey, and light red; 2d, Argillaceous schis-
tus, or shale of a dark colour, more or less mixed with sand ; 3d,
Argillaceous rock, commonly named fire-clay; 4th, Argillace-
ous ironstone in bands and balls, such as is commonly found
in the coal-fields of Scotland; 5th, Mountain limestone.
   The beds of coal are of various thickness, as will be afterwards
noticed, consisting of cubical coal, splint coal, smithy coal, and
anthracite, commonly known by the name of blind-coal.
   Below the mountain limestone, the strata of the coal formation
continue to a great and unexplored depth, containing many beds of
coal, but not workable to profit. Accompanying the coals, there are
valuable ironstones, fire-clay, sandstone, and thin beds of limestone.
Although the whole parish south of the Ochills consists of rocks
of the coal formation, that part of it which contains beds of coal
of a thickness workable to profit is comparatively small.
   There are two workable coal-fields in the parish, viz. that of
Dollar, next the Ochills, and Sheardale, upon the south side of the
river Devon. Each of these viewed as a whole is of an elliptical or
oval shape, termed a coal basin ; consequently the strata dip in
every direction towards the deepest part of the basin; but mining
engineers regard the chief or true dip to be northwards, as the strata
on the north side of the basins rise at a great angle with the horizon.
   These two coal-fields, so far as they contain coals workable to
profit, are completely disjoined; but they contain the same beds
of coal, and the same accompanying strata.
   The Dollar coal-field is ihe'west portion of an elliptical basin,
the trough or lowest part of which has its greatest length in a line
nearly parallel with the face of the Ochills, the eastern part of
which basin is found continuation across the east boundary of
the parish, and terminates in the parish of Muckhart. The greatest
length of the basin, measuring from the outburst or crop of the
main coal, which is the lowest workable coal above the mountain


