
52                       BERWICKSHIRE.

it contains in the imperial gallon, sulphate of lime, 57.750; com-
mon salt, 29.752; = 87.503.
   On the borders of the parish, at the Leet, there is a chalybeate
well which was furnished with a stone cover in 1780.  The supply
of water is pretty copious.  Its sp. gr. is 1.00237, and in summer
the temperature is 48°.  The solid contents are sulphate of lime,
common salt, and a minute portion of iron held in solution by car-
bonic acid.  At the east of Birgham Haugh there are springs ori-
ginating in the calcareous sandstone, which are impregnated with
bicarbonate of lime, and when they drop upon plants, leave a de-
posit by which elegant masses are formed.
   The river Tweed forms part of the south boundary of the pa-
rish, and separates it from Northumberland.  Its breadth on the
west side of the haugh by measurement is 114 yards, and its ave-
rage depth from 21/2 to 3 feet in summer.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The best section of the rocks of the
parish is seen at the Tweed, for the banks of that river rise in the
form of elevated cliffs, and reach a height of 50 feet in some
places above its level.  They consist of a dark slaty marly sand-
stone, which contains 25 per cent. of carbonate of lime and a white
compact sandstone dipping at a slight angle to the south-west.  At
Lochton, thin -beds of red massy gypsum with crystals imbedded,
(termed alabuss by the common people,) containing 1/2 per cent. of
peroxide of iron and white fibrous gypsum occur.
   Proceeding along the course of the river, the northern bank
continues high and precipitous for about a quarter of a-mile, when
its height gradually diminishes, and at Birgham Haugh exceeds
the level of the water only by a few feet.  Here the bed of the
Tweed consists of magnesian limestone, containing red hornstone
and crystals of calcareous spar.  The south bank is formed of al-
ternations of this rock and claystone porphyry, and these extend
for some miles up the river.  The sandstone of Eccles quarry,
which is three miles to the north of the Tweed, reposes on a simi-
lar rock.  The analysis of tolerably pure specimens from Hadden
rig gives nearly: Carbonate of lime, 6.25; carbonate of mag-
nesia, 5.25 = 11.5; or an atom of each, with some impurities;
a little silica, alumina, and iron.  A few shells have been observed
in this rock.  At the east end of the haugb, the sandstone is co-
vered by amygdaloid, containing green steatite and calcareous spar.
The upper portion resembles greenstone, and the cavities contain


