
			    CULTS.  	                559

under grass, with bent, broom and furze. Farther southwards
to the ascent of the lime hills, a soft black loam prevails, varying
from 10 to 20 inches in depth. On the sides and tops of the hills,
there is a strong clay, of excellent quality, capable of producing
the finest crops.
   Climate.-The climate is dry, mild, and salubrious. There
are no peculiar diseases incident to the locality. Agues, which
were prevalent sixty years ago, have now owing to the improved
cultivation of the country, entirely disappeared, and fevers have
of late years been neither so frequent nor so severe as in some of
the surrounding parishes. The highest winds are from the south-
west; the greatest storms of rain and snow from the east.
   Hydrography.-The river Eden divides part of this parish from
that of Collessie on the north, and traverses the other part. The
breadth of the river is about thirty-four feet. Its bed is level, its
course winding, and its current consequently slow and noiseless.
From the western to the eastern extremity of the parish, it has a
fall of about thirteen feet. It drives six mills, and in these is
made available in the summer season to the extent of not less than
twenty horse power. The Eden is joined by the Ballomill burn,
which, flowing southwards, divides Cults from Collessie on the
west. This stream, though only about fifteen feet in width, is,
during the summer months, of nearly equal power with the Eden
itself. Besides these, there are various streamlets of inconsiderable
size. One of them drives two thrashing-mills.
   Geology.-The parish of Cults presents a very interesting field
of observation to the geologist. Its geognostic appearances are,
for the most part, connected with the carboniferous or great in-
dependent coal formation. The rocks consist of sandstone, lime-
stone, shale, coal, and trap, and constitute the northern outcrop
of the coal metals. We shall begin our brief description with the
lowest of the sedimentary deposits, and consider the others in
their relative order of superpositions,-a method which will conduct
us gradually from the northern to the southern extremity of the
parish.
   The rock which prevails throughout the lower district is a yel-
low sandstone, sections of which may be observed along the banks,
of the Eden, and at the quarries of Hospital Mill and Bogle Hill.
It may likewise be observed cropping out on the Walton Hill, a
little to the east of the burying-place of the Crawfurd family, and


