
	424                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	instead of the Prince, they might have been half-way to London be-
	fore he had crossed Drimachtor. The English general, with his men
	on their journey northward, encamped one night near Dalwhinnie,
	with in this parish. On the same night, the Prince, without any ap-
        prehension of an unceremonious visit from the Lord Advocate, *
	was on the north side of Carry-yarrac. It is reported, that Sir John
	was very far from putting confidence in the prowess of his troops:
	and at day-break the following morning, he took a very simple
	method to trv the firmness of their nerves. Pointing to a clump
        of wood about two miles distant, he exclaimed, "yonder are the
	Highlanders." The result evinced that his companions in arms
	were, by no means, in a fighting humour; for it is said, that the
	whole seemed to tremble, from head to foot. A council ofwar was
	then held by the officers. It was there judged that the better part
	of valour was discretion, and, with the exception of one, they re-
	solved to let the Prince alone, and to march to Inverness. Much
	ridicule has been cast upon the hapless general, for this measure.
	But, most assuredly, had he gone to meet his opponent, the na-
	ture of the ground is such, that, in all probability, every individual
	would have been killed or taken prisoner. Sir John's advanced
	guard marched as far as Blargybeg, on the south side of the Spey,
	nearly opposite to the church of Laggan, and then directed their
	course to Inverness. This was soon made known to the High-
	landers; for a deserter from Cope's army fled to the. Prince, and
	told him what had happened. It was then suggested that the
	Prince and his followers should march along the Monadlia, and

        <FOOTNOTE>For some time after the Rebellion, the government was a very vigilant in dis-
	covering, and vindictive in punishing every symptom of attachment to the exiled fami-
	ly ; and numberless were the instances of ferocious and brutal vengeance exercised,
	often upon vdry slight grounds, against the faithful but deluded Jacobites. The Jaco-
	bites, on the other hand, were only exasperated by these proceedings; and were led to
	adopt ingenious devices to display their principles, without becoming entangled in the
	meshes of the law. We hope to be pardoned for relating the following anecdote: Mr
	Oliphant of Gask was a staunch adherent to the Stuarts; and regularly every even.
	ing, drank the healths of King James, Prince Charles, and Duke Henry, after din-
	ner,wboever happened to be present. One evening the Lord Justice-Clerk happened
	to be a guest at his table, and as Mr Oliphant's principles and practices were not
	a secret, his Lordship had no small degree of curiosity to see how his worthy host
	would comport himself, so as to manifest his loyal feelings towards his King de jure,
	without committing treason in such dangerous company against his sovereign de
	facto. He was not kept long in suspense upon the subjec, for after dinner, the first
	health proposed, was the King James,-nodding to his eldest son; next. Prince
	Charles,- nodding to his second son; lastly, the Duke Henry, nodding to his third son-
	This ingenious ceremony being gone through with the utmost gravity, to the great
	amusement of the amiable judge, who found that the laird was a match for the lawyer.
        his lordship, addressing his worthy host in a good natured manner, said, "Well, my
	friend, you sail as near the wind as any man I ever met with."


