
                       FARR.                               73

ous in this district as a clan. Farr and Strathnaver appear to
have been the principal residence of the Mackays during the
fifteenth, sixteenth, and part of the seventeeth centuries, and
that clan is still the most numerous in the parish. After the
Earls of Sutherland formed a marriage alliance with the Gordons,
some of that clan came to reside in Strathnaver,-so that at one
period, perhaps a hundred years age, there were few in the parish
but Mackays and Gordons. They are still the most numerous
names.
   In ancient times, the inhabitants were no doubt io a very barba-
rous state, living mostly by plunder, aod robbed of their property
in return. During the universal reign of Popery in Scotland, that
system of belief found its way to this parish, aod was lost probably
professed by all the inhabitants. The principles of the Reforma-
tion were, at an early period after theis introduction ioto Scotlaod,
embraced by the Earls of Sutherlaod, and the first Lord Reay,
and disseminated among the people of this parish. In consequence
of this happy change io religious principles and views, civilization
and good order advanced, aod the parishioners gradually became
a religious and moral population.
    The census of 1831, compared with the return in 1790, shows.
a decrease of 400 in the population. This was owing to the in-
troduction of the sheep-farming system. By its adoption, the
farmers and tenaots who occupied the straths and glens in the
interior were, in 1818 and 1819, all removed from these posses-
sions. Allotments of land were marked out on the sea-coast for
such as were thus removed. In these the greater number of the
removing tenaots settled; but several families quitted the parish
altogether, and thus diminished the population.
   The tenants, or lotters, on the sea-coast, live an their respective
farms or townships. In these townships, there are from eight to for-
ty-five houses, according to the quaotity of land; aod the houses
stand at a considerable distance from each other, not in the man-
ner of a regularly formed village.

<TABLE>

The number of families in the parish is                                         418
           of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                         314
                       chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft    11
The average number of bisths for the last seven years,                           55
                      marriages,                                                 17
No register of deaths is kept.
Average number of persons under fifteen years, about                            740
                          from fifteen to thirty,                               500

  As there was no register of births and baptisms kept previous to


