
558			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

He may, for a time, have been a monk of the abbey; but he was
a native of Halifax, in Yorkshire. He was, educated at Oxford,
and taught philosophy and mathematics at Paris. The Amalgest
of Ptolemy and the Commentaries of the Arabs were abridged
by him. His work was long famous as an elementary book, un-
der the title of De Sphaera Mundi. * He died at Paris 1235.+
   The only person eminent in learning or science, a native of this
parish, was Mr Charles Irvine, surgeon, mentioned in the former
Account, by Dr Johnston. He was son of the late William Ir- *
vine, Esq. of Gribton, and the person who, some years before
1790, discovered the method of rendering salt water fresh, for
which he was rewarded by Government with a grant of L. 5000.
   Antiquities--The Abbey.--There are now no remains of the
Abbey pf Holywood. It stood in the south-east corner of the pre-
sent burying-ground. It was founded by Dervorgilla, or Donagil-
la, daughter of Alan Lord of Galloway. She was the wife of
John Baliol, Lord of Castle Bernard, and mother of John Ba-
liol, declired King of the Scots by the decision of Edward I. 17th
Nov. 1292. Spotiswood states that Souls Seat, near Stranraer,
founded by Fergus Lord of Galloway, early in the twelfth cen-
tury, was the mother of Holywood and Whitehorn.
   The abbey belonged to the order of the Premonstratenses, found-
ed by Norbert, Archbishop of Magdebourg, in 1121. This or-
der was instituted in the diocese of Laon, in France; and the
monks pretend that the place was called Praemonstratum, because
it was divinely pointed out, divina revelatione proemonstratum. Six
monasteries in Scotland belonged to the monks of this order, viz.
Souls Seat, near Stranraer, Holywood, Whiteborn, Dryburgh,
Kingland in Galloway, and Ferne in Ross.+ An inspection of the
chartulary of the Bishoprick of Glasgow, which extends from the
year 1115 to the Reformation, and which is preserved in the Uni-
versity library, would, it is probable, afford much information re-
garding the chartulary of Holywood.
   The abbey, which had across the middle of the building a fine
Gothic arch, by which the oak roof was supported, and whose en-
trance was through a handsome semicircular arch, was taken down
in 1778, and the materials used for building the present parish
church. The two bells which belonged to the abbey are still the

<FOOTNOTE>A copy of this very scarce work is in the library of the present incumbent.
   Adam's Geography, Introduction, page 24.
   Spotiswood's Appendix to Hope's Minor Practicks, p. 431. Edinburgh, 1734.


