
     Statistical Account

to the number of 30,000, sometimes 40,000, to Newcastle.
It is an open boat* , manned with 6 men.  It brings no car-
go homewards; being open there is nothing to defend goods
from damage.  The present price at Newcastle is 2 s. per
hundred.  Oysters are carried to Glasgow by land.  Two
carriers, with 4 one-horse carts, come from Glasgow to Edin-
burgh with goods, and return loaded with oysters, which
they purchase at Preston-pans and Cockenzie.  The medium
is about 9000 in each cart.  Oysters are found on a strong
clay bottom, on rocks and stones, and sometimes, though
but thinly, in what is called by the fishers sea tathe.  There
last are of a very inferior quality.  Those caught nearest to
the town are usually the largest and sattest; hence the large
ones obtained the name of Pandoors, i.e. oysters caught at
the doors of the pans.  The sea water, a little freshened, is
reckoned the most nourishing to oysters.  This may be one
reason why those caught near to the town and shore are so
large.  Sand is prejudicial to them.  The fishers dredge
from 4 to 15 fathoms depth of water.  When they drive the
dredges they begin the oyster song, which they sing till the
dredge is hauled up.  The large oysters are picked out and
kept; thole that are too small for present use, are thrown
back into the sea.  An oyster is reckoned sizeable, when its
shell is an inch and a half in diameter.  Buckies, clams, sea-
urchins, star-fish, and corse-fish, are sound in the oyster beds.
The two last mentioned, especially the corse-fish, prey on
oysters, and likewise on muscles.  The scalps reach from the
shore about 6 miles into the Frith, and extend both to the
east and west of the boundaries of this parish.  In May the
oysters cast their spat or spawn.  They are sickly in June and

<FOOTNOTE>

*This voyage was once performed in 13 hours.  The boat
failed from Port Seton harbour at 3 o'clock in the morning, and
arrived at Newcastle at 4 in the afternoon of the same day.


