
                        LONGSIDE.                           865

duction of Teeswater bulls, for which very high prices have been
given, a cross breed, thought to possess some desirable qualities,
has been produced.  Some enterprising farmers have carried this
branch to a high pitch of excellence, particularly Messrs Robert
and John Hutchison, whose father, the proprietor of Cairngall,
has been long a very zealous agriculturist. *  Mr John Hutchison,
the younger brother, at Monyruy, obtained the second prize for a
Teeswater bull of his own rearing, at the Highland, Society's show
at Aberdeen in 1840.  The animal was immediately sold for
eighty guineas; and this year, three bull calves after him, about
six months old, brought the same gentleman L.100.  Very good
work horses, also, are reared throughout the parissh
   Both five and seven course shifts are used, but chiefly the for-
mer.  Almost the only grain raised is oats.  Very little barley is
sown ; and wheat does not appear to be suited to a climate so
often beclouded and moist.  Furrow-draining, at an expense of
about L. 6 an acre, has been tried with much success on several
farms; but deep cuts for water are often made, and sunk or tun-
nel drains laid with stones or hedge prunings, which act very ef-
fectually where there is a declivity.  The mossy soils, before be-
ing sown, are burned on the surface, and treated  with sand, Iime
or clay; and when the season is not too dry, maker a very good
return.  Except for these, very little sand is used, and lime sel-
dom, unless at the beginning of a new lease.  Bone-dust being
well adapted to the soil, has become indispensable for a turnip
crop, and is given, if alone, to the extent of 25 to 30 bushels an
acre; but ordinary dung is commonly laid in the bottom of the
furrow, over which is strewed a slight covering of mould, and then
bone-dust, at the-rate of about 15, bushels air acre.+
   Liferents have now ceased, and the leases are generally of
nineteen years' dnration, which it is believed, might be extended
with advantage to at least twenty-one years.  The farm-buildings,
though plain, are in general good and commodious.  The cattle-

<FOOTNOTE>The estate, when purchased by this gentleman nearly forty years ago, was little
better th waste moorland; but, by his energy and liberal outlay on its cultivation,
it has for some time been raised to a state of order and productiveness which few, if
any, ever expected it could have attained.   About a third of it is in old pasture, and
the whole is estimated at about four times the annual rent which it brought, when it
came first into Mr Hutchison's hand.
    The first, bone-mill in all this district was erected here by Mr Hutchison of
Cairngall, and is still used for his own supply.  The jaw-bones of whales, brought
home to Peterhead by his ships engaged in that fishery, are what he chiefly employs;
but they are not considered equally efficacious as manure with the tones of land
animals.
   ABERDEEN                                                3 I


