
                             NEWTON.                      559

weather, but our miners are made aware of approaching changes
by the state of matters below ground, since they are preceded by
an increased flow of water from crevices, and issue of gases and
foul air from among the minerals; and when very bad weather
is at hand, these last are emitted with such force as to make an
audible sound not to be mistaken.
   Hydrography.-As has been already noticed, the parish, at one
point, touches the Esk within the policy of the Duke of Buccleuch,
and the Powburn slightly intersects it at the north-west corner;
but in the parish otherwise, there can scarcely be said to be a
perennial streamlet, which, as compared with the country general-
ly, may be regarded as a peculiarity. The want of water, conse-
quently, in dry seasons is much felt, and puts the inhabitants, in
these cases, to no small inconvenience.
   Geology, &c.-The geology of this parish belongs exclusively
to the coal formation, which renders it unnecessary to enter into
detail, its general characteristics being well understood. The
ridge above mentioned is traversed in the western part of the
parish by numerous edge seams of this valuable mineral running
in general from north, 40 degrees east, to south, 40 degrees west,
and with the adjacent limestone on the north, dipping at an angle
of nearly 90. Of these there are at least fifteen of various thickness
from two to nine feet, and at no great distance there is the out-
crop of about a dozen flat seams which run from south-east and
north-east to north-west and south-west, with a dip of about 10 de-
grees. The first principal one of these from the surface, is the four-
foot or cubical coal, which terminates about the centre of the parish,
the greatest depth at which it has been found being about fifty yards
in sinking. The next in succession is the splint coal, about sixteen
yards deeper than the former, which varies from 5 to 7 feet in thick-
ness. The third is the rough coal, generally fourteen yards below the
splint, and varying from 4 1/2 to 5 1/2 feet in thickness. The fourth
is the beefy coal, which is found fourteen yards deeper than the
former, and in thickness varies from 3 feet 8 inches to 5 feet. The
fifth is the diamond coal, which lies about thirty yards below the
bed of the preceding, and about 4 1/2 in thickness where it occurs.
It is not found, however, in almost any of the workings of the Ed-
monstone colliery, which extend over the south-eastern part of
the parish. The sixth is the jewel coal seam, which is the deepest
that has been wrought. It is of very superior quality and lies ten
yards deeper than the last mentioned in those places where it is


