
                         ARDNAMURCHAN.                        147

accommodation, and on the 16th October, this eminently pious
and zealous man " died in great peace and joy."  " Mr Hamilton
and his father-in-law, Mr Watson, spent a gloonly winter in that
secluded and cheerless castle.  Mr Watson sunk under his suffer-
ings and died in the month of March following; but Mr Hamil-
ton was graciously preserved until, after many efforts on the part of
the General Assembly and the Scottish parliament to procure the
release of this esteemed minister, he was at length, by an exchange
of prisoners, liberated on the 2d May 1645, after an imprison-
ment of ten months."  (Orthodox Presbyterian, July 1837.)
   Castle Tirom, the castle of the Clanranald, a building 130
yards iu circumference, in shape adapted to the rock on which it
is built, is situated on an islet in Loch Moidart, named Eilien Ti-
rom or dry island, being connected with the mainland by a nar-
row neck, over0owed only at high water.  Its tall battlements or
turrets, with the surrounding scenery, give it an imposing appear-
ance.  Being never repaired since burnt by Clanranald about
17l5, it is a total ruin, only the exterior walls and a few vaulted
chambers within now remaining.  There is a tradition that the
troops of Cromwell penetrated to this remote fortalice and held it
for a time.
   At Ormsaig mor in Ardnamurchan, there are some large stones
so placed as to resemble a rude altar, round which a circle of
smaller stones may be traced.  It is called " Griadal Fhinn,"
Fingal's Griddle.  There are also in different parts a few rude
obelisks or upright stones, and stone coffins have been found con-
taining, as usual, coarse earthen urns.  At Ormsaig beg there are
the remains of a very small tower, dignified by the name of " Cas-
tial due nan Clior," the black Castle of the Minstrels.
   Of ancient places of worship there are numerous vestiges.  At
these, the inhabitants still continue to bury their dead.  At Eilien
Finnan in Lochshiel, the walls of the ancient parish church, dedi-
cated to that saint, are still standing.  It appears to have been a
small rude edifice, rudeness remarkably characterizing the tombs
of the common people around.  A very sweet-toned, angular, an-
tique hand bell remains on its stone table or altar; and until with-
in a few years since, the alleged skull of the warrior who slew
Ranald the stranger at Blarliene, by stratagem, marked by deep
dints from the sword of Ranald, to whom tradition attributes un-
mastered prowess.  At Ardnafuaran in Arasaig, the church of Kil-
maria, dedicated to the virgin Mary, also the church of a parish


