
             118                         ORKNEY.

             reformed church.  Wonders, in the way of cure of bodily disease,
             are said to have been wrought by this Saint, whose fame is now
             passed away and name almost forgotten.
                A small grebe excepted, this island belongs exclusively to one
             proprietor, who, with his family, constantly resides in it; and, for
             a length of time, was the only residing beritor in the parish, and
             Justice of the Peace.  A large proportion of this island is under
             culture, and enclosed with stone dikes.  It is deemed among the
             most fertile of the islands in Orkney, both for pasture and arable
             land.  Here clover, white and red, grows s ntaneously, and of a
             rich quality.  Here turnips are raised, of a more extraordinary size
             and weight than in warmer climes and apparently richer soils.
             The proprietor of Papa Westray has, within these eight or ten
             years, erected a garden, which promises to do very well as a kit-
             chen garden.  Though currant and gooseberry have not succeeded
             to expectation, yet apple-trees supported on the wall have been
             wonderfully productive.*
                Lakes.-In Westray there are four considerable lakes, viz. the
             Loch of Swartmill, in the Skailwick district; the Loch of Took-
             quay, in the southwest district; and the Lochs of Saintear and
             Burness,in the north part of the parish.  All these lakes are much
             about one size, measuring nearly half a mile in length to a quarter
             in breadth,-Burness excepted, which is not so large.  The water
             in the lake of Swartmill is peculiarly dark and muddy, owing to
             its lying in the centre of a large peat-moss. There are no fishes
             in this lake, except common eel.  The water in the lake of Took-
             quay is soift and clear, and answers well all the purposes of wash-
             ing and bleaching; but there are no fish in it, owing to its want
             of communication with the sea.  The water in the lakes of Sain-
             tear and Burness are also transparent, and answer equally well the
             purposes above-mentioned. Burness, the upper lake, empties

             <FOOTNOTE>It may not, perhaps be out of place here to mention, that Papa-Westray is
             notable in history for being the scene of a cruel murder. Ronald, one of the Earls
             of Orkney, who is represented as an amiable and accomplished nobleman, and much
             beloved bi his subjects, happening to come to this island direct from his palace at
             Kirkwall; attended by a small retinue, on a domestic concern, and, towards the ap-
             proach of the Christmas season, was, in the course of the night or late in the even-
             ing, while sitting by the fireside indulging himself in mirth and conversation with
             his companions, suddenly surprised by Thoasin Earl of Caithness, and his armed fol-
             lowers investing the house and setting fire to it; and though, by superior strength and
             agility. be escaped the configuration, yet his place of retreat was soon afterwards dis-
             covered by the barking of his own dog, whence be was taken,and, together with his
             compnions Inhumanly butchered.  His remains are said to have been carried over
             to Westray, and intered amidst the lamentations of the people.


