
				TAIN.					297

	in addition, for the last few years of his life, an annuity of L. 7, 10s.
	rom the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.
   	  All the families in the parish, with the exception of 3 or 4, attend
	the Established Church. There may be, besides, 2 or 3 indivi-
	duals who attend a Secession chapel in a neighbouring parish.
	  Religious and Charitable Associations.-There are no societies
	for religious purposes belonging exclusively to the parish, though it
	is a chief seat of several. The Northern Missionary Society, which
	is intended to embrace in its range the shires of Inverness, Ross, and
	Sutherland, was established in 1800, and meets annually at Tain,
	Inverness, and Dingwall. The late Rev. Dr Mackintosh of Tain,
	who was, until his death in 1831, its valued secretary, and the late
	Rev. Alexander Fraser of Kirkhill, were the originators of the in-
	stitution. The annual subscription of 10s. 6d. is the condition of
	membership. The yearly contributions from the Tain district ave-
	rage from L. 70 to L. 80; of which sum, probably more than L. 30
	are from the parish itself. The Easter Ross Ladies' Missionary
	and Bible Society, established in 1818, meets annually at Tain;
	its collections average near L. 30; half the sum may be consider-
	led as the contribution of this parish. The ladies usually devote
	about L. 6 of it to local objects, such as the education of the chil-
	dren of the poor. There is also a Society for the Relief of the
	Destitute Sick, established about seven years ago; of which the
	annual subscriptions amount to about L. 12. In addition to all
	the above, and exclusive of the poor funds to be afterwards men-
	tioned, the church collections for religious and charitable objects,
	may average L. 50.
	  Education.-The parish is supplied with the means of educa-
	tion, to almost as great an extent as could be desired. Besides the
	parochial school, there is an academy, established in 1813, erect-
	ed and liberally endowed by subscription; two female day and
	boarding schools, one supported by the burgh funds, and the other
	private; two private English schools; a private class for young
	children of both sexes; and a Gaelic Society school; in all eight,
	and all, except the last, situated in the town. The number taught
	to read under five years of age are, 49 males, 40 females; the number
	from five to fifteen, 253 males, 144 females; the number taught to
	write, 148 males, 76 females. The instruction given in the parochial
	school consists chiefly of English reading, writing, and arithmetic;
	and there are in general several Latin and Greek scholars. The
	schoolmaster's salary is L. 44, 10s., with school-fees as follows:
	viz. for teaching English, 2s. per quarter; with the addition of
           ROSS AND CROMARTY.                          U


