
                              KELSO                              307

traction of a garden to the  east of the town,--one of the latest
in this district of those Dutch distorions nature which have
disappeared before modern improvement.  The platanus died,
in common with most of its kind in this country, in the unusual-
ly hard winter of 1814.  The garden, of which its "huge hill of
leaves" was the chief ornament, is a garden still; but its straight
walks, yew-hedges, parterres and labyrinth, survive only in the page
of the "Great Magician."
  Zoology.--There is little in the zoology of the parish to distin-
guish it from the surrounding district.  The Tweed, as is well
known, abounds with red fish, which are believed to afford no
ground for questioning the general opinion, that almost every river
has its distinct variety of the trout or salmon tribe.  A small pond,
or rather tarn, at the western extremity of the park of Floors, con
tains carp and tench, while the park itself is not without its comple-
ment of fallow-deer.--Among birds, the swan deserves to be noticed,
from the added charm which its presence gives to many of the fine
scenes on the Tweed.  There are, at present, six white swans upon
the river at Kelso, each of them fully realizing, in its smooth and
graceful motion on the clear blue stream, the poet's description,

               "The swan on still St Mary's lake,
               Floats double, swan and shadow." *

These creatures are so tame that they readily approach the
water's edge to take crumbs of bread from passengers; and from
the pleasure they afford, they are as much prized and guard-
ed by all classes and ages among the inhabitants, as though,
like the Queen's swans on the Thames, they had the special
protection of the corporation.  They associate in pairs; and,
what is remarkable, each pair appears to have a specific section of
the river allotted to it, which it guards with the utmost jealousy
against the intrusion of the others.  In the case of one of the pairs,
this prescriptive domain extends over a space of considerably more
than a mile.  The interesting spectacle has been repeatedly wit-
nessed of the old swans carrying the young ones on their wings
across the rapid parts of the river, while they left them to stem
the smooth water by their own efforts.

                     II.-- ClVlL HISTORY.
  The history of Kelso, so far as it can be detached from the
general history of the Border, may be conveniently divided into the
history of the parish and the history of the town.

<FOOTNOTE>Wordsworth.


