
     of St Andrew's.

great plenty of flat fish, such as slounders, soles, skate, hali- 
but, turbot.  Near the rocky shore.  many small cod, both 
red and grey; in deeper water, ling and larger cod.  All 
these kinds of fish are sold by tale or by hand.  Some of 
the larger ling, cod, and halibut by weight, from 2 d. to 3 d. 
the pound.  Since the departure of the haddocks, the fish-
ermen have become poor, and either unable or unwilling 
to prosecute their trade to any extent; and what adds to 
their poverty, incapacity, and languor is, that, on ma- 
ny occasions, an unexpected blast of north-east wind, 
which raises tremenduous waves in this bay, has torn in 
pieces all their lines*. 

<FOOTNOTE>

*The most memorable of this kind in our days happened on 4th 
Nov. 1765.  The morning was quiet; all the boats went to sea, and dropt 
their lines.  While lying on their oars, about 7 o'clock it began to scott 
in the N. E.; the fishermen saw reason to apprehend a storm, and imme-
diately began to gather up their dibing tackle; but before they could ac-
complish this, the gale had increased so as to raise immense culed and 
broken waves.  Each boat made for the nearest beach or cove between 
rocks.  Two of them, very near each other, had got so close to the East 
Sands, that the people on the beach had began to wade into the water in 
order to assist their friends; when the one boat, raised on the top of a 
prodigious wave, was driven right over head of the other.  The upper- 
most boat was instantly either buried in the sand, or carried back by the 
reflux, so that no part of it, or of its crew, was ever again seen.  The 
undermost boat was drawn ashore by the women, all the people alive. 
The writer of this has seen and felt the wound made on the head of a boy 
in the stern of the undermost boat by the keel of the uppermost.  On this 
occasion, of 5 boats, 3 were totally lost, and the other two much dama- 
ged, and most of the tackle lost.  Twelve men were lost, of whom one 
was unmarried, the other eleven left widows and 28 children.  Many of 
the men who escaped with life were severely bruised.  A subscription was 
immediately set on foot among individuals and societies in St Andrew's,
which, with donations from other burghs, and from noblemen and gen- 
tlemen in different parts of the country, produced L. 317: 7: 9 3/4 Sterling.
This money the subscribers committed to trustees, who, after giving an 
immediate supply to the distressed families, settled a half yearly pension on 


