
                        COLDSTREAM.                            211

raised in the parish, as nearly as can he ascertained, on an average
of the seven years preceding Martinmas 1833, was L. 28,182 a-year.

		    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.-There is a weekly corn-market in Coldstream; and
likewise a monthly market for the sale of sheep and cattle, which
is well attended, and where a great deal of first rate stock is an-
nually exposed for sale. The only village in the parish is the New-
town of Lennel, so called in opposition to the original village of
Lennel where the church formerly stood.
  Means of Communication.-The mail-curricle to London and
Edinburgh passes through the town every day; besides which,
there is a daily post to all the towns in the neighbouring counties.
There are twenty-two miles of parish roads, and eight miles of turn-
pike roads, which are travelled by three coaches from Edinburgh
to Newcastle, and two between Kelso and Berwick. There is a
very handsome bridge of five arches across the Tweed, and one of
one arch across the Leet, at the south and west entrances to the
town.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church is conveniently situate for
the greater part of the parish, although it is nearly 5 miles from
the eastern, 3 1/2 miles from the northern, and 1 1/2-miles from the
western extremity of the parish. It was built in 1795, is in good
repair, and was intended to accommodate upwards of 1100 sitters.
Being built by the heritors alone, it is their property, and conse-
quently no rent is paid by any of the people.
  Upon the death of the late incumbent in 1830, the heritors re-
solved to build a new manse, according to a plan furnished by Mr
Hamilton of Edinburgh; it was completed in 1832, and is acknow-
ledged to be the neatest and most commodious manse in Berwick-
shire. Nothing, indeed, could exceed the kindness of the heritors,
or their anxiety to secure the comfort of the clergyman. Includ-
ing the site of the manse and garden, the extent of the glebe is
about 11 1/2 acres, and its annual value may be stated at L. 50. The
stipend is 16 clialders, in equal proportions of meal and barley,
with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   There are two meeting houses, in the town, one belonging to the
United Associate Synod of the Secession church, the other to the
Relief synod. The stipend given to the clergyman of the former
denomination is L. 150, with a house and garden; to the other,
L. 115.
  There are 242 families in the parish that attend the Established
church, besides a few from England; 155 families attend the Se-



