
                             BOTHWELL.                         783

the minister and congregation, where they regularly assembled with
the returning Sabbath to adore and serve that God who maketh
the wrath of man to praise him, and whose goodness they desire
gratefully to record in providing for them a sanctuary in their time of
need, where they could meet together in comfort, to confess their
faith in Christ, to learn his will, and to celebrate the ordinances
of his appointment.
   The name given to the establishment by the founders was New
Orbiston.  lt was universally known throughout the country by
the more appropriate appellation of Babylon. *
   Buildings.-Bothwell Castle, one of the residences of the Right
Honourable Lord Dougls, is of plain simple architecture, but a
large commodious mansion, consisting of a centre and two wings,
built of the same red stone as the old Castle.  The public apartments
are very spacious.  In several of the rooms there are many
excellent portraits, not a few of them by Vandyke.  There are also
one or two relics not unworthy the attention of the antiquary.
The old Castle of Bothwell and surrounding grounds have long
been celebrated, certainly not without reason, for more beautiful
or striking scenery could scarcely be conceived: -the waters of the
" flowing Clyde," -its bold and richly wooded banks,-the stately
ruins of the old Castle, and a hundred other beauties-all contribute
to ornament these truly classic grounds.
   The walks along the banks of the Clyde and the pleasure-grounds
are laid out with exquisite teste, and are kept in the highest order.
   Woodhall, situated on the banks of the North Calder, near the
village of Holytown, is also a spacious mansion.  The property
was long in the possession of a family of the name of Hamilton,
who were barons of the barony of Thankerton, anciently part of
the Lordship of Torphichen. It now belongs to W. F. Campbell,
Esq. of Islay, and is well known for its extensive gardens, vineries,
and green-houses.  The celebrated W. Aiton, Esq. of Kew Garden,
was gardener at Woodhall before he went to London.  The
house is of the style of architecture of the age of Louis XIV.;
the apartments contain a numberr of good pictures, and a variety
of excellent busts; the Iibrary is ancient and curious ; in the entrance
hall there are several French cuirasses and helmets of brass,

<FOOTNOTE>Another Babylon, upon similar principles, was lately reared by a lady of fortune
in Germany, and has already, like the above, come to a disgraceful termination.


