
     Statistical Account

contrary, the mould is commonly good dry earth, on a deep
clayey bottom, the country level, and the harvest as early as in
most parts of the country.  The principal crops of grain, are
barley, oats, and pease; of which the two last species are sown
in March, and reaped in September; and the first, sown about
the beginning of May, is commonly reaped towards the end
of August.  But these circumstances are rendered precarious,
by the nature of the soil, as well as by the uncertainty of the
seasons.  In general, the harvest is concluded, about a month
sooner in the north than in the south-west part of the parish.
Potatoes may be considered as a part of the principal annual
produce of the land.  Turnip sowing begins to be practised
by the farmers.  Some rich hay crops are raised, near the re-
sidence of the heritors of Mid Marr and Shiels, as well as on
some of the principal farms.  Flax is raised only for private
use.  In general, it may be observed, that the produce of the
parish considerably exceeds the consumption, so as to admit
of an annual report.
   The causes, that concur chiefly in obstructing improvement
in agriculture, in this part of the kingdom, are, the prejudi-
ces of the farmers in behalf of old established practices; the
short leases granted by heritors; and certain services, which
tenants are bound, in many instances, to perform, under the
penalty of forfeiting their possessions.  These causes strengthen
each other, by mutual co-operation.  The prejudice of a far-
mer, in behalf of ancient practice, (always powerful in an un-
enlightened mind,) may be counteracted, during the course of
a long lease, when he has leisure to look about him, and to
make trial of experiments, of which he has estimated the pro-
fit, as well as remarked the effect.  On the contrary, he,
whose lease must expire within a few years, will be attached,
perhaps insensibly, to the practice and modes of his predeces-
sors, from the impossibility of imitating a method, of which


