
                            LINLITHGOW.                      179

at the fiar prices of the county. The average rent of the parish
may be somewhere about L. 2 or L. 2, 2s. per Scots acre.
   Farm-buildings are commodious, and suited to either rearing or
feeding. Dwelling-houses are comfortable, and in general large
enough to accommodate a large family. Several steadings are ex-
cellent, and one is now in the course of erection Champ-
fleurie estate, which will be very superior.
   Leases-Leases are, in general, granted for nineteen years, and
the conditions are of the usual style, viz. restrictive during the last
four years of the endurance. One farm in the highest part of the
parish let last year is under extreme restrictive conditions, by
which the tenant is bound to improve. Time will show the result;
but never yet was an improvement in agriculture discovered or ef-
fected by the specialties of an agreement.
   Plantations.-The parish is well-wooded. Near the residence
of the proprietors of the soil, some fine trees are to be seen, but
large plantations have been lately made, which are now orna-
mental, and ultimately will be beneficial. The management of
plantation is now much better understood than formerly, as to
thinning, training, and drainage of the ground, as also the descrip-
tion of plants suited to the various soils.
   Cattle.-There is no distinct breed of cattle peculiar to the dis-
trict; the mongrel race of non description are all but extinct, and in
lieu of these, some fine beasts are now reared. In consequence of
many large dairies being in the vicinity, the Ayrshire cow is the
prevailing sort. There are also a good many short-horns. The cross
between these may be said to constitute the breed reared in the
parish; but the numbers reared form but a small proportion of the
stock kept. From the nearness to the great markets held at Fal-
kirk, the greater portion of animals fattened are bought at these
trysts. Of sheep there are but few raised; but a great many more
are fed than used to be, a few years since. There are a few flocks of
Leicesters, but these are exceptions. Draught horses are almost
entirely of the Clydesdale breed; and there are few counties in
Scotland better horsed than Linlithgowshire.
   Quarries and Mines.-Lime abounds in the parish. Silver-
mine, Hillhouse, and Carrubber works are now in full operation.
Coal is also found in thin searns in the southern part of the parish,
but none wrought just now. A vein of silver is understood to lie
in the southern district of the parish, upon Lord Hopetaun's lands.


