
10                             ROXBURGHSHIRE.

early as the year 1000, that it was an abbey prior to the time of
David L., and, instead of being founded, that it was rebuilt and en-
larged by that munificent monarch. It frequently sufffered during
the English wars, particularly by the invasions of Edward I.  It
was burned and pillaged by the Earl of surrey at the storming of
Jedburgh in the year 1523, and it was subsequently reduced to a
state of dilapidation by the Earl of Hertford in 1545. Its walls
still exhibit tyhe traces of the flames, as they had burst through its
arches.  Considerable portions of it, including two beautiful doors
and several aisles, were demolished in more recent times by the direc-
tion of persons of whom the reverse might have been expected; but a
better taste now prevails, and it lately underwent some practical
repairs.  The substructions of its buildings have been occasional-
ly found at a great distance from the remaining fabric.  The burial-
ground attached to it was very extensive.  In constructing the
present road, which passes through its ancient limits, two tiers of
coffins were removed, formed of stone slabs.
     Of the Convent of Carmelites, and of the Maison Disu, no
traces remain, but the names of various places in the town still in-
dicate the prevalence of ecclesiastical institutions.  The chapel of
Scarsburgh and the church of Upper Crailing (an ancient parish
now attached to this) have likewise disappeared.
     This parish possessed tow castles, Jedburgh and Fenihirst.
The name name of Jedburgh Castle appears in the earliest Scottish re-
cords, but it does not appear by whom it was founded.  It was a
royal residence, and for ages continued a place of great strength,
the object of eager dispute to the contending kingdoms. It was
the favourite abode of the amiable Malcolm IV., who died there
A. D. 1165.  It was frequently hnoured with the presence of
William the Lion, and of Alexander II. To Alexander III. was
born in Jedburgh Castle a son A. D. 1263, who was named Alex-
ander; and this, the same sovereign, after he had lost all his child-
ren, thought a fitting scene for uthe unusual pomp wihhch attended
his marriage with Joalnde, daughter of the Count de Dreux.  It
was in the possession of the English from the battle of Durham
till the year 1409, when it was taken by the Scots and demolish-
ed with great labour and at great expense, as is ecvident from the
proposal which was made to defray it by a tax of two pennies up-
on every hearth in Scothland.  A small portion of its remaining
walls was removed a few years ago, and on levelling its sitr for the
erection of the present structure, charred beams of oak were found
mixed with rubbish of stone amd lime.  A few coins were also



