
108                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

strata; but these have not been at any time very particularly exa-
mined.
  For the mineralogy of this parish, reference may be made to
the survey of this county by Professor Jameson, and to the prac-
tical survey of the Bushbys coal-viewers, also to the sketch on the
county map, inserted by the late General Dirom; but this field
seems to have been little explored, and probably may yet be found
rich in future discoveries.
  Sandstone exists, but is not worked; and the same remark ap-
plies to roofing-slate.  Coal has not been found, nor lime, but
neither of them has been duly sought for.  A drift was put into
Hartfell, in search of copper ore, but without success.  Gypsum
occurs in thin veins, and also calcareous spar.  The fine blue
Moffat whinstone is one of the best for building, being rich in dif-
fused quartz.  No mine has been worked in this parish, and no
adequate pains taken for the discovery of minerals,--the only trial
for coal not having been well supported, nor made with judgment
and perseverance.
  Zoology.--In former times, the hart and kind were found in
this parish; the last hart was killed in 1754, having been long
single.  The roebuch and doe were also natives, but have long
since disappeared.  The eagle has become a rare bird, though
still it may be seen occasionally floating over the summits of the
high mountains.  The blue hawk bred lately in the Bell Craig
Linn. The fox continues to haunt in the hills and mountains, and
to be destructive to lambs and poultry.  It would be a wise mea-
sure to employ all the strength of the community here, as for-
merly in Dryfe, for destroying in season all sorts of birds and beasts
of prey, and their broods, early in May, that being the proper time.
Game appears liable to fluctuations, ddpending partly on the sea-
sons, and partly, as is supposed, on the burning of the heath, and
the care taken to destroy such creatures as are hurtful to the game;
a task not easily performed, unless the shepherds take a part in it.
Black and red qame, with partridges, are found as usual in the pro-
per situations.  Ptarmiqan are very rarely seen.  The heron is
often seen among the waters; and wild ducks occasionally visit
them.  Wood pigeons are numerous; and there are common pigeons
which have bred in remote parts or old towers, and have become
  The domestic cattle are mostly of the Galloway breed, as reared
for sale; and of the Ayrshire kind, as kept for milk cows.  A cow



