
     of Cambuslang.

less, but is one foot in 4 or 5, at a distance from it*.  One
of the most important points to be attended to, in working
coal, is to do it in such a manner as to keep clear of water,
and this till lately was done by a level, which conducted the
water from the different coal pits to Clyde.  But the coal
could not be wrought dry in this way, whenever it was
lower than the bed of the river.  This disadvantage in-
duced the present possessor to erect a steam engine in 1787
by means of which, the coal can be wrought dry at a much
greater depth than formerly.  The colliery gives employ-
ment to 62 men, young and old.  Of these 42 are employed
below ground, and 20 above.  As the work of the former
is laborious, hazardous and disagreeable, so their profit is
great in proportion to that of other workmen.  They are
furnished with a house and coal for fuel, and have 6 d. for
every cart.  An ordinary collier can easily dig 4 carts, for
which he receives 2 s. 2 d. a-day; and, if he works every
day, 13 s. a-week.  Those who work above ground, are al-
so furnished with houses and coal for fuel, and have from
10 d. to 1 s. 2 d. a-day.  The wages of colliers and other
incidental expences may amount to L. 2000 per annum.
About 600 carts of coals are put out weekly; and conse-
quently above 30,000 yearly.  The ancient and present
price of coals cannot be compared with accuracy, on ac-
count of the difference in weight and measure.  About

     VOL. V. Kk

<FOOTNOTE>

*The colliers call the declination of a seam downwards the dip of the
coal, and its inclination upwards, the crop of the coal.  It is a curious fact
and well-worthy of notice, that not only all the strata of coal, but also all
the strata of freestone, have their dip towards Clyde, on both sides of it,
that is, the coal and stone on the south side of the river, have their declina-
tion to the north; and, on the contrary, the coal and stone on the north
side of the river, have their declination to the south.  How this fact is to be
accounted for, it is not easy to say,


