
     Statistical Account

the year 1671, the old jurisdiction is explained and con-
firmed; and, according to the tradition of the country,
it was acknowledged by all vessels passing in the Tay, by
a salute, or lowering of their colours to the castle.  This
power extends from Drumlie Sands below Dundee to
the heart of the river, and entitles the family of Kin-
fauns to a salmon, annually, out of every fishing boat on
the Tay*.

   Prices and Wages.-The price of provisions has risen
greatly of late years, and is here regulated by the Perth
market+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The charter, after confirming the lands and barony of Kinfauns,
adds, "and also the heritable office of keeping the laid water of Tay, up-
on both sides of the famine, within the hail bounds thereof, beginning at
that part of the famine called Drumlie Sands, until the head of the famine
water, and all other waters, floods, and burns running into the said wa-
ter, within the hail bounds thereof; and with power to seek and search
all fishers, and other persons what so ever, who can be found and appre-
hended, taking smolts, kipper, or salmon, with cruives, or any other man-
ner of way, within said bounds or parts thereof, within forbidden time."
It also grants power to hold courts, atherciate and punish for all such
offences.  And further, "All other privileges, liberties, immunities fees,
and duties belonging to Card heritable office; and specially with the fie of
and salmon yearly, to be uplifted and taken in all time coming, furth of
ilk an boat, wherewith salmon shall happen to be taken in the laid river of
Tay, upon both sides thereof within the bounds aforesaid"
Chickens, which 25 or 30 years ago fold at 2 d., are now 4 d. and 6 d.
a piece; grown poultry from 1 s. to 1 s. 3 d. each; eggs are 6 d. the dozen;
beef in autumn 3 3/4 d., or 4 d., in spring 5 d., Sometimes 6 d. the pound; mut-
ton from 3 d. to 4 d. in autumn, and 5 d. in the sping; veal and lamb are
commonly 6 d., all Amsterdam weight; geese fell at 2 s. 6 d. and 35.;
turkeys at 4 s. 6 d. and 5 s.; pigs at 5 s., and all other provisions in the same
proportion.  Though this is a rich country, yet vivres are, in general,
high; and even some articles, such as eggs and poultry, are affected by the
Edinburgh market.

     7


