
             466                           PERTHSHIRE.

             an elliptical form, and may present a surface of nearly 1 1/4 acre.
             The ruins consist of two long side walls, extending to about 140
             feet, while the two end or gable walls are about 24 feet. There
             are three transverse walls parallel to these, thus dividing the edi-
             fice into four compartments, of which the two extreme ones ap-
             pear to have been the smallest. They are surrounded and almost
             hid by a thick belt of fine old sycamores and ashes; to which, on
             the opposite shore, are corresponding trees of similar antiquity, to-
             gether with a few superannuated fruit trees, remnants, in all pro-
             bability, of the Priory garden. The notices regarding this build-
             ing are rather scanty. " The ruins upon the Isle," observes Sir
             Walter Scott,* " now almost shapeless, being overgrown with wood,
             rose at one time into the towers and pinnacles of a priory, where
             slumbered the remains of Sibilla, daughter of Henry L of Eng-
             land, and consort of Alexander I. of Scotland. It was founded
             by Alexander, and the care of it committed to a small body of
             monks." It was a cell from the monastery of Scone. This
             appears by a charter of the same Alexander, in the chartu-
             lary of Scone, directed " Episcopis," &c.; and grants the Isle
             of Lochtay " ut ecclesia Dei ibi pro me, et pro anima reginae Sy-
             billae ibi defunctae fabricetur; et hoc do iis interim quo usque de-
             dero iis aliud augmentum unde locus ille in Dei obseqiuum exalte-
             tur. Teste Herberto apud Strivelyne." I have extracted this
             quotation from a manuscript at Taymouth, in which it is stated that
             Fordon, in Book 6th, cnnfirms this information. " The last re-
             sidents in the Isle," according to the novelist,+ were three nuns,
             who, when they " did emerge into society, seemed determined to
             enjoy it in its most complicated and noisy state; for they came
             out only onto a year, and that to a market at Kenmore. Hence
             that fair is still called " Feill nam ban naomba," the market
             of the Holy Women. There are no precise data by which
             to determine the time of the existence of these nuns. It must
             have been subsequent to the year 1565, for that was the year
             when a market was for the first time held at Kenmore. This
             is proved by the manuscript of the Vicar of Inchadyn, al-
             ready referred to. At page 44, there is this statement, " ye yer
             of God MVLXV (1565,) ye margat was halden and begun at the
             Kenmor at the end of Lochthay, and ther was na margat nor feyr
             haldyn at Inchadan quhar it was wynt till be haldin, al this don be

<FOOTNOTE>Fair Maid of Perth.      Ibid.
                                

