
		          KINNETTLES.                        217

it is still to be seen. The glebe, which belonged to the priest,
and which consisted of four Scotch acres, lay at no great distance
from the chapel. It remained for many years unclaimed by any
person, after the chapel had been burnt and deserted. Even after
the Earl of Strathmore had purchased the lands of Foffarty, he
did not venture, for a considerable time, to break ground upon it,
although it lay a kind of waste in the midst of his ctltivated fields.
At last, however, he did take possession of it, and bring it into cul-
tivation. But as it was locally situated, with the other lands of
Foffarty, in the parish of Caputh, the present minister of that pa-
rish advanced his claim to it, once and again, between twenty and
thirty years ago; but lost it in the Court from the want of a charter,
and from the want of occupancy. The whole lands of Foffarty
being church lands, pay no minister's stipend, but hold cum deci-
mis inclusis. But although the chapel above described had been
long burnt and deserted, the late Mr Bower of Kincaldrum did
not renounce, but stedfastly adhered to, the Roman Catholic reli-
gion: and be converted one of the rooms in the old mansion-
house of Kinnettles (of which he was then proprietor) into a cha-
pel,--erecting an alt`r in it, and employing the Catholic priest of
Dundee to officiate at stated times, when he himself, his family,
and a few scattered Papists in the neighbourhood, attended wor-
ship, and celebrated mass. *--In 1833, one of the ploughs in a grass-
field, dug up in a pretty entire state of preservation, what an anti-
quarian would be disposed to consider a great curiosity in this part
of the kingdom, an "'upper millstone of a hand-mill." It is 25 1/4
inches in diameter, 1 1/2 inch thick, nearly quite circular, neatly
hewn with the chisel, and displays the nicest workmanship around
the small circular opening in the centre. The stone of which it
is composed is mica-schist, has a leaden colour, contains a mixture
of silicious spar, and is thickly studded with small garnets. It is
probably of great antiquity. The mortar appears to have been
the earliest instrument that was used in combination with the pes-
tle, for grinding corn. But as this proces was very laborious, at-
tended with little execution, and productive of the coarsest manu-
facture, it was probably soon superseded by the invention of the
mola manuaria, or hand-mill, which was for ages worked by bond-
men and bondwomen. As this mill was more effective, and fur-
nished meal of better quality than that produced by the mortar

<FOOTNOTE>The M.S. contains a description of several coins of James I., George I., &c.
found in the parish.


