
                  PARISH OF CRAIGNISH.

              PRESBYTERY OF INVERARY, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

       THE REV.  ARCHIBALD FRANCIS STEWART, MINISI'ER.


               1.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HiSTORY.
        Name, Boundaries, -THIS parish had, in ancient times, the
       two names of Kilmborie and Craignish, which were indiscrimi-
       nately applied.  The principal burial ground, in the centre of
       which stand the ruins of a Popish chapel, is still called Kilmhorie.
       Kilmborie signifies a chapel dedicated to the-Virgin Mary. The
       other, which, in modern times, has become its sole name, is pro-
       nounced by Pinkerton to be Danish.  In this, however, he is mis-
       taken, for Craignish is plainly a compound Gaelic word, and, like
       most Celtic names of places, it is descriptive.  It denotes a rocky
       peninsula ; and, when one views the appearance of the parish fronA
       the west, the appropriateness 6 f the appellation will be at once
       admitted.

        The parish lies on the western shore of Argyleshire.  It is
       about 126 miles south-west of Inverary, 24 sotith of the village of
       Oban, and. 15 north-north-west of Lochgilphead.  Its length is 1 1
       miles and half a furlong, and its average breadth about 2 miles.
       On the north, it is bounded by the parish of Melfort; on the east,
       by the parishes of Dalavich and Kilmartin, and by Loch Craig-
       nish. On the south and west, it is washed by the Atlantic.        -
         Its figure approaches that of a scalene triangle,-the base ex-
       tending nearly due east and west, and the vertex being south west.
       The southern halr of the parish is peninsular.

         Topographical Appearonces.-Its surface is much diversified.
       That part which lies farthest north rises to the elevation of about
       700 feet above the level of the sea.     It is rugged, and, for the
       most part covered with heath.  Along the base of this range of
       bills, a flat tract, of somewhat less than.a quarter of a mile broad,
       stretches from the shore, on - the west, to a river which flows on
       the cast, between Craignish and the parish of Kilmartin.  Turn-
       ing towards the southwest, on reaching a chain of bills on the left


