
                       FORTINGAL.                         557

der privations; and excepting in cases of real want, and when
compelled by the strongest necessity, it may be said that the dis-
position to refrain from seeking parochial aid is general.
   Fairs.-There are 7 fairs held in the parish,-nne at Kirk-
ton of Fortingal in the beginning of December, lasting two or
three days; at which sheep, goats, and cattle are exposed and
bought for being slaughtered for winter store. Some of the in-
habitants buy a clad score or two. At this market, a great
deal of other business is transacted, accounts paid, servants en-
gaged, &c. There is another fair held at Kirkton, about the
end of April, called the " Seed Fair," because the tenants and
others resort to it for their lintseed, clover-seed &c. Another is
held in August, being the greatest market for lambs in these
bounds. At Kinloch-Rannoch, there are also three fairs,-one in
August for lambs, &c., one in the end of October, and another in
April for cattle, &c.; and one at Inverwick, Glenlyon, first Thurs-
day, O. S. for sheep, &c.
   Inns.-There are 4 inns in the parish, affording such accommo-
dations as can be expected in a district like this. There are, be-
sides, 6 other houses in retired or remote districts, where whisky,
porter, &c. are sold to refresh the traveller, and to which the
tenants in the neighbourbood retire on rent days, weddings, &c.
  Fuel.-The principal fuel of the parish is peats. In many
places, these are scarce, and procured, sometimes, from an eleva-
tion of little less than 3000 feet. Wood and turf are partially used
also. Coals are brought to thd district, by such as can afford it,
from Crieff or Perth.

	            MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The changes which have taken place since the former Account
was drawn up, are quite striking. Then, most of the tenantry in
the parish removed, for the benefit of grazing, with their cattle
to their shealings, sometimes to the distance of twenty miles.
There they remained several months during the summer season,
the men employing themselves chiefly in fishing and hunting, the
women in spinning and attending to the dairy. And among the
middle class of tenants, instances were not uncommon of families
paying the rent in this way, by manufacturing lint of their own
growth. But now, nothing more is done than what is barely re-
quired for family use; because there is no demand. The milk
cows are now generally housed every night, summer and winter,
and the dairy-maid's musical voice is no longer heard in the fold.


