
80                  CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

and the utter impossibility of any one man, being able, however
gifted with abilities and zeal, to discharge aright duties requiring
Continual devotedness and unwearied labours to perform them
either with success or,efficiency. Is it to be supposed that a mi-
ni.ster can administer religious instruction to a population of at
least 2500, scattered over the remote parts of three parishes,. and
4be greater number of the distant glens and valleys in the high
and mountainous districts of the county of Caithness? Here is
Committed to the pastoral superintendence of a missionary a boun-
dary, the extremes of which, by a practicable road, are from forty
to fifty miles distant from one another. The distance, however, is
the least of the obstructions in the missionary's way, and of the
difficulties he has to encounter in the discharge of his highly ini-
portant duties;. there are moors, mosses, and quaking fens which
disjoin one valley from another, and which make it impossible, ex-
r,ept by circuitous routes, to pass fr9m glen to glen during the win-
ter and spring months. The number of sittings in the mission
house is 403, of which 351 were let when a survey was made dur-
ing the spring of last year; the highest rent charged is Is. and the
lowest 6d. per sitting. The whole church accommodation then
ip theparish is 1159 sittings, which is by far too few were the
peoplewithin a distance that could enable them to attend regu,
larly.It is questionable, however, how far the mission-house,
from the circumstances mentioned with preachin once in the
three weeks ought to be reckoned church accommodation. There
are two catechists employed by the minister and session, but they
are prine. all paid by the parishioners. The parish church and
the mission chapel are the only places of worship in the parish.
The total of all denominations who do not attend public worship
in the Established Church is about 33 individuals' some of these
are Seceders, others, Independents and a few Baptist and Epis-
copalians.
   The number of communicants in the parish is 110. These bear
small proportion to the population; but it is better to have a few
whose walk and conversation are inconformity with, the faith and
the doctrines Christianity, than to admit a promiscuous multi-
tude, whose only motive might be the enjoyment of the outward
priveledges conferred on than partakers of this sacrament.
   Education.-The number of schools taught in the parish during
the last two or three years is 13.  One of these is the parochial
school; another is supported by the Society in Scotland fer Pro-


