
86      			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

dressing with lime is found to nearly double the value of land in
pasture, both in quanlity and quantity, and is much practised in this
parish by Mr Menteath.
    The duration of leases is for 13, 15 or 19 years, according to
the condition of the farm. Half a century ago the farm-houses of
this parish were cottages built of rough stone and clay mortar, and
containing generally two, sometimes three apartments, one of which
was the kitchen. The floors were paved with mud, and the roofs
destitute of ceiling. Such miserable buildings have been succeed-
ed by comfortable and commodious dwelling-houses, generally of
two stories, and in every way fitted for the convinience and accom-
modation of the respectable tenantry that inhabit them. The cot-
tages of the peasantry are, with scarcely an exception, superior to
the dwelling-houses fifty years ago, on farms now let at L.500 a-
year. The chief land-owner, by draining, liming, and enclosing,
with stone walls, the whole arable part of his estate, amounting to
6550 acres, has expended more than double the sum for which the
estate was purchased in 1783. In the very centre of the richest
portions of it, a number of small peat mosses were deposited in ba-
sins of 150 acres in extent. It was a very expensive operation to
fill up the numerous holes made by the parishioners, who had been
for a long course of time in the habit digging their supply of
fuel a long them. The liming, draining, and the levelling, sometimes
cost L.40 an acre. They are now rich irrigated meadows, and
yield an ample return for the outlay. The average quantity of
hay is from 300 to 400 stones on each Scotch acre. On these
meadows hay harvest commences about the beginning of July.
What is cut down in one day, if the weather continue favourable,
is housed on the evening of the next. This method preserves the
saccharine juices which, by exposure to the weather, are evaporated,
and the quality of the day thereby deteriorated.
   The moss meadows being very unproductive in dry seasons,
the proprietor has availed himself of the command of water, which
the more elevated parts of his property afforded. Several streams,
many miles distant, have been diverted from their channels, and
are employed most advantageously in irrigating these meadows in
the months of April, May, and June.
   Quarries.--There are several quarries of freestone, chiefly of old
red sandstone, and one of limestone. The former are worked by
removing the cover, and afford an excellent material for building
and flooring. The lamina or plates are capable of being separated

                                 3


