
338                                 FIFESHIRE.

of Sir James Sandilands, in the immediately adjoining parish of
Kilconquhar.
For some time after the annexation, the parish was designed in
the Presbytery records, "Abercrombie with St Monance." In the
course of years, Abercrombie was gradually dropped, and St Mo-
nan's came to be the' sole designation.
Soon after the induction of the present incumbent, May 1804,
Abercrombie, agreeably to the wish of the principal heritor, was
revived as the proper name of the parish, and applied to it in all
public documents.
The village of St Monan's takes its name from a hermit
or religious recluse, belonging to a neighbouring monastery (Pitten-
weem,) who, in the sixth century, when eremite devotion was
more prevalent than now, is said to have had his abode here. The
precise spot pointed out as his habitation, is now sheltered by the
tiles and gray eaves of a byre, situated in a snug recess amongst the
banks, walls, and ruinous tenements at the west end of the village,
with a dusky-coloured mass of rock (hard whinstone) overhanging
it behind, and a stair or gulley winding past it in front. This
parish is situated upon the northern shore of the Frith of Forth,
nearly opposite to North Berwick Law, and about midway be-
twixt Fifeness and Leven-water, from,each of which it is about ten
miles distant.
 Boundaries and Figure.-It is bounded by the parishes of Elie
and Kilconquhar on the west, that of Carnbee on the north, and
north east, of Pittenweem on the east, and by the Forth on
the south. The parish forms nearly a parallelogram; its breadth
from east to west an English mile, its length from south to north
a mile and a-half.
 Topographical Appearances- There is a very abrupt as cent from
the low and rocky beach, consisting of sandstone and limestone to
the arable part of the parish. This arable land, in about aquarter of
a mile, declines to the north; it afterwards reascends gently, till -it
reaches its highest elevation at the farmhouse and steading of
Abercrombie.
From this point the ground falls in all directions, stretching

<FOOTNOTE>nance in a parish, and Sir James Sandilands desired to secure what he conditions
to that purpose." After various other steps ofprocedure, the business was closed, 21st
of October 1646, and accordingly, 20th December that year, it was duly intimated,
tbat the next day, and in all time coming, the place of meeting for service shall be at
the kirk of St Monan's, because, &c. &c.


