
566                      ARGYLESHIRE.

Malcolm of Poltalloch, within a mile of Kilmartin, for the benefit
of the children of the tenants and people on his estate.  The chil-
dren of some of the people from the neighbouring properties are
also allowed the benefit of attending. In addition to the ordinary
elementary branches of education, the children are instructed in
All the useful varieties of needle-work; knitting, laundry work, &c.
This school, though only in operation for a few years, has already
proved a great boon and blessing to the children of the district;
and promises, from the judicious manner in which it is conducted,
to afford lasting benefits to the rising generation. The rchool-
house has been erected at an expense of from L.800 to L.1000
Sterling; besides which, Mr Malcolm gives from L.70 to L.80
a-year for education in the parish, in addition to his legal obli-
gations.
     There is a library about to be formed for the use of the people
on the Pottalloch estate, in this and the neigbbouring parishes.
     A savings bank has been established in the parish in connec-
tion with the National Security Savings Branch Bank at Loch-
gilphead.
     Poor.--The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
is about 26; and the average sum allotted to each per year, about
L.1, 10s.  All the poor on the Poltalloch estate are allowed a
monthly supply of meal according to their circumstances; and all
who apply for work, such as knitting, spinning, &c. are paid therefor.
    There is one inn and two change-houses in the parish, viz. the
Inn of Kilmartin, which is well kept, and two public houses at the
Ford, which are more orderly and better provided than formerly.
    The moss of Crinan affords abundance of turf for fuel.  Coals
are generally used by all who can afford to purchase them, being
cheaper and more comfortable. than peat, according to the present
rate of labour.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
This parish, in common with the surrounding district, has un-
dergone a great change in the way of improvement, Within the last
fifty,years.  Instead of the rude-formed wooden plough drawn by
four horses all abreast, and the driver with his face to the horses going
backwards, as there described, the well-modelled and neatly con-
structed iron plough, drawn by a pair of horses, and easily managed
by oneman, performs double tbe work, and doubly betterdone, inhalf
the time.  Instead of the stated number of days' work exacted by
the proprietors from their tenants, crofters, and cottars, as servi-
lude, in addition to the money rent, which was generally perform-


