
86                 STIRLINGSHIRE.

per annum; 8 women,who gain 5s. per week,or L.13 per annnum;
25 boys, under fourteen years of age, who gain 2s. 3d. per week, or
L.5, 17s. per annum; 20, girls, who gain each 2s. per week, or
L.5, 4s. per annum. They work six days in the week, and ten
hours a-day, and receive annually in wages L. 2772, 5s.
   One bleaching establishment employs 30 men, 20 women, 8
boys, under fourteen years, and 6 girls. They work six days in
the week, and eleven hours a day. The wages of the men vary
according to the nature of their work, from 11s. to 21s. per week.
The wages of the women are 6s. per week, and of the boys and
girls 3s. 9d. Taking the average of the men at 14s. per week, the
total annual wages will be L. 1540, 1Os.
   Another bleachfield employs 3 men, above twenty years of age,
at 12s. per week, making per annum, L. 93, 12s.; 2 men, under
twenty years, at 10s. per week, making L.52 per annum ; and 12
women, all above twenty years, at 6s. per week, making L.187, 4s.
In all, L. 332, 16s.
   The wages ate considered as affording a fair remuneration to
those who are employed in these works. The labour is as healthy
as that of farming. Many of the workers are distinguished for
their piety and intelligence. By the constant employment which
they give to many who would otherwise be idle, and by the de-
mand which the workers make for farm-produce, these establish-
ments are of great advantage to the parish.
  Farmers' Society.--The Farmers' Society is the only Associa-
tion in the parish for the purpose of improving its members in the
theory and practice of their profession ; and it has done much to
promote a good style of ploughing.

		 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town.-Glasgow, at the distance of twelve miles from
the centre of the parish, is the nearest market-town ; with which
communication is maintained every day by post ; by two Balfron
carriers, who pass through the parish to and from Glasgow, four
times in the week; and by a stage-coach which runs betwixt Glas-
gow and Balfron every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday.'
  Means of Communication.--Ten miles of turnpike-road intersect
the parish. The narrowness of the road in the Strath, and the
hilliness of the high ground amid which it passes, render it ex-
ceedingly exhausting and injurious to horses in draught. There
are ten stone bridges in the parish ; but an eleventh is. wanted to
render the accommodation complete. The Strath and table-land

                                4


