
346                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

1746. After being two years a probationer, the reputation, of his
learning and ability attracted the notice of Sir Thomas Burnett
of Leys, who, though personally unacquainted with him, and un-
solicited by any of Mr Campbell's friends, generously presented
him with the living of Banchory. The date of his settlement is
25th November 1747. "It was while be held this charge," says
his friend and biographer, Dr Keith, "that the powers of his mind
began more fully to unfold themselves, and his character to rise
in the opinion of men of learning. In a short time he was con
sidered the best lecturer, or expounder of Holy Scripture in this
part of the country. It was while explaining the New Testament
to his parishioners, that he first formed a plan of translating the
four Gospels, which he afterwards published; and it was in this
country parish, long before any attention was paid in the north of
Scotland to the nineties of grammar, that he composed a part of
his Philosophy-of Rhetoric." It appears that his celebrated
Dissertation on Miracles, first drawn up in the form of a ser-
mon preached before the synod, October 1769, war begun also
in this place, and that the scenery and circumstances then exist-
ing around him afforded several of its illustrations. Only a few
memorials of his incumbency exist, and but a few faint recol-
lections of him remain among some of the oldest parishioners.
An apartment, with a turreted window, in the old manse, is
shown to strangers as his study; and the old oak pulpit, in
which he preached, is still preserved. The session records show
that, tinder his ministry, the former severity of kirk censures was
somewhat relaxed; and a few trivial incidents mentioned, indi-
cate, as might be expected, a firm and judicious management.
The weak state of his health seems to have required his occa-
sional absence, and, along with his studious habits, prevented those
laborious exertions among his parishioners which distinguished
some of his predecessors. It is still reported, and of this there
are some traces in the register, that certain parties in the parish
endeavoured to render his situation unpleasant, and that this, with
his literary and philosphical tastes, made him desirous of a remov-
al to town. After he had been here nine years, he became one,
of the ministers of Aberdeen, 23d June, 1757. Subsequently he
was made Principal, and afterwards Professor of Divinity, in Ma-
rischal College. On the Sunday previous to his settlelent in
Aberdeen, he preached a farewell discourse to his congregation,
from 2d  Corinthians xiii. II, which seems to have produced a
				4


