
                            DREGHORN.                           527

and run in irregular lines along the highway, and being interspersed
with old trees, and neatly kept and white-washed, have a very rural
appearance. The village contains 277 inhabitants,--the male part
of whom, with the exception of a few mechanics who find employ-
ment among the neighbouring farmers, are occupied in agricultu-
ral labour.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Before the Reformation, this parish eccle-
siastically belonged to the Tyronenses monks at Kilwinning, and
was united in 1688 to that of Peirceton, regarding which union
nothing is known with certainty,--the portion of the parish record
which might throw light upon it having been accidentally or surrep-
titiously removed. The present church, built about fifty years ago,
which is situate in the village at the south extremity of the parish,
is a very simple and rather beautiful building, of an octagonal
form, and can accommodate about 427 persons. The average at-
tendance at church is in summer 200, and in winter 130 persons.
The inhabitants who reside in the immediate vicinity appear pretty
regularly there, and the distant population frequent the chtrches
which lie more contiguous, and are more accessible to them.
	The number of families in the parish attending the Established
Church is 110: of families attending the chapels of Dissenters and
Seceders, 31.
	The manse is a very good house, built about the same time as
the church. The income of the clergyman is 16 chalders of
grain. He possesses a glebe of remarkably good land, in extent
about 4 1/2 acres.
	Education.--The parochial school in the village is attended by
100 children, who are carefully instructed in the usual branches
of education, at the rate of from 3s. to 5s. per quarter. The sa-
lary of the schoolmaster is L. 30, and the whole emoluments of
his situation amount to L. 100 per annum.
	A school partially endowed is also kept in the centre of the pa-
rish, and is attended by 40 children.
	Poor.--There are few paupers in this parish. Their number is
on an average 15, and their monthly allowance from the heritors
and kirk-session, 4s. The amount of parish collections for the poor
is on an average L. 22, 11s.: of legal assessments, L. 42, 10s.
	Ale-houses.--There are 5 ale-houses in the parish; their effect
on the morals of the inhabitants does not appear to be more detri-
mental than in other places.
	November 1838.


