
                             HAWICK.                  383

high.  It first appeared in the spring of 1832, when only a few
cases occurred, but in the autumn of the same year it again  broke
out, and continued to rage for four or five weeks.  Of nearly 70
cases that occurred during this period about 30 died.
   There is another disease which is endemic in certain localities,
more especially in Derbyshire and in some districts of Switzerland
of which a good many cases have occurred in this parish.  It is
technically called Bronchocele, and consists of an enlargement of
the thyroid gland, inducing great difficulty of breathing, but seldom
proving fatal.  Some families are more subject to it than others.
   Hydrography.--Of the springs which everywhere abound in
this parish, it may be mentioned, that there are three on the con-
fines of the Carlisle road, and at the distance of about a mile from
the town, which, though rising in the immediate vicinity of each
other, afford water distinguished by qu`lities altogether different.
One is obviously calcareous, as appears from the deposit on the
rocks over which it passes.  Another yields water of the purest
description, free apparently from every foreign admixture.  And
the third is a weak chalybeate, frequently made use of for its me-
dicinal qualities by the inhabitants of the town, and believed by
them in many instances to have proved benefhcial.  These different
springs rise within the space of 200 yards, proceeding apparently
from the same kind of rocks, and passing through the same kind
of soil.
   Inundation.-An inundation, which usually receives here the
designation of " Hawick Flood," forms quite an era in the history
of this place.  This event, which occurred in August 1767, was
occasioned by a fall of rain about the source of the Slitridge no
less copious than sudden, for in the course of two hours the river
where it passes through the town had risen upwards of twenty
feet, and in the space of a similar period, had sunk again to its
usual level, leaving, however, the traces of considerable devasta-
tion, the walls of the manse garden being broken down, the pa-
rish school and a corn-mill destroyed, and an entire street com-
pletely swept from its found`tions, whilst the lives of two indivi-
duals were lost, and many others endangered, by the violence of
the torrent.
   Geology.--There is little that is specially deserving of notice
in the geology of this parish.  The rocks consist of graywacke.
Their direction is south-east and north-West, and the strata, though
rising nearly perpendicular, have a south-west  dip  or inclination.



