
		               PARISH OF SORN.

                PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		      THE REV. JOHN STEWART, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE, parish of Sorn, in all likelihood, derives its name
from the Celtic word Sorn, signifying a snout, projection, or dis-
agreeable visage, and may have been so called from the projection,
promontory, or eminence, on which the castle stands. In Alex-
ander and Donald Stewart's Collection of the Highland Bards, we
find a song addressed to a gentleman drivelling in a farm in Mull,
called Sorn. In the parish of Morven, and on the side of Loch-
Sunart, there is a farm situated on an eminence called Sorna.
There is alsoa place in Cornwall where the Celtic language was
spoken until the beginning of last century, and in some instances
preached called Sorne. The original name of the parish was Dal-
gain, (the ground on which the church, manse, and grebe stand,
having been a grant from the late Hugh Mitchell, Esq. of Dal-
gain,) and is supposed to have been changed in consequence of the
vicinity of Sorn Castle, an ancient seat of the Loudon family, to
the church. Dalgain, like Sorn, is of Celtic origin, being evidently
derived from Dal and gaineimh, the field of sand or gravel,--a
name strikingly descriptive of the soil on which the old house of
Dalgain stands.
	Extent and Boundaries.--Sorn is nearly a square, whose side is
about 6 1/2 miles, and is intersected by the river Ayr. It is bound-
ed on the east, by the parish of Muirkirk; on the west, by the
parish of Mauchline; on the north, by the parish of Galston; and
on the south, by the parish of Auchinleck.
	Topographical Appearances.--The external appearance of the
parish is considerably diversified by its rising grounds, and its level
holms on the banks of the Ayr, as well as by the large extent of moors
and mosses which adjoin the land now under cultivation, and which
have been greatly improved of late years. The only hill of any
considerable height in the parish is Blackside-end, situated on, the


