
			CAMBUSLANG.                            423

Like the other strata of the district, it dips towards Clyde: and
wherever coal pits have been sunk, it has been found at the depth
of from 180 to 200 feet. At such a depth, it cannot easily be
come at; but there is a place on the Kirk-burn, to the south-west
of the church, where it has been wrought at several times. It is
of a dark gray, or more rarely of a reddish-colour, and is beauti-
fully ornamented with white bivalve shells. Both varieties take
a good polish, and are occasionally used for ornamental purposes.
Of this marble there is a handsome mantel piece at Chatelherault
near Hamilton, and in the College library at Glasgow; and at Dud-
dingstone, near Queensferry, it has been still more amply made
use of. There is abundance of freestone on the Kirk-burn, near the
manse. It is of a whitish colour, hard and close-grained, and con-
sequently capable of being made very smooth and beautiful. It
is held in high estimation, and is often carried to a great distance.
At Brenshaw, a little to  the east, a red sandstone of a different tex-
ture, and of a much coarser grain, is much used in building. This
seems to be the outcrop of a new or upper red sandstone, which
covers so large a portion of the middle ward of Lanarkshire, and
evidently lies on the top of the usual coal measures. Below this
sandstone, there are two seams of coal, each about 10 inches thick,
and from 6 to 10 feet separated, lying in a thick bed of fire clay.
Connected with it, is the 10 feet bed of white argillaceous sand-
stone, which is the uppermost of our coal measures. It is gene-
rally intersected horizontally with layers of slate clay. Dechmont
(the rampart of protection or of peace,) and Turnlaw are entire-
ly composed of whin, and furnish abundance of excellent mate-
rials for making roads. On the east side of Dechmont, is a quarry
of excellent blue metal, from which upwards of 2000 cubic yards
are cut annually. It is of a hard grain, and of a rough prickly
texture, and is interspersed with veins of quartz. Some of these
are of various colours, such as red, blue, violet, and are often got
in large pieces. The whin here, as at Shotts and New Monkland,
evidently overlaps the freestone. It seems to cover not more than
from 300 to 400 acres. The soil upon and around the hill is
light and stony; that of the rest of the parish is mostly clay, on
a tilly subsoil. Along the banks of the Clyde it is partly a light
loam, and partly a light sand. The general succession of strata
throughout the whole of this district is argillaceous freestone,
schistus, including slate-clay, and bituminous shale, ironstone,


