
     Statistical Account

established, or at least none that can encourage population to
any perceptible extent?  In answer to this, it may be observ-
ed, that the convenience of fuel seems to be one great cause,
why the number of inhabitants rapidly increases here, whilst
population continues at a stand, or rather diminishes, in the
parishes adjacent.  In most parts of Galloway, and especially
in the flat country, and on the sea coast, the mosses are either
entirely worn out, or dug so deep, that they stand covered with
water; nor are the proprietors very attentive to the draining
of such mosses as are in this situation.  Coals, indeed, might
be had from England, at the rate of about 4 d. per cwt., in
the course of fair trade; but then a very ill judged tax, on
coals carried coastwife, precludes this advantage, which equal-
ly points at the improvement of navigation, manufactures and
agriculture.  If we add to the duty on coals carried coast-
wife as actually paid to government, the insolence of custom-
house officers, and the vexatious manner in which they reduce
their instructions to practice, it may be averred safely, that
the cwt. of coals, that could be had for 4 d. at farthest islands
the consumer above a shilling.  Frequent and continued ap-
plications have been made to government for taking off this
tax, equally pernicious and impolitic.  One answer, however,
has constantly been made to all complaints on this subject:
What tax will you pu in place of the duty upon coals carried
coastwise?  or, How do you propose to remunerate government
for the diminution of revenue thus occasioned?  One can hard-
ly obviate such a childish difficulty, without being somewhat
ruffled.  There is not one sensible man in Gallloway, who will
or can deny, that if the tax on coals had been suppressed: 10
years ago, the king would have had 10,000 subjects more in
the maritime part of this country.  Now the taxation on
these, making the estimate at only 20 s. a head, must have
yielded government ten times the tax in question.  How the
interest of the custom-house might have flood, is another que-


