
     of Bendothy.

<FOOTNOTE>

to the camp.  The Roman legions, he says, were drawn up "pro vallo,"
before the vallum of Cleaven Dike, at such distance behind the battle, that
they could be of no immediate service there; anti therefore, upon seeing
the number of the enemy, many advised to bring up the legions, "plerique
"admonebant arcessendas legiones."  A mile and a hall weft from Mickle-
hour is another Roman camp at Inchtuthill, a proud inch or island within
the high flood-mark of the Tay; and which the watchplace (or trenches,
called the Steed's Stalls, in the parish of Cluny), was intended to overlook:
The said trenches, 8 in number, fit to hold and conceal 100 horses, being in
a straight line between Buzzart Dikes and lnchtuthill.  Another watch-
place on the same eminence overlooks the camp at Micklehour.
The Stour-ment, or main battle, happened in the heart of the Stormont,
upon ascending ground, in the parishes of Kinloch, Cluny, and Blairgowrie,
at the places called, Cairns, Upper Balcairn, Nether Balcairn, Calmbutts,
and Craig Roman, on the side of the Grampian ridge, between 3 and 4 miles
N. from Micklehour, (Cairn being a common name given to artificial col-
lections of stones and earth laid over the dead).  The ascent is interfected
by many singular ridges, or drums, that run parallel to the base of the
mountain; these are the" colles" noticed by Tacitus, " engere in colles acrem
"copere."  The Gairydrums, on which the Caledonian camp of Buzzart Dikes
lies, are very singular ground, being several high and narrow ridges or
drums, (of which the farmer that occupies them observed as follows, " Gen-
"tlemen that come to see this place say, that they never saw the like of
"them in any country.")  These drums are mentioned by Tactitus in the
words, following "Britanni, qur adhuc pugn‘ expertes tumma collium
"insederant, degredi paulatim et circumire terga vincentrum coperant."
The Here Cairns of Gormak, below, and immediately contiguous, lying
close together, about 80 in number, and about 15 feet each by 5 in height,
mark the contest that followed; " quantoque scrocius accurrtant, tanto
"acnus pulsos in fugam d sjecisset."
   The flight is still to be traced by numerous tumuli, through Maws, in the
parish of Blangowne, along the track that hes between the moss of Coch-
ridge on the W. and the river Eroch on the E.; "grande et atrox spectacu-
"lum,-corpora, et laceri artus, et cruenta humus."  The Great Cairn of
Max, hes in this tract, not far from the woody banks of the Eroch: "Ira
"virtuique victis; postquam silvis appropiquarunt*, collecti, primos cir-
"cumveniebant."  This cairn is 27 yards broad, and about four feet high.

<FOOTNOTE>

   *When a troublesome person abstains from fighting, upon finding that
he is like to meet with has master, the fight is said to be "let a-be for let
"a-be, like the fight of Maws."

     VOL. XIX. 3 A


