
			COUNTY OF WIGTON.                       233

above Glendochart, the line is interrupted by a circular stone wall
190 yards in diameter. This is evidently a hill-fort of large di-
mensions. In the farm of Knockvill, which adjoins that of Glen-
dochart, the dike runs into the loch of Cree. From the opposite
side of the loch, it passes through the Cumberwood, and appears
again in Cordorken, in the parish of Minnigaff; thence stretches
along the hill of Blair, in the farm of Torregan, and across the
moor of Dranandow, between the standing stones, called the
Thieves and the Nappers. As it passes from Torregan to Dran-
andow, it runs through a bog, and is only perceptible by the hea-
ther growing long and close on the top of it; whereas, on each side
the soil only produces rushes and moss. Near the centre of the
bog, I caused the peat to be cleared away close to the dike, and
thereby found the foundation to be several feet below the surface,
which appeared to me a sure indication of its great antiquity.
  "From the Craw-Stane of Dranandow, the dike passes along the
south side of the Garlick, through the farm of Auchinleck, over
the south side of Drigmorn, and by the foot of Tonergee. It
crosses the burn of Pilnure, and appears again on the south side
of Talnetrie. It goes up Craignelder, on the farm of Corwar,
passes to Craigencallie, and is very entire in the Garrory, Clanry,
Duckieston, Largrave, and Knockreach. Near the old bridge of
Deuch, it appears again, and continues through thd farms of
Lookaig, Auchinshinnoch, and hill-end of Keroch. It passes
through Glencairn, Tynron, Penpont, and is nearly entire in the
farm of Southmains, in the parish of Sanquhar.
  "Keeping the course of the great dike, Southmains is upwards
of fifty miles from Lochryan. In this distance, there are so many
connecting links as to leave no doubt of this vast ruin having been
conjoined. Where there is any breach in it, I was fortunate
enough, in almost every instance, to find old people who remember-
ed the stones having been carried away from that part of the dike,
to make enclosures in the neighbourbood.
  "From Southmains, it is said to have taken an easterly direction
till it joined the large dike, yet so entire at Thornithwaite, and at
Hightae Flow, in the parish of Lochmaben. Thence it extended
to Britton Wall, in the parish of Annan, and ran into the Solway,
nearly opposhte Bowness, in Cumberland, where the great wall of
Adrian commenced.
  "Dr Clapperton of Annan, the father of the celebrated traveller
of that name, traced the Deil's Dike far to the westward of
Hightae Flow; but I am afraid the details of his survey are lost,
    WIGTON.                         Q


