
             GLENMUICK, TULLLICH, AND GLENGAIRN.                 785

their relief is L.65, 6s. 6d., viz. church collections, L.41, 13S. 8d.
donations, L.6, 13s. 11d.; penalties, L.6, 12s. 6d.; mortcloth dues,
6s. 5d.; and L.10, the interest of L.250, settled for their behoof,
at 4 per cent.  From this is to be deducted L.6 for each session-clerk's.
precentor's, and kirk-offices salaries, or L.2 for each, which leaves
only L.59, 6s. 6d. to be divided among 84 paupers.  Besides what
has been now stated, there is no other mode of procuring funds for
their relief.  But here it may be proper to mention, that John Bur-
nett, Esq. of Dens, and formerly a merchant in Aberdeen, by a deed
of settlement, left this residuary estate, which turned out to be L.2000
Sterling, for the following charitable purpose: That is to say-
he appointed his Trustees and the Synod of Aberdeen to appor-
tion and divide the interest of it, in the way be has prescribed, for
the behoof of all the parishes within the county of Aberdeen, with
the particular exception of the town and parish of Aberdeen, for
which he had made provision in a prior and separate deed.  And
the method pointed out by the latter deed, here referred to, is
briefly this,-that his Trustees and the Synod shall, with the ex-
ception of Aberdeen, take all the parishes within this county in
rotation; that, at the beginning of each rotation, they shall deter-
mine the quantum to be allowed to each parish, according to its
population, the number of its poor, the extent of its funds, and
other circumstances at the time; that no parish shall receive more
than L.50 nor less than L.20 in each rotation; that no distinction
shall be made of persons on account of their religious professions,
but that preference shall be shown to such as have lived soberly
and religiously; that, after having gone over all the parishes in one
rotation, the managers shall, at the beginning of the next rotation,
determine the quantum to earth parish anew, and proceed as for-
merly and so on in all time; thereafter.  Our parish has been
found entitled to the maximum, L.50, which it has received, twice
in rotation since the commencement of the distributions, viz. in
1816 and in 1832.  And, it is to be hoped, that it will come round
again in about half the former time, as an addition has been made
to the original stock from funds lately realized which will nearly
double the interest.
   It must also, mentioned that, besides this, the Invercauld
Trustees have under their management the interest of L.500, des-
tined for poor householders and others in reduced circumstances,
which they divide annually.  With this our session has no farther
concern than in recommending to the trustees such persons as it
   ABERDEEN.                                  3 D


