                                     ARDCHATTAN.                            495
	studded with ancient cairns, rude Druidical temples, obelisks, and
	other relics of the olden time, has aptly enough been regarded as
	the celebrated  "plains of Lora."*
	     Ardchattan Priory will always be regarded by the ecelesiastical an-
	tiquarian as an interesting object, serving, like other buildings of the
	same description, to show the vicissitudes of human affairs, and the
	instability of human institutions. This once celebrated monastic es-
	tablishment is now little better than an iyy-mantled ruin ; and the
	roots of ash and plain trees, which -row profusely on its fragments,
	and which act like so many wedges in separating its component parts
	must hasten the time when all that remains of it will be levelled
	with the dust. It was founded in 1231, by Duncan M'Coull, sup-
	posed ancestor of the Lords of Lorn ; and belonged to the order
	of Vallis Caulium, a reform of the Cistertians, and the strictest of
	that class of Monks which followed the rules of St Benedict.  It
	appears that, by their constitution, none of the inmates, excepting
	the Prior and Procurator, was permitted, on any pretence, to go
	beyond the precinctr of the monastery.  The entrance to the pri-
	ory was from the west, but dilapidated as the whole now is, a cor-
	rect judgment can scarcely be formed of the architectural design
	and details, and there are no ancient drawings from which these
	may be learned.  The site of the church, or chapel of the order
	can still be distinctly traced.  It was 66 feet in length by 28
	feet in breadth within walls ; but the basis of the pillars which
	supported the arches of the aisles on each side of the middle
	avenue, if these at all exist, as it is likely they may, are buried be-
	neath the rubbish.  The transept was beyond this, a part of its
	wall being pretty entire, while, at the centre of the cross, and over
	the main entrance to the church from the west, a square tower
	was erected, the double walls at that entrance being 9 feet in
	thickness.  The cloisters, the arched outward entrance to which
	is still visible, thouoh built up, were situated to the north, and
	from these there was a private door to the church about the middle

	<FOOTNOTE> *The names oflocalities in this neighbourbood may also be considered corroborative
	of what has thus been alleged: the name ofa bay beyond Lochnell House, for in-
	stance, is Camus-Nathuis, i. e. "the bay of Nathos;" this Nathos being the son of Us-
	noth, and nephew to Cuchullin, regent of Ireland, celebrated in Ossian's poem of
	"Darthula." The name of one of the farms in Muckairn is CaiU'-Nathuis," i. e. "the
	wood or forest of Nathos." In Loch Etive, above Bunawe, we have Ellan Uisneach-
	ain, that is, "the island of Usnoth;" and beyond Dalness, Grianan Dearduil, " the
	little plain of Darthula," while there is a rising ground near Barcaldine Castle, named
	Tom-Ossinn, "the bill of Ossian," the tradition bearing that this was a favourite seat
	of the aged bard.


