
                            PETERHEAD.                    373

never by him brought before Parliament, and the harbour conti-
nued in the same ruinous state at the time of his forfeiture in 1716.
   The estate and harbours of Peterhead, after Earl Marischall's
attainder, were purchased from Government by the York-Build-
ings Company; but this company adopted no measures for repair-
ing the harbours, although a petition was presented to the mana-
gers, pointing out the urgent necessity of having them repaired.
In 1726, the estate was sold, along with the harbours, to the Go-
vernors of the Merchant Maiden Hospital of Edinburgh, who still
continue superiors of the town and harbours.  At that time, from
the limited extent of the harbours, and the state of repair they
had fallen into, the revenue amounted only to L. 12 per annum ;
and only three small vessels belonged to the port.  In July 1729,
an act of the Convention of Royal Burghs was obtained in favour of
the town of Peterhead, for a voluntary contribution throughout all
the burghs of the country for repairing these harbours.  It does
not appear what the extent of the contribution obtained was, but
it would appear it had not been adequate to the repairs, for, in
1730, the ship-masters of Leith, and merchants of Edinburgh
gave an attestation of the great public utility of these harbours;
and the town-council of Edinburgh authorized a collection to be
made in all the churches of the city and its neighbourhood, which
was made accordingly, and amounted to L. 240, 14s. 6d. Sterling;
and so much anxiety was evinced for the repairs of these harbours,
that, in February 1740, an assembly was held in Edinburgh in aid
of the other collections for this purpose.
   From the year 1740 to the year 1771, it may be supposed that
the trade of the town had not made rapid progress;-the follow-
ing being the annual amount of the harbour duties at different pe-
riods in that interval; in 1741, L. 20, 8s. 4d. ; 1751, L. 30; 1761,
L.50, 15s. ; 1771, L. 59, 10s.
   In 1771, it would appear that the south harbour had again fal-
len into disrepair, and, with the aid of contributions from the royal
burghs, from the superiors, from private individuals, and from
money raised upon the security of the property belonging to the
community of feuars, the harbour began to be again repaired.
About this time the plan of the present south harbour was obtain-
ed from the late Mr Smeaton, engineer, and the building of it ac-
cording to his plan commenced in June 1773.  The construction
of the old south harbour was just the reverse of that of the new
bne.  The old harbour was enclosed by two curved piers towards


