
         GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

     ON THE COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.*


   HADDINGTONSHIRE is situated between 55&deg;; 46' 10" and 56&deg; 4'
of north latitude, and between 2&deg; 8' and 2&deg; 49' longitude west
from London. It is bounded by Mid-Lothian on the west ; Ber-
wickshire on the south; the German ocean on the east; and by the
Frith of Forth on the north and northo-west. It is nearly 25
miles in length from Ravenshaugh burn on the west to Dunglass
burn on the east, and being something like the form of a triangle
on each side of that line, its greatest distance from it to the south
in the parish of Fala is 9 miles, and its greatest distance to the
north, in the parish of Dirleton, is 9 miles which gives 224
square miles, or 114,688 acres Scotch measure, as the superficies
of the whole county, and of which 82,184 are known to be arable.
It takes its name from Haddington the county town, which is
pleasantly situated on the river Tyne, near its centre. The county
is generally spoken of as East Lothian, but that name properly
refers to the arable lands only, the rest of the shire being com-
posed of part of the Lammermuir-hills, which stretch along its
southern border. It was long merely a constabulary, and subject
to the jurisdiction of the Sheriff of Edinburgh, and it is still occa-
sionally mentioned under that designation; but in the first act of
James VII. it is considered a distinct shire, and has continued an
independent sheriffdom since the Revolution.
   For many years, the county formed part of the Saxon kingdom
of Northumberland, but it was annexed to Scotland by Malcolm
II. in A. D. 1020. From that period till 1296, it is said to have
enjoyed comparative tranquillity, and to have made considerable
progress in agricultural improvement; but the sanguinary wars
that commenced then, regarding the succession to the Scottish
throne, desolated the county to nearly the middle of the follow-
ing century.  During the fifteenth century, it also repeatedly suf-

           <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Robert Hope; Esq. Fentonbarns.


