
                           ABERDEEN.                            57

the continuance of such assessment, the money was directed to
be applied by the managers of the Infirmary, one-half to defray
the expense of a physician to attend the sick poor of Aberdeen,
who are not proper objects to be received into the infirmary, and
the other half to the maintenance of pauper lunatics belonging to
the town and county of Aberdeen ; and this alteration in the des-
tination is declared perpetual if the assessment shall continue to
be levied for seven successive years.  The other third part of the
rents was directed to be accumulated, for the purpose of yielding
at the end of every forty years, (reckoned from 1774,) two prizes,
of L. 1200 and L. 400 respectively, to be given to the authors of
the two best essays on the following subject, " that there is a Being
all-powerful, wise, and good, by whom every thing exists'; and
particularly to obviate difficulties regarding the wisdom and good-
ness of the Deity ; and this, in the first place, from considerations
independent of written Revelation; and in the second place, from
the Revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ; and from the whole to
point out the inferences most necessary and useful to mankind."
   The decision of these prizes he directed to be by a committee
of three individuals, chosen by his trustees and the Professors of
King's and Marischal Colleges.
  The term of forty years prescribed by Mr Burnett, expiring in
1814, the first adjudication of the prizes took place in that
year: the three judges appointed by the trustees and the profes-
sors were, the Rev. Dr Gilbert Gerrard, Professor of Divinity
in King's College; Dr Robert Hamilton, Professor of Natural
Philosophy in Marischal College; :and the Rev. Dr George
Glennie, Professor of Moral Philosophy in Marischal College;
and the first prize was by them adjudged to the Rev. Dr William
Lawrence Brown, Principal of Marischal College; and the se-
cond to the Rev. John Bird Summer, the present Bishop of Chester.
   An surplus of this fund that may remain after thei payment of
these prizes is directed to be laid out in the purchase of lands,
the rents of which are to be added to the other two-thirds.
   From the time of Mr Burnett's death until last year, the former
destination of these two-thirds has been acted on by his trustees,
and about 160 of the most deserving of the poor in Aberdeen have
been supplied by the distribution of these funds in small monthly
payments.  An assessment having, however, been found altogether
unavoidable, this source of supply to the poor began cut off, and
the pensioners on this fund have been transferred to the parochial


