
492                          FORFARSHIRE.

never enters it. There are also arches and excavations high up
the prebipices far above the reach of the present tides.
	There is one remarkable perforation, about a mile south from
Auchmithie, called the Geary Pot, (probably named from the gy-
ration of the sea at the bottom of the hollow), which terminates
the natural arch, extending from the sea for 200 yards. This
has evidently been excavated, through successive ages, by the
wasting away, originally, of several veins of sulphate of baryta.
The depth of this ravine is about 120 feet, and the descent to the
bottom of it is practicable, though not easy. Besides the three
miles of rocky shore, there is one mile to the east of Arbroath,
of a sandy shore, where the bank retires about 100 yards ; and
on the Inverpeffer estate, to the west of Arbroath, there is another
mile and a-half of sandy shore, with a large space of links and
sand hillocks, through which the Dundee and Arbroath Railway
passes.
	The temperature of the atmosphere of this parish is lower on
an average than what its height above the sea level would indicate.
The cross valley in which it lies, affording an easy passage to cur-
rents of air between the ocean and the Grampians, partakes some-
what of the moisture of the one, and of the cold winds from the
other. There is a marked difference between this climate and
similar situations on the coast of the Frith of Forth; for instance,
`bnut Musselburgh. From simultaneous observations made at
both places, it was found that, in clear nights, the thermometer
falls much lower in the latter place than it does here; while, on
days of much sun, the temperature at Musselburgb rises Mucb
higher. Here the maximum temperature of the day occurs at
about half-past twelve; after that, in sunny days, it rapidly sinks;
the sea breeze setting in with chilly damp, causing the afternoons
to be far less agreeable, than in more inland situations, even of
Forfarshire. Our fruits and harvest are at least a fortnight later
than in the fields and gardens towards Dundee. A haze seen at the
mouth of the Tay, or a particular brilliancy of the Bell Rock
lights, are both accounted signs of approaching rain.
	A register has been kept daily, with general regularity and ac-
curacy, for the last four years of the temperature of the atmo-
sphere. The thermometer was hung at complete freedom, four
feet from the ground, on a post in the open garden, in a northern
aspect, shaded by boards from the sun, on the other three sides,
but fully exposed to the air, and the following table exhibits the
				4



