
                       MONQUHITTER.                         767

beef of our cattle is very highly esteemed, and generally brings a
superior price in the London market.
   The horses in this parish and district, though not of a large
size, are well built, and of a very hardy description; and as the far-
mers are generally careful, both as to their feeding, and the timing
of their work, they can bear great fatigue.  They seem to par-
take somewhat of the old Galloway, which, perhaps, for all useful
purposes, was the finest, breed of horses ever known in Britain.
   The leases of farms generally extend to, aud seldom exceed
the term of, nineteen years.  As the farms are generally small,
with few exceptions exceeding two or four horse labour, the farm-
buildings, which are mostly thatched with straw or heather, are
not large, but commodious, and well adapted to the extent of the
farms.
   Till within the last few years, and for several generations past,
the Cumines of Auchry were the principal proprietors in the pa-
rish of Monquhitter, and were much and deservedly esteemed for
their public spirit and private benevolence.  About the middle of
the last century, the late Joseph Cumine of Auchry was distin-
guished, not only in this district, but throughout the whole of the
north of Scotland, for the stimulus which he gave to agricultural
improvements.  When he assumed the management of his estate
in 1739, it was principally covered with heath and yielded only
L.150 Sterling of rent.  He laid out extensive plantations around
his own house, subdivided his farm into ornamental enclosures, in-
troduced a superior breed of cattle, founded the village of Cumines-
town, in the immediate vicinity of the church, and, in connexion,
with some neighbouring gentlemen, established in this village a
linen manufacture, which has been kept tip ever since.  By the
judicious, management of his property, he left it to his heirs, yield-
ing an annual revenue of more than L.600 per annum.  The rental
of it was upwards of L.2500 per annum in 1830 when it was
divided into lots, and disposed of by his son, the late Archibald
Cumine Esq. James Lumsden, Esq. who was the purchaser of
the principal part of the property, and who is the only resident he-
ritor of any extent in the parish, has been doing much, and set-
ting a laudable example in the way of improvement, He is drain-
ing and trenching to a great extent, and by planting, hedging, and;
fencing, is not only beautifying his estate, but affording employ-
ment to a great number of labourers.  He has introduced several
agricultural implements of a new and improved description; he


