
     Statistical Account

general, rough and hilly, and better adapted to pasture than
tillage.  The hills are neither steep, barren, nor rocky, but
rise gradually from the sea-shore, with an easy ascent, are flat
at the heights, and covered with heath, and grass intermixed;
so that cattle, as well as sheep, graze upon them even in win-
ter.  The arable land on the declivities is not a good qua-
lity, being a mixture of moss, clay, and gravel, or till.  But
the low ground near the shore, and in the glens, is warm and
fertile.  It is remarkable, that all the glens run in the same
direction from N. W. to S. E., and are covered near the bot-
tom or lower ends with flat points jetting into the sea, and
forming beautiful bays.  This happy exposure gives them the
benefit of the early sun, and during the whole day; a cir-
cumstance extemely favourable to vegetation.  During the
summer and autumn, the degree of heat in these glens is very
great, but they are frequently refreshed with drizzling rains
and flying showers; the good effects of which, constantly fol-
low; for, though the sowing here be later two weeks or more
than in the uplands, yet the harvest is sooner over, and the
grain much heartier and better filled.  For ths reason, a-
mong others, all the farms (except a few moor farms) are set
off so as to have a share of hill and dale, with access to the 
shore.  The farm-houses are in general, very decent, parti-
cularly those lately built, of which there is a great number,
and are judiciously placed near the middle of the grounds, so
as to have the best land between them and the shore, on which
they lay out all their dung and what sea-weed they can find,
as fittest for their principal crops, bear, potatoes, pease, beans,
etc. and is under a perpetual rotation of crops.  This divi-
sion of the farm is called the wintertown.  Next above the
farm-steadings, are the Outfields, alternately under oats, pas
ture, and separated from the hill or moor by a head-wall.
These outfields are subdived into small enclosures with 


