
                        TARLAND AND MIGVIE.                    841

   Along the burn, on both sides eastward, the strata and beds
are various, consistinG of rich loam, clay, peat, gravel, with logs
of oak, alder, fir, &c. imbedded six or eight feet deep.  The sur-
face soil consists of various alluvial deposits from two to three feet
deep.  As the ground rises, say 10 or 12 feet from the level of
the plain and burn, the soil is various, being, for the most part,
of light and moory surface, with subsoil of shingle and pure sand.
From 10 to 20 feet higher, and approaching the north hills, the
soil is generally much improved, consisting chiefly of rich loam
mixed with clay, and the subsoil solid clay.  Along the side of
these hills, so far as cultivated, the soil appears mostly pure
clay.  The same soil prevails from the one end of the parish to
the other, eastward about four miles, and is very productive in
grain, bear, and oats; and though about a fortnight later in
ripening than the ground in the immediate vicinity of Tarland,
it is less exposed to hoar frost and mildew, and is productive of
more substantial grain of any kind or quality which suits the cli-
mate.  Dry solid rocks of white, grey, blue, and sand-coloured
granite abound from one end of the parish to the other, all ac-
knowledged to be of superior quality ; and along the side of these
north hills, the soil contains many clay boulders (boulers), from
20 to 50 feet in circumference, the surface consisting of wet
mossy turf, from 2 to 6 inches deep, then a stratum of moss, but
more frequently of thin white and blue clay, of the consistence of
Iime prepared for harling or plaster-work.  Plantations in the pa-
rish are very limited, and much wanted.  The soil seems conge-
nial to most sorts of timber, especially common Scotch fir, larch,
ash, and hard-wood of every description.  Some enclosures and
plantations have been lately made on moory ground upon the Earl
of Aberdeen's property, which promises to do remarkably well,
and will tend much to improve the climate, and prove beneficial
to the tenantry.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The chief landowners in Tarland and Migvie
parishes, within Cromar, are the Earl of Aberdeen, and Marquis
of Huntly ; and the proprietors of Invereauld and Finzean.  In
the detached part of Tarland parish in Strathdon, and of Migvie
on Deskrieside, the proprietors of New and Edinglassie, of Inver-
ernan, of Candacraig, and of Freefield, are heritors; in all,
eight.
   Parochial Registers.-Parochial registers of baptisms and mar-


