
                         INNERWICK.                         243

the learned author refers, may be accounted for by the effect of
agriculture in levelling the soil. Several stone coffins have been
met with in the parish. To of these, enclosing a ring and part
of a sword, were found, some years ago, on ther farm of Skateraw.
There has been preserved a pretty little vase, found on another of the
farms. Some of the sepulchral relics, which have been found in such
abundance in the parish of Innerwick are probably the remains
of bloody warfare. A field near the village of Innerwick, known
by the name of the Corsikill Park, is pointed out as the scene of
an encounter between Cospatrick and Sir William Wallace.*
   There stood, at one time, on the Skateraw shore a chapel, de-
dicated to St Dennys. Remains of such an edifice were, visible
some years ago, but have now yielded to the sea. Bones, found
in the vicinity of the spot, give reason for supposing that a bury-
ing-ground was connected with the chapel. An old and time-worn
parish church was taken down about fifty years ago.
                      III.-POPULATION.
   The records of baptism seem to indicate that, in the, 17th and
earlier part of the 18th century, the parish of Innerwick was some-
what more populous than it is at present. The following is a list
of the population, at several successive periods, as given in the
Government census, and other authoritative documents:-
            Population in 1755,     -       941
                          1791,     -       960
                          1801,     -       843
                          1821,     -       924
                          1831,     -       987
At present the population may be reckoned somewhat fewer than
the last of these numbers.

<FOOTNOTE>In Henry the Minstrel's poem of Wallace, there occurs the following passage:
                  "Thus raid thai furth, and wuld na langer duell
                  Be ast to Dunbar, quhar men him tald on can
                  How eril Patrick was waryt off Wallace:
                  Ner Ennerwick chesyt a teild at waill,
                  With riyne himdreth off Ukly men to waill.
                  Four hundreth was with Wallace in the rycht,
                  And sone onon approchit to thair sicht.
                  Gret fawte thar was of gude trety betweyn,
                  To mak concord, and that full sone was seyn.
                  Without zaterss off actioun in that tid,
                  On other part to gydder fist that rid.
                  The stour was strang, and wonder peralous,
                  Contenyt lang with  dedes chivalrous;
                  Mony thar deit off cruell Scottis blud.
                  Off this trety the mater is nocht gud;
                  Tharfor I uss to tell the destructioune;
                  Pete it was, and all off a natioune.
                  Bot erll Patrick the feild left at the last,
                  Rycht few with him: to Coburnspeth thei past."


