
40                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of her attendant relative, and the other nearly succeeded in a si-
milar attempt. There were then 5 others in confinement for lu-
nacy, and nearly the same  number fatuous. There are only two
deaf mutes, and one blind at present. The number of deaths
from suicide, murder, or other violent causes within the last ten
years in the parish and vicinity seems deserving of record, as re-
markably great, amounting to no fewer than 20. Of these, 8 per-
sons committed suicide; 2 were murdered; 2 drowned; 2 lost in
snow; 1 killed by lightning; 1 killed violently without intent to
murder; 2 by machinery; and 2 by intemperance.
   Number of illegitimate births in the parish during the last three
years, 16.
   Sir George Clerk, and H. Brown, Esq. of Newball, are at this
period the only resident proprietors of considerable fortune. There
are, however, altogether nine landed proprietors whose income ex-
ceed L. 50. Before the passing of the Reform Bill, the' parish
yielded only five qualifications; there are now three old freeholders
and 77 new voters enrolled, as qualified to vote.
   Amusement.-The favourite game in this part of the country is
curling, to which the parishioners of Penicuik have long been de-
voted. In their contests with the neighbouring parishes, they have
hitherto been very successful. There is a numerous Curling Club,
whose members annually play for a silver medal given by their pa-
tron, Sir G. Clerk.*
   Character, &c. of the People.-The habits of the people are in
general cleanly, but there is not in this respect, nor as regards their
dress and style of living, any thing remarkable.
   By the following return, which may be relied on as accurate, it
is to be feared that intemperance prevails to a greater extent than
might have been expected:

Stock of spirits in hand within the parish at 5th January 1838,    1461 gallons
Brought in since and 22d March,                                     737
                                                                   ____

                          Total at 22d March 1838                  2198
Stock in hand 22d March 1838,                                      1310
                                                                   ____

Consumption during the quarter,                                     888 gallons.
Supposing the average price per gallon to be 8s. 888 gallons
comes to L. 35b, 4s., which, multiplied by 4, gives L. 1420, 16s.'
To this sum, large as it is, must be added one-fifth more for four

<FOOTNOTE>This club has presented their excellent patron with a finely mounted hunting
born, the crest of his family and their indefatigable secretary, Mr Jackson with
an elegant in-stand, in the form of a curling stone, of the value of L.12.


