
     of Tiry.

   Waters, Mills, etc.-Though there be a great number of
brooks, Tiry mills seldom can be wrought for want of water
or sufficient falls, above five or six months yearly.  This
makes it necessary, either to send our grain at a great expence
to other countries, or use querns or hand-mills.  By the low-
est calculation, the work of 50 women is yearly lost at grind-
ing.  This, with the great loss of grain, which we experience,
the loss of other labour, time, and expences, amounts yearly
to several hundred pounds Sterling.  But there is now ex-
pectation of a wind-mill*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is remarkable that at the heads of creeks and bays,
there are frequently banks formed of small round stones covered
with earth, seemingly formed by the violence of the sea, though
now far above high water mark.
   There is a plain, called the Reef, near the center of Tiry,
reckoned by travellers a very great curiosity  It is almost a
pentagon of 1200 Scotch acres, with a sandy bottom mostly co-
vered with black earth ten inches deep, a beautiful carpet va-
riegated with flowers.  It seems to have been gained from the
sea; the work of ages.  The part next the shore has received
considerable additions within the present generation.  It has
three curved green banks, each about two feet high, upon
which it appears the sea had formerly beat.  Between these
banks the ground is surprisingly plain.  The greatest height
above high water mark is about six feet, except a small green
hill near the center, nine feet higher.  The whole Reef is a
common untouched by a plough.  Upon the top of this hill,
looking backwards from under the arm, all the objects upon the
plain are seen inverted.  This plain is bounded on one tide by
Faothail, or a small channel with a meandring current, so smooth
that the motion is scarcely perceptible.  It branches towards the
head, which is within one third of a mile to the other shore.
When swelled with rain and a high spring tide, being without
a bridge, it greatly obstructs travellers.  Here there is some
danger of the island being cut in two, to prevent which bar-
ricade of stone and earth was raised on the opposite shore, in
one part; and the violent storms have raised a high bank of
round stones in another; yet the impetuous surge sometimes
baffles the whole.  There is the like danger near the west end
of Coll among the sand banks.


