
              40                          ELGINSHIRE.

          <TABLE>

                      Grain       -                                L. 17,613 0 0
                      Hay, pasture grass, turnips, and potatoes,       4,193 0 0
                                                                    ____________
                                                                   L. 21,806 0 0

                 Quarries.- The quarries which occur here are of sandstone and
              limestone.  The former are let for L. 60 of annual rent, while the
              latter average L. 27, 10s. and yield about 3500 bolls of lime sold
              at 3s. 6d. per boll (Moray barley measure.)
                Fishinfs.-There are three kinds of fishing carried on in this
              parish, viz, the salmon, the herring, and the white fisheries.  The
              first of these is acquired by stake-nets erected at the village of
              Burghead, to the proprietor of which it yields L. 100 per annum.
              The herring fishery was for many years extremely fortunate and
              profitable on this coast, but has for the last few seasons been very
              unsuccessful.  Sbell-fish are not abundant, but the supply of all the
              ordinary varieties of white fish is plentiful and excellent.  About
              eighty boats are generally congregated in autumn for the herring fishery;
              and ten boats are employed during the year at the white fishing,
              the value of which may be from L. 200 to L. 300 per annum.
               Navigation.-Burghead is the only port (since the decay of                                                                                 y
              Hopeman harbour) frequented by vessels, and it is visited by perhaps
              400 in, the course of a year.  The number of ships belonging
              to it is twelve, measuring 738 tons register, and amongst these
              are regular traders to London, Leith, Liverpool, Aberdeen, &c.

                                  V.-PAROCHIAL EcoNomy.
               Means of Communication.-This parish is distant about three
              miles (at its south border) from Elgin, the market, post, and county
              town, with which it enjoys easy communication by means of a
              turnpike road at its west, and a good commutation road at its
              east end.  A light curricle conveys the mails to the villages of
              Duffus, Hopeman, and Burghead, at each of which there are branch
              post-offices.
                 Villages-These just named, with anothercalled Port-Cumming,
              are the principal villages in the parish of Duffus.  New Duffus,
              on the estate of Sir A. Dunbar, Bart. is a remarkably neat, regular,
              and cleanly village, the prettiest, probably, in the county, except the
              beautiful and picturesque little town of Rothes.  Hopeman, on the
              coast, though regularly built, is extremely dirty, and its harbour
              has been of late allowed to go almost completely to wreck.  Port-
              Cumuning is also a straggling and dirty village.  Burghead is larger
              populous, and for the most part well kept; it possesses a good harbour,
              erected about twenty-four years ago, by subscription, to,wbich Go


