
                     GLASSARY.                          689

   The number * of proprietors having a rental above L.2000,
is one; having above L. 1000, and not L.2000, two; hav-
ing above L.500, and not L.1000, four; having above L.100, and
not L.500, six. In Lochgilphead, again, the number of proprie-
tors having an annual income from houses of L.100 and upwards,
is three; from L.50 to L.100, three; from L.20 to L.50, nine-
teen ;, from L.10 to L.20, thirty-two; under L.10, twelve.
   There are several persons in the parish, of independent tbough
not of large means.
   The style of house-building in Locbgilphead has been greatly
improved of late, but this is principally owing to the proprietor,
Alexander Campbell, Esq. of Achandaroch, who will not now give
feu or lease unless the plans are submitted to his own approval.
    Illicit distillation scarcely exists in this parish; at least it is
not brought to light.
    The character of the people varies in different districts of the
parish, which are so far separated that they have not much inter-
course together. Along the banks of Lochfyne, they are an ac-
tive hardy race, of fishermen principally, who are capable of en-
during much wet and cold; but more rude than the inhabitants of
the less frequented Lochaweside.
    We + have ever been led to question the benefit of herring-
fishing, as carried on in Locbfyne, to the community either in a
moral or economical point of view, by observing its effects upon
the babits of the people that pursue it.  Habits of excitement are
not favourable to the mind or body, and unfit men for the steady
and common avocations of life. "The almost universal + con-
nection between herring-fishing and whisky-drinking makes it ra-
ther a curse than a boon to the people', and the pursuit is so un-
certain, and partakes so much of the nature of gambling, that it
is believed, in most instances, the money is not more "hardly got"
than 'lightly gone."'
   The Gaelic language is generally spoken, but is gradually dis-
appearing.  Upon the whole, the people may be said to enjoy, in
a reasonable degree, the comforts and advantages of society,--
though truth requires it to be said, that more self-respect and
more brotherly love would greatly elevate tbem'above their present
condition.

 <FOOTNOTE>According to the assessment made for roads in March 1844, and returned by
Mr George MacCombie.
           See MS. of Statistical Account of Inverary.
           Communication by Sir John Orde, Bart.
  ARGYLE.                                                        X X


