
     Statistical Account

horse or a cow, which are fully as liable to mortality, in the
possession of a clergyman, as in other hands* 

<FOOTNOTE>

*The following observations on the state of the clergy, transmitted by Mr
Willis, tho' not immediately within the scope of this work, yet are here in-
serted, on account of their connection with the situation of so respectable
and so useful a part of the community.

   Patriots, and friends to mankind would wish to know how to ameliorate the
condition of every useful class of men in the kingdom.  With regard to the peo-
ple at large, their condition and circumstances are every day becoming more
comfortable and afluent; while those of the clergy are every day declining,
verging to poverty, and its usual concomitant, contempt.
     "Nil habet infelix pauperies durius in se,
     "Quam quod ridiculos homines facit."
   We all easily find out ways and means for the relief of the distressed, when
we ourselves are well and at our ease.  Some will say, that the clergy should
return to that plain and homely fare and clothing, which their predecessors
used at the beginning of the century.  Not to mention other answers to this
advice, even to live in that manner now, would cost double of what it did then.
The boys in Heriot's Hospital live upon the same kind of food, and have the
same kind of cloths, as they had an hundred years ago; and yet, I suppose,
it will be found, that the expence of their maintenance and clothing is now
double of what it was then.  Others will say, that the clergy should take
farms; not considering how difficult they are to be got.  Besides, where one
minister will gain by farming, nineteen in twenty, or rather 99 in 100, would
probably lose by it; as they cannot always be at the head of their labouring
servants; nor are they, in any way, a match for horse-cowpers, cow-cowpers,
brewers, and butchers, the people that farmers have to deal with.  Gentle-
men farmers are on the same footing as a clergyman would be; and sure I am,
that there are not many instances of their meeting with much success.
There are two difficulties in the way of applying for an augmentation of
stipends.  The certain and almost unlimited expence of such an application, (if
the heritors vigorously oppose the measure, as they often have done,) and the
absolute uncertainty of obtaining it, as the courts of law are vested with arbi-
trary powers to give or to refuse.  "Arbitria judicum pro legibus sunt."  If it
be said, Is not the victual, of which part of our stipends often consists, more


