
                        TOROSAY.                               291

leases, which do not exceed nine years, does not hold out a suffi-
cient inducement to them to apply much capital in this way.  If
short leases are thus unfavourable to improvements, the giving of
no leases at all is much more so.  This class having no certainty
one year that they shall be in occupation the next, endeavour to
make the most of their crofts with the least possible labour and
expense.  Hence the constant poaching of the same piece of
ground that is already brought to their hand, and the constant
application, in its pure state, of the scorching stimulant of sea-
ware to it, in order to force it to yield all its fertility in the pro-
duction of the present crop, as being possibly the last which they
shall be permitted to grow upon it, instead of manuring it proper-
ly, and giving it occasional rest, so as to insure future crops.
   Live-Stock.-The stocks of sheep are of the black-faced kind,
and much pains are taken to improve them by the annual impor-
tation of tups from the southern counties of the kingdom.  Some
farmers import, also, a certain number of ewe lambs every year,
either from stocks of high character on the mainland of Argyle-
shire, or from the south.
   The black-cattle are of the West Highland breed, and from a
lately formed Association of the gentlemen of the district for en-
couraging their improvement, much good is expected to result.
   The Mull ponies were for a long time famed for their metal.
Their superiority in this respect, it is said, had been owing to a
few entire horses of the Andalusian breed, landed from one of
the ships of the Spanish Armada, that had put into Tobermory
in distress.  Of late years, the breed has been improved in size;
but what it has gained in this respect, it has lost in point of har-
diness.
   Farm-Buildings.-On farms let to tacksmen, suitable dwelling
houses and offices have in many instances been lately built; but
the crofters, as yet, are but poorly accommodated in this respect.
With the exception of the farms in the hands of proprietors, the
instances of other farms having enclosures or subdivisions are very
rare.
   Fisheries.-The various kinds of these carried on are for salmon,
cod, ling, herrings, and mackerel.  The salmon fisheries are let
at a rent of L.55 for the season.
   Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
raised inthe parish annually, as can be ascertained, may
be thus stated:-


