
400                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

sequence is, that nearly the whole of his valuable property in this
parish is now well fenced.
   The other proprietors in the parish soon followed the example,
and gave liberal encouragement to their tenants in regard to en-
closing and building houses.

<TABLE>
The number of acres, standard imperial measure, in this parish, which have been cul-
tivated or occasionally in tillage is     -         -           -         -     3920
              susceptible of improvement,             -        -        -        200
              in roads, houses, &c.       -       -        -              -      280
                                                                                ----
                                             Total acres,           -           4400

   The commons were divided about twenty-five years ago.
   Planting.-The parish is very destitute of wood, having only
about eighteen acres of planting, chiefly belonging to Sir John
S. Forbes.  The late Sir William planted most of it.  Ash,
elm, and larch seem to be the only wood congenial to this soil
and climate.  The first great difficulty in rearing of wood in
this part of Buchan, is to get a barrier against the prevailing north-
erly gales, which have a blighting, withering influence; that diffi-
culty once overcome, neither the climate nor soil seems to be ad-
verse to the growth of hard-wood.
   Of the eighteen acres of planting alluded to, eight only are
worthy of notice, the other eight being scattered, neglected, and
exposed to the storms.  The eight thriving acres are in one en-
closure, not far from the church, and every attention is paid yearly
to thinning, pruning, &c.
   Rent.-The average rent of the arable land is about 19s. 6d.
per acre ; while the pasture or unimproved land is scarcely worth
any thing in its present state, which can only be reclaimed by
draining and trenching, at an expense of not less than from L.8
to L.12 per acre.
   The great obstacles to the improvement of low-lying land is the
want of leading water runs, particularly in marshes, or wherever there
is a strong current ; an improvement which ought to be effected at
the proprietor's expense.  It would enable the farmer to drain and
prevent damage from inundation.
   Wages.-The winter wages of good ploughmen are from L.5
to L.6, 10s.; foremen and very superior servants realize a little
more ; boys and other supernumeraries, from L.1, 10s. to L.4.
In the summer half-year, men's wages generally advance from
5s. to 10s, and again retrograde in the winter half-year.  Wo-
men's wages range from L.2 to L.3 in the summer half-year,
and from L.1, 10s. to L.2 in the winter half-year, according
                         3


