
                         KEMNAY.                            819

All are of the Established religion, excepting a few Dissenters,
chiefly Independents, to which connection the principal landhold-
er and his family belong.

                    IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Scarcely any farinaceous grain, besides oats and
bigg, is sown in the parish; very few pease, and very little wheat.
Every farmer and cottager has a certain extent of his land, pro-
portioned to his holding, in turnips and potatoes, every year,
which are succeeded, next season, by bear or oats, with rye-grass
and clover.  The most common rotation is the Berwickshire, but
it begins to be thought too exhausting for our light soil; and al-
though some of the landholders of the county bind their tenants
to this rotation, others prefer a six or a seven years' shift, the for-
mer including two, and the latter three white crops.  The gene-
ral duration of leases is nineteen years.

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is not exactly in the
centre of the parish, but its site is nearly as convenient for the
parishioners as it could be.  It is not above three miles from the
most distant house in the parish, and the greater part of the po-
pulation is within a mile and a-half from it.  It was built, as ap-
pears from an inscription on the belfry, in 1632.  It was pro-
bably erected on the site of one of the tituli, which, in Roman
Catholic times, depended on the parsonage of Kinkell, to which
the parish of Kemnay belonged in the beginning of the fifteenth
century.  It was repaired in 1794, but is, at present, in a very
insufficient state.  Owing to the thickness of the walls, and the
smallness of all the windows save two, it is not well lighted.  It
cannot be sufficiently ventilated, for the floor is from three to
four feet below the level of the burying-ground, which is highest
at the front wall of the building.  It is consequently damp.  It
affords accommodation to nearly 500 sitters.  Almost all the
farmers and crofters have free sittings on the ground floor.  The
seats on the site of the communion table, and those of two galle-
ries, belong to the kirk-session, as administrators for the poor, out
of whose funds they were built, and for them the session draws
annually, at 6d. each, nearly L.4.
   The present manse was built in 1796, and succeeded a manse
which, in 1680, was built at the sole expense of the then minister,
and was, with great propriety, denominated Castle Folly.  Ar-
rangements have been concluded for repairing the present build-


