
     Statistical Account

   The large coal sent to sea is sold at the shore, from 8 s. 6 d.
to 9 s. per chalder, of 30 cwt.  The smaller coals, which are
called chaws, are sold on the coal-hill, for 13 d. per cart + of
6 cwt.-The coal of the barony of Alloa is thought to be the
farthest west of any coal north of the Forth.-The colliers
prefer working in the night time; some go into the pits be-
tween 8 and 9, and others again later.  Those who are anxious,
on any particular occasion, to draw a large sum on the Satur-
day, continue a very long time at their work:  The usual time
is from 10 to 12 hours.  The men are, in general, rather of
a low stature, though there are some of them 6 feet.  Many
of the young women are pretty.  On Sundays and holidays,
both men and women are clean and neatly dressed.  They eat

<FOOTNOTE>

gons, when standing still, are close to one another, and the chains that link
them together are 2 feet long, the horse has only 30 cwt. of coals to put in mo-
tion; for, when he starts the first waggon, the impetus of it, if it does not ac-
tually move, at least greatly assists in moving the second and third.  The first
expence of making tins kind of waggon way, is undoubtedly great, being at
least 10 s. per running yard; yet the proprietor has been long ago reimbursed,
and is a considerable gainer; for although this road has been made there 6 years,
it has required no repair worth mentioning, and it is now near as good as when
first laid.
   +About 35 years ago, this kind of coal was sold for 6 d.  The price has
risen gradually as the demand has increased.  The consumption of coal in Scotland
is considerably greater than formerly; which is probably owing, in some measure,
to the improvements of agriculture, etc. the country people having learnt to
estimate the value of their time; and, by calculating how much is consumed in
making peats, they find, that coals, though brought from a great distance,
is a cheaper, as well as a pleasanter fuel.-The effect that any extraordinary dis-
tress in the country has, on the sale of coal, is very evident.  On the shock that
credit received, by the great failures in 1772, the sale of coals, at this port, dimi-
nished one third; and it was 4 years before the usual demand took place:  And
the consequences of the miserable crop in 1752, were felt, pretty nearly in the
same manner, in 1783.


