
48                          RENFREWSHIRE.

     derable number of acres of planting an the moss on the south side
     of the Gryfe, were by accident set on fire; the wind being from
     the east, the fire raged, and the flames rose to a great height. In
     some parts the progrdss of the fire was arrested by a number of
     men cutting large trenches in the moss. To leave large avenues un-
     planted in modern plantations might, perhaps, prevent the spread-
     ing of fire. Proprietors of land may also, perhaps, find it their in-
     terest, when planting on high and exposed situations, to plant the
     pinaster or maritime pine along ihe skirts of their plantations, as
     an excellent defence against the storm; but it requires to be trans-
     planted in the ntrsery, its tap-root shortened, and to stand eighteen
     months more in a nursery of rich ground. The Earl of Galloway,
     by following this plan, has obtained thriving plantations on every
     exposure; and in the west of Scotland Scotch firs planted on the
     south-west of the other trees are a great defence from our most
     frequent storms.

                   II-CIVIL HISTORY

        Land-owners.- The chief land-owners are, Archibald Spiers,
     Esq. of Eldersly, non-resident; William M. Fleming, Esq. of Ba-
     rochan, resident; Williath M. Alexander, Esq. of Southbar, non-
     resident; William Cunningham, Esq. of Craigends, non-resi
     dent.

        Family of F7eming of Barochan.-Barochan is a very ancient
     family- Peter Flexning of Barochan * and six of his sons fell in
     the fatal field of Flowden.  Mr Fleming left a seventh son, who
     succeeded him.  This same Peter Fldming was a celebrated fal-
     coner. His tersel beat the falcon of James IV., upon which the
     Kine unhooded his favourite hawk, and put the hood on the ter-
     sel, The hood was richly ornamented with precious stones. Most
     of them were stolen many years ago. One ruby remained of great
     rallied; but about thirteen years ago, it fell out, and, not being
     missed at the time, it was lost. A few seed pearls only remain.
     There is still at Baroclham pair Of silver spurs which belonged
     to the time Peter Fleming.  Barochan cross was described in
     the former Statistical Account. Its history is still obscure.
     But antiquarians may perhaps he enabled to throw some light on
     its original,  by examining these fine stenographic figures of it
     which were lately furnished to the writer of this Account b W.

      <FOOTNOTE>The land of Barochan had probably two proper names, and this may account for
     his befug demonilated William in the account given his death, in the former  Sta
     statistical Account.


