
                       ABBOTSHALL.                            159

thus render them more useful to the communities to which they be-
longed. It is managed by a committee of directors; and some of
the leading members belong to this place.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Villages.-The principal town or village in the parish is what is
called the Linktown, which is situated on the west side of the bay of
Kirkaldy, from which it is only separated by the intervening beach.
The Linktown has only one street, which is about three quarters
of a mile long, and forms a continuation on the west to the principal
street of the town of Kirkaldy. It is a burgh of regality, and go-
verned by a baron-bailie, appointed by Mr Ferguson of Raith, who
is superior of the whole.
  The street and the lanes of Linktown are narrow, and the
original houses are mostly low and uncomfortable. Many of the
houses, however, have been rebuilt, and many new ones erected;
all of them, in point of convenience and accommodation, far exceed-
ing the old ones.  Some of the principal manufacturers in the pa,
rish reside in Linktown, and, according to their success in business,
it must prosper or decline. About the centre of the town, and at a
proper distance from the street, stands the mansion-house of John
Pratt, Esq. of Glentarkie, surrounded with its fine garden and shrub,
beries, and which is at once a credit and an ornament to the place.
There are a few very good shops in this part of the parish, and
more of an inferior description, which supply the inhabitants with
the necessaries and conveniences of life. Two annual fairs of old
standing are still held here, one on the third Friday of April, and
the other on the third Friday of October. The spring fair was
formerly principally kept up by the sale of lintseed and the autumn
fair, by the sale of black-cattle. Both fairs are now on the decline,
and the principal commodity at each of them is shoes, which are
frequently brought from a considerable distance, and sold at very-
low prices. In the Linktown, there is a jail or rather lock-up-house,
to which the baron bailie has the power of consigning offenders. It
is in bad repair and little used.
  The flourishing condition of trade and consequent increase of
inhabitants induced the late Mr Ferguson of Raith, about the year
1790, to feu property for building on a regular plan a street run-
ning nearly at right angles with the east end of Linktown, in the di-
rection of the parish church. This line of building, which has never
been completed, is known by the name of the New Town, and
contains about 780 inhabitants, of whorn, with the exception of a


