
                           BELHELVIE.                      241

improvements.  Another reason is, that these mortified lands are
alike liable, with the other lands in the parish, to all public burdens
and assessments, and have to pay a certain feu-duty to the town
of Aberdeen.  It is thus difficult to state what may he the ave-
rage amount of stipend, as it varies from year to year.
   The heritors pay the usual allowance for communion elements,
and a trifle in name of stipend, as part of the unexhausted teinds.
   There are only a few Dissenters in the parish, and two small
families of the Popish persuasion.
   Education.-There is one parochial school, to which is attach-
ed a salary of L.33, 7s. 6d.  There is an excellent school-house,
and superior accommodation for the scholars; and all the branches
of education are taught which are required in any country school.
  The teacher's fees may amount to L.25 per annum.
There are other two schools in the parish, built by subscription,
but they are unendowed, and the teachers, having no salary, are de-
pendent on the school fees.
   Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
is 52; the average sum allotted to each per quarter, 10s.; the
average annual, amount of contributions for the poor,is L.104,-
whereof L.40 is from church collections, and L.64 from alms or
legacies.

   January 1840.

                      PARISH OF BELHELVIE.

             PRESBYTERY OF ABERDEEN, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

               THE REV. A. FORSYTH, LL.D. MINISTER,

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of this parish is said to signify in Gaelic
the mouths of the rivulets; and, accordingly there are seven small
rivulets that rise within the bounds of the parish.
   Extent, Boundaries.-This parish is nearly a right-angled pa-
rallelogram, 6 miles long, by 5 miles broad, and contains 30 square
miles.  The church is eight miles north from Aberdeen; the
south extremity four miles, and the north extremity ten miles
from Aberdeen.
   It is bounded on the south by the parish of Old Machar; on
   ABERDEEN                              Q


