
                                    CRIEFF                          521

ing schools; and a Tuesday evening class, for the religious in-
struction of grown up young men and young women.
   The Sabbath evening schools have been in operation for a con-
siderable number of years, and they have doubtless been a great
blessing to the parish. Crieff has enjoyed the benefit of having
one or more of them for nearly half-a-century. And they are in
general well attended, though the numbers have varied according
to circumstances. Tha parochial schoolmaster has the maximum
salary of L. 34, 4s, 4 1/2d. per annum, and the full amount of ac-
commodation allowed by law. The other teachers have nothing
but their school fees to depend upon.
   We have not been able to ascertain the exact numbers of those
who cannot read or write. There are various circumstances which
combine to render the inquiry a difficult one; but the nearest ap-
proximation which the members of session have been able to make
is as follows: viz. between the six and fifteen years of age, who can-
not reaf, 18; between ten and fifteen years of age who cannot
write, 29; above fifteen years of age who cannot read, 41.
   The people in general are much alive to the benefit of educa-
tion, and there are few who do not contrive to send their children
to school, during a longer or a shorter period. But meny of them
are not able to keep them there a sufficient time; others are un-
able to pay the fees for those whom they do send; and the con-
sequences is, that the teachers, who are ill able to afford it, are losers
to a considerable amount. Tha managers of the Sabbath even-
ing schools were in the habit some years ago, of sending a number
of poor children to the week-day schools; but they soon found
themselves involved in such pecuniary difficulties, that they were
reluctantly compelled to relinguish the practice, and some bene-
volent private individuals are still pursuing the same course; but
there are many whom private benevolence cannot reach, and who
are in consequence greatly behind in the attainment of that know-
ledge which it is so desirable that all should possess, and which has
for so long been the glory of our Scottish peasantry.
   Morison's Bequent.-The late Mr Thomas Morison, builder
in Edinburgh, who died upwards of eleven years ago, left the bulk
of his property (which was very considerable) for the purpose of
erecting and endowing an academy, where the higher branches of
education might be taught. There is a preference given in Mr

<FOOTNOTE>This class has lately been changed to the Sabbath evening. It meets after the
Sabbath evening schools have been dismissed.


