
			MONIFIETH.                       549

two considerable ones called Cadgerton and Fyntrack, (modern-
ized into Fintry,) not a vestige of either of which now remains.
About 1750, again, the average of yearly birth had increased to
37; but the population had again decreased considerably at the
time of the publicatinn of the former Account.

<TABLE>

It amounted in 1755 to  1421-(Dr Webster's Report.)
            in 1794     1218-(Sir J. Sinclair's Account.)
            in 1821     2017
            in 1831     2636
            in 1841     3461

	The rapid increase during late years is doubtless owing to the
recent springing into existence of the village of Broughty Ferry,
and to the extention into the country of the trade of Dundee; and
from both causes it may be inferred, that the increase will still
proceed in a large ratio. For, in addition to the public works
which have of late been set in operation, others have been con-
templated should trade revive; while the railroad from Dundee
to Arbroath, which passes through the whole breadth of the pa-
rish, promises to increase the traffic of the district, and the num-
ber of houses along the line. Indeed, Lord Panmure has begun
to grant ninety-nine years building leases on the links of Barn-
hill, which begin already to increase the population. And, should
commerce improve, doubtless many of the citizens of Dundee will
be glad exchage the smoke and bustle of the town for the
freshness and retirement of a county villa, from which the rail-
road will transport them at almost every hour, to thier business
and counting-rooms in fifteen minutes. The situation, the cli-
mate, the abundancd nf excellent springs, the comparative cheap-
ness of the soil, and the many facilities of the locality, conspire
to render almost certain the anticipation, that a large and respec-
table population will soon be set down on what is at present only
a sheep-walk and a rabbit-warren.
	The population is at present thus divided; in Broughty Ferry,
1980; in Monifieth, 250; Drumsturdy, 190; in the coun-
try,1041.
	Average births per annum, 75; average marriages per do. 27.
	On the whole, the inhabitants are a moral and industrious
people; and, though in instances the public works have in-
troduced their attendant evils of profligacy and drunkenness, the
contagious example has not spread among the rest of the parish-
ioners. Few have come to years without an ordinary education;
intellectual attainment is obviously prized and advancing. The


