
<APPENDIX>

xxxix

   The information, which will be accumulated in this great work, will,
it is believed, be found infinitely superior, to that contained in any other
publication, of a political or statistical nature.  Indeed, what else could be
expected, from the united exertions of above THOUSAND individuals of
intelligence and ability, who, in a greater or lesser degree, will contriubte
to its formation? I am induced, from that circumstance, to suggest, that it
might not be improper for the Ministers, the Elders, and the principal
Heads of Families, to join together, in purchasing, for each Parish, a copy
of the different Volumes, as they come out.  To any mind capable of re-
ceiving useful information, no literary performance can furnish so much
entertainment.  Nor is there any, that will yield more important hints-
for the improvement of agriculture-for the extension of commercial in-
dustry-for regulating the conduct of individuals.-or for promoting the
prosperity of the State. The peculiar form of this Work, also, admirably
adapts it for parochial circulation; and were this idea carried into full-
effect, there is every reason to believe, that it would materially contribute,
to further the most essential interests of the community.-This is a point,
therefore, which may deserve to be brought under consideration, at any en-
suing meeting, of the Presbytery, or the Synod, to which you belong.
   I have now only to regret the repeated trouble you received, in
the course of this correspondence; but I trust, that you will impute it to
the real cause,-an ardent wish to promote, so far as I am able, the happi-
ness of my native country; and, what is of much more consequence, than
the exertions of any single individual, to furnish a numerous and respectable
body of my fellow citizens, with an opportunity of proving, to the convic-
tion of the world, their patriotism and abilities.  I have the honour to be,
with great regard and esteem, Sir, your very obedient humble servant,
     JOHN SINCLAIR.

   EDINBURGH,
   Dec. 5, 1791.
   N. B. Packets of the legal weight, (or under two ounces), may be ad-
   dressed to Sir John Sinclair, Bart. M. P. Edinburgh.

   Either answers to the original Queries, or an arranged Parochial Ac-
count, may be sent, as is most convenient and agreeable.
   It may be remarked, in general, that the great object of the Inquiry is,
to know the present state of the country, and to ascertain what means are
the most likely to promote the real interests of its inhabitants, and, that
deep researches, into subjects of antiquity, are far from being considered as
equally essential, though certainly not to be overlooked.


