
                 NORTHMAVING.                             73

an indispensable article of dress. Rheumatism and asthma are
very common complaints among the people; but perhaps these
may be attributed as much to the low, miserable, and uncomfort-
able dwellings in which they live, as to the dampness of the cli-
mate. Fever of a very infectious nature sometimes occurs; but
it is commonly confined to two or three families in the same
neighbourhood, as no intercourse whatever takes place with per-
sons so affected, and thus they sometimes die a miserable death
for want of cleanliness, proper treatment, and medical attendance.
Pulmonary complaints are also to be met with, but are not com-
mon. That the climate is, by no means, injurious to health,
may be inferred from the fact, that, in 1831, there were
thirty-nine persons in this parish, and chiefly women, upwards of
eighty years of age. Some of them were above ninety years, and
one woman died lately said to have been all hundred years old.
   Hydrography.-This parish is nearly surrounded by the sea,
and voes run into the interior, almost in every direction. Many
excellent springs are to be found. Very near to the top of Rona's
Hill, there are several powerful springs, which send forth an im-
mense quantity of water, in a short space of time. And as these
springs are more elevated than the tops of the highest bills in
these islands, where must their source or origin be ? No medi-
cinal springs, I believe, have hitherto been found. Lochs or
lakes, some of considerable extent and depth, are very numerous
in this parish, amounting, it has been said, to upwards of an hun-
dred, and many of them abounding with most excellent trout.
   Geology.-The direction of the strata of rocks, in this parish, is
from east to west ; aod innumerable are the veios or dikes and fis-
sures that cut across the strata, and more or less derange and alter
theis original position. The mountaios and bills are chiefly com-
posed of granite, syenite, syenitic greenstone, gneiss, diallage rock,
porphyry, &c. Old red sandstone aod limestone, of a coasse descrip
tion, are also to be found in differeot parts of the parish. No fos-
sil organic remaios, or petrigactions, whether belonging to the ani-
mal or vegetable kiogdom, have ever been found, that I hawe
heard of ; neither ase there any ores contaioing copper, lead,
&c. Chromate of iron has beeo found in certain situations, but
not of the best quality; also Scotch pebbles or agates, and garnets.
   Peat moss, for the most part, is the only soil that covers the
solid rocks referred to above, Along the shore, io fawoured spots,
the-soil is of a light and sandy description, which io good seasons


