
  		       AUCHTERDERRAN.                          165

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   It is obvious to the most cursory observer, that since the last
Statistical Account was published, this parish has made great pro-
gress in agriculture, commerce, and all those various improvements
connected with them. The consequence is, that wealth is much
more generally diffused, and all classes enjoy in a greater degree
than formerly the comforts and conveniences of life. What must
ever be best calculated to promote the happiness of the labouring
classes is, to improve their morals, and to found their virtue on its
true basis, religion, not on metaphysical speculation, or the nice
formed theories of state policy, but on the grand, solid, and substan-
tial principles of Christianity. This will be found in the end not
only the best means of promoting the individual happiness of the
people, but the true secret of good government,-the surest bulwark
of the state.

   Revised April 1836.

   P.S.-Even since the above was  written, it is necessary to state
that the parish has undergone many important alterations. Trade
has increased considerably, and so has the population. The num-
ber of poor has in consequence increased, and of course the expen-
diture in behalf of the poor. The congregation which met in the
Place of worship formerly belonging to the Cameronians is now dis-
persed, and the house converted into a warehouse for flax. A new
church in connection with the Establishment is in the course of
erection, to supply the surplus population of this and the neigh-
bouring parish of Kinghorn.


                     PARISH OF AUCHTERDERRAN.

               PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

	      THE REV. ANDREW MURRAY, D. D. MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Boundaries-Extent.-This parish is of anirregular form, about
5 miles long and 3 broad. It is bounded by Auchtertool on the
south; Abbotshall on the south-east; Dysart on the east and south;
Kinglassie and Portmoak on the north; and Ballingry on the west.


