
                      ABERNETHY.                            845

small figure of a bull, deer, or such other animal.  Legend,
"In domo Dei ambulavimus concecu,"-words which are taken
from the vulgate Latin of the 55th Psalm, verse 14, a c being
erroneously substituted in the place of s in the penult syllable.  It
is remarkable that the matrix for making casts of this seal was
found so late as 1789, and so far from home as Eniskillen, in the
county of Fermanagh, in Ireland.  It is of brass, and, at the pe-
riod when the last Statistical Account was published, was in the
possession of the Honourable Mrs Drurnmond of Perth; Whe-
ther it be still preserved by her successors, the. writer has not
been able to ascertain.
   In 1531, in a rental of churches of the Abbeyaf Arbroath,
the church of Abernethy is stated at 293 lib. 6s. 8d.
   In 1560, at the time of the Reformation, the valuation of the
kirk of Abernethy is said to be 273 lib., a sum which is somewhat
smaller numerically than that stated in the rental of 1531, and
much smaller in actual value when the diminished weight of the
coin is considered.   After the Reformation, the church of Aber-
netby seems to have come under the denomination or a parsonage,
like, perhaps, several other vicarages for the bond by which
they were connected with bisbopricks, abbeys, and other religious
establishments, was then dissolved. The rental of the provostry
at the time of the Reformation was as follows :-Money, Is lib.
13s. 4d.; bear, 2 ebal. 9 bolls, I firlot, I peck;.  Meal, 5 chal.
2 bolls, 3 firlots.
   Of the events in the department of civil history connected with
Abernethy, few have been handed down. Fordun, Winton, and
the English historians tell us that, in 1072, when William the
Conqueror invaded Scotland, Malcolm. Canmore did homage.(pro,
bably for his English possessions) ai Abernethy.
   Goodal, in his introduction to Fordun's History, says the
place was on the river Nith, in the snuth of ScotlAbd; and his
opinion is generally approved by subsequent Scottish historians.
But the harangue of an English general, before the battle of the
Standard, in the following century, implies that William had
passed through several provinces before Malcolm made his sub-
mission; and David M'Pherson, the editor of Winton, supposes
that the Enalish army advanced as far as Stratberne.  Winton's
language is:-

           " Ae thousand twa and seventy year,
             William Bastard, with his powate,
            In Scotland came, and wasted syne,
            And rode throught till Abernethyn."


