
			LEITH.					779

administration, arising from a grant of certain lands, and the right
of levying certain duties which appertained to the "hospital," or
"mansion of St. Anthony." The object of the Charity is to give
relief to the widows and poor of the trades' corporations.
   North Leith Parish.-We first hear of North Leith in 1493
when Robert Ballantyne, Abbot of Holyrood, resolved to build a
chapel for the accommodation of the increasing inhabitants of this
district. A church was built at the north end of the bridge across
the Water of Leith, and dedicated to St Ninian, the patron saint
of Galloway. The charter of foundation was confirmed by James
IV. in 1493. At the Reformation the inhabitants of North Leith
purchased the chapel of St Ninian's, the chaplain's house, and the
tithes of certain lands and houses, and of the fish brought into the
harbour, as a maintenance for their minister. North Leith was
erected into a parish by Act of Parliament in 1609. The pa-
rishioners are the patrons, and the funds and management are
vested in the kirk-session. The population in 1841 was 8492.
   The stipend was at first 800 merks; in 1666 it was augmented
out of St Cuthbert's parish funds, to 1200 merks, with parsonage
and glebe of four acres. The old church was abandoned and a
new one erected in 1814. The new edifice is a large building in
the Grecian style, with a portico and spire, the latter ornamented
with several ranges of Doric and Ionic Columns, and 158 feet in
height. This church cost L. 12,000, and is capable of accommo-
dating 1768 persons.
   The stipend arising from feus of property was in 1832, L.611,
17s.; in 1833, L. 540, 11s. 4d.; in 1834, L. 500, 9s. This in-
cludes an allowance of L.60 for a manse.
   St Thomas' Church is situated on the eminence called Sheriff
Brae, and was built and endowed by John Gladstone, Esq. of
Fasque, a native of Leith.
   There are four congregations connected with the Free Church,
viz. St John's, South Leith; Mariners' Church; Nehaven Church;
North Leith Free Church.
   There are also three chapels belonging to the United Associ-
ate Synod, one in North Leith and one in Kirkgate,and a third
in the Links. One Relief Chapel, an Episcoplian Chapel, and
an Independent.
   Schools.-At an early period, a school was endowed with funds
which came into the possession of the kirk session of South Leith,
and two masters with salaries were appointed. An old building




