
38				KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

ham, a dwelling, has been Added. If this etymology can be relied
on, the name is sufficiently desscriptive of the situation of the church
of Twynholm.
	The time when the parishes of Kirkchrist and Twynholm were
united, is uncertain. It is known, however, that the union took
place in the course of the seventeenth century. Kirkchrist was a
separate parish in 1605. In Blaeu's Atlas, published in 1654
Kirkchrist has the symbol of a church put to it, as if it had
still been the church of separate parish. But, in 1684 when
Symson wrote his account of Galloway, the church of Kirkchrist
had been long in ruins. From these circumstances, it is probable
that the union of the parisbes took place soon after 1654,--the
time when Blaeu's Atlas was published.
	Extent.--The parish of Twynholm, as now constituted, is about
ten miles long, by nearly three broad, where the length and
breadth are the greatest. Its figure is a sort of oblong, widest at
the centre, and tapering towards the northern and southern ex-
tremities, till it ends almost in a point. It is understood to contain
about 16.7 square miles.
	Boundaries.--It is bounded on the north by the parishes of
Girthon and Balmaghie; on the east, by Tongland and the river
Dee, which separates it from the parish of Kirkcudbright; and
on the south and west, by Borgue.
	Topographical Appearances.--In the northern part of Twyn-
holm the bills rise to a considerable height, and consequently some
of the lands in that part of the parish are incapable of cultivation,
and used solely for the pasture of sheep and black-cattle; but in
the southern part, where it approaches the Dee, there is to be
found excellent land, both for cropping and pasturage. Like most
of the land in this part of the kingdom, the surface is very irregular,
and even in the richest cropping districts, knolls rise up in the
middle of the corn fields, and the rocks protrude to the very sur-
face of the ground. The whole parish appears to rest upon a bed
of whinstone. We have no sandstone, and granite occurs only in
the shape of large boulders; which, however, are to be found in
great abundance in many place.
	Rivers.--The only rivers worth mentioning are the Dee, and
its tributary, the Tarff, forming part of the eastern boundary of the
parish; but he account of these rivers will more naturally belong
to some of the neighbouring parishes. There is, however,
abundance of water throughout the whole of Twynholm, supplied
by a number of small streams that fall into these two rivers.


