
	236                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

           Extent-Boundaries.-Contin is 33 Miles long, by measure-
        ment of the Parliamentary road that passes through it; and the
	breadth is believed to be little short of the length. Thus, as re-
	gards extent of surface, it ranks among the largest parishes in Scot-
	land. It is bounded on the west by Gairloch and Lochcarron; on
	the south by Kilmorack and Urray; on the east by Urray and
	Fodderty; and on the north by Lochbroom. The general aspect
	of the parish is mountainous; and the atmosphere is generally mild
	and dry.
	   Hydrography.-The parish is abundantly supplied with peren-
	nial springs of the most wholesome water. On the estate of Hil-
	ton, there are several strongly impregnated with iron.
	   Lakes are numerous. Those of sufficient importance to be here
        named, are Loch Chroisg, supposed to be 5 miles long, and 1
        broad; Loch Fannicb, 12 miles in length, and 1 in breadth; Loch
	Luichart, 6 miles long, and generally half a mile broad; Loch
        Killin, 2 miles long, and about 1 mile in breadth. In each of
	these, the water is mossy, and of a mild temperature.
	   There are likewise the smaller lakes of Achilty and Kinellan,
	which deserve to be noticed separately. The former is about 2
	miles in circumference, and abounds in trout and char. The wa-
	ter is unusually pure, and very rarely freezes. The scenery all
	around this lake is highly picturesque. It is remarkable that a
	rivulet from an adjoining little lake forms the only visible ingress,
	while there is no egress that can be seen, although it is believed
	there is a subterraneous communication from it to the river Rasay,
	which runs within one mile to the north-east.
	   Loch Kinellan is also a pleasing object, with its pretty little
	island, (for many years a garden;) and the fine arable fields on
	one side contrast strikingly with the wilder scenery on the other.
	There is here a very distinct echo.
	   The principal rivers are,-the Connon, which has its origin in
	Loch Chroisg, in the western extremity of the parish, and is fed
        by tributary streams in its progress to the sea :-Meig, which ori-
	ginates in Glenigag, the most distant point of Contin to the west,
	and receives similar supplies until it joins the Connon at Little
        Seatnell;-Rasay, or Black Water, whose source is in Strath-
	Vaich, on the confines of Lochbroom, and which runs parallel to the
	other two, until the three waters unite at Moy, and form one river,
	the Connon, which discharges itself into Crornarty Frith, within a
	few miles from the town of Dingwall.


