
     Of Coldingham.

valley, having a small rivulet of excellent water running
upon each side of it, and is about a mile distant from the sea.
It is surrounded with rising fields of gentle ascent, all of ex-
cellent quality; but there are no prospects from the town be-
yond half a mile's distance.  It appears from old writings,
and by parts of the foundations of old buildings, that several
of the crofts about the town, now arable, had been anciently
the sites of houses and gardens. It must, therefore, have been
much more populous than it is at present*.  Before the com-
mon moor was divided, this town was dull and unpleasant, in
appearance, as all the houses were covered with turfs and
divots from that moor.  All the inhabitants were averse to
the division, because they foresaw, that this servitude, and
that of the peats and turfs for fuel, would be much con-

<FOOTNOTE>

and at present known by the same names; as also, the lands of Swinton, and 24
beasts for tilling them; and likewise the lands of Paxton, Fishwick, and all the
lands adjoining to the latter, lying between Harnden and Knabton, places of
great extent and value on the banks of the river Tweed, and still called by the
same names; and that he also gave to this church, the same privileges which
were at that time possessed by Holy Island and Norham, viz. 37 days to all who
fled thither, and half a merk of silver to the Monks of Coldingham from every
plough in Coldingham shore, for which the possessors of these lands voluntarily
submitted and engaged for its punctual payment.
*The prior resided here with all his train and dependents; and the church
and other buildings about it were extensive and magnificent, but are all now in
complete ruins, except the present kirk, which is dark within, and shabby with-
out.  The revenue of this priory must have been very considerable; for, besides
the temporal lands which belonged to it, they had right to the drawn teinds of
13 parishes.  After the general annexation, this priory was erected into a tem-
poral lordship in favour of John Stuart, a natural son or grandson of K.
James the 5th.  It seems he had sold a great part of the lands and teinds, and
the remainder were carried off by the Earls of Home, by decreets of apprising
and other legal diligences.  They have been long in possession, and partly by
voluntary, and partly in consequence of decreets of valuation and sale, have
sold the subjects adjudged, at least the far greatest part of them, but have still
right to the feu-duties of a great number of feuars and heritors.


