
              GLENMUICK, TULLICH, AND GLENGAIRN.            777

ironstone are also very common.  No fossil organic remains,
either of the animal or vegetable kingdoms, have yet been disco-
vered; nor of alluvial deposites can anything interesting be men-
tioned.  The soil is generally shallow, dry, sandy, or gravelly
some of it is loamy, and contains boulders of ironstone, gneiss,
or granite; little of it is clayey, and none of it marly.  There is
no indication of pit-coal, nor have mines been opened of any de-
scription.
   Zoology.-One species of animal, that of rabbits, which formerly
was never seen here except in warrens, has now overspread the
country, and is more destructive to turnips and other vegetables
than even hares.  It may also be mentioned, as a rare occurrence,
that a number of white rats have lately made their appearance.
   The fishes in the takes and rivers are, pike, eels, par, trouts,
and salmon.  Salmon come up the rivers to spawn in October
and November, and return to the sea in January and the two fol-
lowing months.  One species of them, called canavegs, from the
smallness of the head, come up later, and do not return till April
and May.
   Botany.-The rarer species of plants are what are terined al-
pine, and are found chiefly on the highest mountains and bills;
but they are seldom or never used for medicinal, or any other pur-
poses.  The forests consist of Scotch fir; the plantations of Scotch
fir, interspersed with larch, pine, mountain-ash, and some other
varieties.  Birch, oak, aspen, and hazel, grow spontaneously on
dry, gravelly, and sandy soils; aller on marsliy soils, and along
the banks of rivers.  The soil is not favourable to the more va-
luable kinds of timber, such as plane, elm, ash.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The chief and only land-owners are, the Marquis
of Huntly; Mrs Farquharson of Invercauld; Michael Gordon, Esq.
of Abergeldie ; and the Representatives of the late William Farqu-
harson, Esq. of Monaltrie; and their respective valued rents, ac-
cording to the order in which they here stand, are L.967, 3s. 4d.;
L.1503, 7s. 7d.; L.507, 5s. 9d.; and L. 407, amountidg to
L.3384, 16s. 8d.  Scotch money for the three parishes.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are very defec-
tive, and not voluminous.  During the incumbency of Mr John
Ferguson, the earliest minister hero on record, the cash and dis-
cipline register begins 23d June 1661, and ends 6th January
1677: then it begins again at the admission of his successor, Mr


