
              ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                         355

tion, however trivial ; who, again, think that the efficacy will be
completely taken away by the presence, at the same table with
them, even of one unconverted person,-and being very uncharita-
ble in forming an estimate of the character of those whose opinions
differ in any respect from their own, they are remarkably scru-
pulous as to those with whom they will partake. Through the in-
fluence of these men (among whom there are some lay-preachers),
aided by others who ought to have known better, the majority of
the people have been brought to regard the sacraments, especially
that of the Lord's Supper, with a degree of horror which causes
almost all of them to avoid partaking of it. Thus there are nearly
200 children in the parish unbaptized, and the table of the Lord
is unfrequented. It has, to a certain extent, become a proof of
piety to avoid partaking of the sacraments; and it is much to be
feared that, when Christ's commands in regard to one subject have
come to be set aside for the opinions of men, His commands in re-
gard to others will, in process of time, be treated with equal dis-
regard. Yet the unscriptural notions under consideration are daily
gaining ground in the place.
     There have been. L.64 contributed in the parish this vear for
religious and educational purposes.
     Education.-There are ten schools in the parish,-one paro-
chial; five supported by the Assembly's Education Committee;
three by the Gaelic School Society; one by an Episcopalian So-
ciety; and one umendowed. Gaelic alone is taught in the three
schools supported by the Gaelic School Society. In all the others
English and arithmetic are taught. The salaries of the school-
masters do itot average more than L.23 per annum. The school
fees everywhere except in the parochial school, where they amount
to about L.8 a-year, are merely nominal, or very nearly so, not
averaging L.1 in each school. The fees charged in the parish
school range from 8s. to 12s.in the year, according to the branches
taught. One-third of the children between six and fifteen years
are unable to read, and of the grown-up population there are two-
thirds in the same condition.
    The people, in general, are very indifferent regarding education,
and keep their children from school for very trifling reasons. They
are so very apathetic on this subject, that it would be highly de-
sirable to introduce the compulsory regulations of Prussia among
them. There is a portion of the parish where there. are 150 chil-
dren capable of attending school, who are so distant from a school-


