
    386                           BANFFSHIRE.

    and the young plantations are very ornamental. This property,
    along with another in an adjoininG parish, was destined b the late
    Mr Chalmers to the establishment of an hospital in Banff.
       Parochial RegisterS.-The parochial registers are, Ist, book of
    discipline, commencing in the year 1666, kept regularly, con-
    taining also the money transactions of the kirk-session, with regard
    to the poor; 2d, register of baptisms, commencing in the year
    1676, and kept regularly; 3d, register of marriages, continued
    from 1672 to 1680.  There is then a complete blank till 1773,
    but from that period the registration is regular.

                             III.-POPULATION.
       The population of the parish in 1841 was 2876.  The number
    of families 623, all belonging to the Established Church, with the
    exception of about 40.  Of these, about twelve belong to the Se-
    cession Church, about ten to the Roman Catholic, and six to the
    Episcopal church, and about eight to the Baptist communion,
    all of whom have places of worship in the village.

                               IV.-INDUSTRY.
       Agriculture.-The real rental of the parish is about L.7000.
    The highest rent of land per acre is L.3, the ordinary rent is from
    18s. to L.1, 2s.  A considerable portion does not exceed from
    12s. to 15s. per acre.  It is believed that agriculture has, within
    the last twenty-five years, by the improvement of waste land, added
    about one-third to the rental of the parish.  Improved breeds of cat-
    tle have been introduced in several of the farms, and crossed
    with the native breeds, with apparent advantage.  The new system
    of drainage has also commenced here.
       The lands of Crombie have been much improved of late years
    by the two enterprising tenants.  One of them, Mr Smith, gained
    a medal from the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland
    in 1836, for the improvement of wastd and other land.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       Markets, &c.-In the village, there are regular markets for feeing
    servants  the terms of Whitsunday and Martinmas. During the
    winters, there in a weekly grain market on Monday, as also an an-
    aual market On second Tuesday of March, for horses and and cat-
    tle, called Marnoch fair. There are six public houses in the pa-
    rish, one in the country, and five in the village,-- three too many.
    There are a branch of the North of Scotland Bank, and a stamp-
    office in the village, as also a post-office, and regular runners every
    lawful day to Banff and Huntly.  The turnpike between these
    places runs through the village, and also the road between Tur-
				3


