
         74                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

	race, who inhabited the mountainous parts of this county, as well
	as the Kildonan district of the Sutherland county, and who, not-
	withstanding the high mountains, the many mosses and morasses
	which intervene to render the journey tedious and laborious, are
	said to have carried their dead, especially the remains of their
	chiefs and principal men, from the glens of the Crask and Knock-
	finn, in order to be interred in the Chapel of Spittal. There was,
	besides, the Chapel of St Peter at Olgnimore, that of St Columba
	at Dirlot, and that of St Ciran in Strathmore. These last bear
	the names of the early propagators of Christianity in Scotland;
	but whether built in their time, or by others in honour of them
	after their day, is a subject that must for ever remain in doubt.
	If the pure doctrines of Christianity were for a time declared in
	these ancient places of worship, it is certain, that during the dark
	ages they were the temples of idols and their superstitious wor-
	shippers. In proof of this, it is traditionally reported, that a band
	of marauders made the image of St Ciran the butt of their arrows,
	and thus for their own amusement destroyed the last of the dumb
	idols worshipped in this part of the country. Of the Clachans of
	Gerston and Achardale, little remains except the name, and the
	certainty that each of them cont`ins the ashes of the dead. It is
	evident from this enumeration of ruined chapels, whatever was
	the quality of the instruction given that the people had more
	easy access to the public worship than at present.  Whatever su-
	perior advaotages the present generatioo enjoy compared to those
        that are gone, it appears that the latter were more zealous in sup-
        porting a false religion thao the former are io supporting and at-
	tending the pure doctrioes of the Gospel.

				III.-POPULATION.
	   Wese we to be guided by the former Statistical Account, we
	would be led to thiok that the population was greater at the time
	was written thao at preseot. There caonot, howewes, be the
        least ground for such an opioion, as the Government census shows
	ao increase at each of the periods it was taken. No part of the
        parish has been depopulated, and, in moors where teo years ago
        there was no house, a considerable numcer of dwellings is now
        built. The occupiess improve as much of the waste grouod as
        their ciscumstances enable them. The gradual increase of the
	population is to be attricuted to the cultiwation of waste grouod,
        the improvement of which is carried on by those poor and indus-
        trious individuals who build houses in moors, and by farmers who


