
308                       BERWICKSHIRE.

   Farm-labourers, labourers employed on the roads, &c. are paid
at the rate of 10s. per week for the summer half year, and 9s. for
the winter. The wages of mason and carpenter may be stated
from 15s. to 18s. per week.
   Prices of Implements, &c.-A double horse cart, full mounted,
with iron axle tree, costs L. 12, 12s.; a single horse cart, do. do.
L. 10, 10s.; a long cart do. without wheels, L. 4, 4s.; a wheel-
barrow, full mounted, 18s.; an iron plough, full mounted, L. 3,
3s.; a wooden plough, L. 1, 15s.; a pair of wooden barrows, full
mounted, L. 2, 2s,; building stone and lime dikes, per square rood,
18s.; building dry-stone dikes, per running rood, 3s.; sawing of
fir-wood, per 100 feet, 2s. 6d.; sawing of hard-wood, do. 4s. 6d.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.-The breeds of sheep in the parish are
various, according to the soil and situation. On the best land the
pure Leicester is the breed preferred; on the higher ground they
are generally of the Cheviot breed. A considerable number of
half Leicester and half Cheviot are also kept. Very few black-
faced are kept. Until lately it cannot be said that much atten-
tion has been paid to the improvement of the breed of cattle. The
cows at one time were of a very ordinary description; but of late
years, it has been a practice for two or three neighbouring tenants
to club together and keep a well-bred bull, since which time a very
considerable improvement has taken place. More attention than
formerly is also paying to the breed of farm-horses.
   Husbandry.-The system of husbandry pursued differs consider-
ably in different parts of the parish; but it many be safely affirmed,
that in no part of the island is the management of land better un-
derstood than in this parish. The farmers of this neighbourhood
have long been distinguished for intelligence and enterprise, and
the changes which in consequence have taken place of late years,
and are still taking place on the appearance of the country, are
great. On one farm, 100 acres of moor have, within ten years, been
added to the cultivated land of the parish; on another, 150 acres
have been reclaimed within six years; and on various other farms
the changes have been equally great. The general rotation of
crops in the upper part of the parish is what is called the five-shift
rotation, viz. 1. turnips or fallow; 2. barley or wheat; 3. grass;
4. grass; 5. oats. On the best land of the parish the rotation is
the six-shift, viz. 1. fallow; 2. wheat; 3. hay; 4. oats; 5. beans;
6. wheat. The four-shift is also followed in some parts of the pa-
rish. The distance from lime is inconsiderable; but as the coals


