
        150                    SUHERLANDSHIRE.

        numerous small rivulets; and still more inland, several lofty bills,
        forming part of the high and-stormy centre range of Sutherland
        mountains, mark the boundaries of the parish to the west and
        north.  Greatly different from this elevated district the low grounds
        of the parish along the sea-coast contain well-cultivated farms, sur-
        rounded by several townships occupied by small tenants, and com-
        posed of neat stone cottages,-these farms connected together by
        excellent and well kept roads, which intersect the cultivated parts
        of the parish in all directions.  The elevation of two of the highest
        mountains above the level of the sea, as ascertained by measure-
        ment, is as follows, -Ben Ormin 2306 feet; Ben Horn 1712 feet.
           The only cave deserving notice is a small one of peculiar con-
        struction above the Bridge of Brora; it seems to have been form-
        ed by the action of the water on a soft portion of the rock, before
        the river became imbedded in its present low level.
           The coast is low and sandy, and has a breadth of sand hills, ex-
        tending about a quarter of a mile from the shore, and covered with
        bent, and where not broken, with rich pasture.  This sandy belt
        is succeeded by the arable land occupied by the lotters or small
        tenants, and the fine farms of Inver Brora and Clynelish; and be-
        hind them are the hills of the interior division.
           Temperature. -Along the sea coast, the weather is the same as
        in the neighbouring parishes, with the exception, perhaps, of the
        parish of Golspie, which is better sheltered by plantations, and not
        so exposed to storms from the mountains in the centre of the
        county as the low grounds of this parish are, when the wind blows
        down the opening of Strath Brora.  The north-west gales blow
        with great force down this strath, the high hills on each side form-
        ing natural funnel, and the blasts spread along the low grounds,
        often causing much injury to the crops.  The soil being Of a
        light, sharp, gravelly quality, occasional long droughts materially
        affect vegetation; but it revives rapidly on being refreshed by the
        copious showers, which seldom fail to come in time to save it.
           The climate may be considered on the whole excellent, of which
        the healthy appearance and the longevity of the people furnish the
        best demonstration.  The prevailing winds are east or north-east,
        west or south-west.  The east wind is sometimes damp, cold, and
        penetrating, and the west wind excessively violent.
           Hydrography.-Loch Brora is the principal sheet of water in
        the parish.  It is about four miles long, and varies from a quarter
        to half-a-mile in breadth, being contracted two points, and has
                                        8


