
              PARISH OF ELIE.

       PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

      THE REV. GEORGE MILLIGAN, MINISTER.


       I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--ETYMOLOGY is always an uncertain subject. In regard
particularly to the names of places, which have existed for genera-
tions, it is often impossible to discover the causes which led to
their being imposed, or, what is more likely, the accident in which
they had their origin. That of "Elie" is involved in the gene-
ral obscurity. The writer of the former Statistical Account has,
according to the fashion which seems to have prevailed in his
days, as well as now, had recourse to Gaelic, the mother, as it
should seem, of languages, and tells us, that the parish received
its name from "A Liche," signifying "out of the sea or out of
the water." Being ignorant of Celtic, we are unable to decide how
far the derivation is correct. We are disposed, however, to doubt
its soundness. For the village is not further out of the sea than
any other part of the coast. Nay, if we may so speak, it extends
farther into it-the Frith of Forth being narrower here than
in any other quarter below Burntisland. We should rather be in-
clined to consider "Elie" as having sprung from the Greek word
"oxos" a marsh. And this is the more likely to be true, as the ap-
pellation of "Ely" in England seems to have had a similar origin,
and to have been given to the isle of that name, situated at a con-
siderable distance, from the sea, in consequence of the marshy na-
ture of the surrounding country. It may be alleged that the Scot-
tish Elie is not a marshy district; but that, on the contrary, the soil is
dry and sandy. The argument, however, is no irrefragable answer
to our conjecture. For one part of the parish is bounded by the
loch of Kilconquhar, where there is a considerable portion of
marshy ground; and besides, the land must have been wet before
the improved system of agriculture by draining, &c. was introdu-
ced. As a proof of this, we find that agues were at one time very
common. But of late they have entirely disappeared--the last


