
190				DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Embanking.--In the way of embanking, much permanent bene-
fit has been secured by the extensive operations of the late Sir
Alexander Jardine, who protected from the floods in the river An-
nan a very considerable breadth of the richest lands in the parish,
thereby fitting them for the growth of wheat, their natural and most
profitable produce. The embankments are carefully kept up, and
nothing farther remains to be done in that way.
	The ordinary duration of leases is for fifteen years; and for nine-
teen or twenty-one years where the lands let are unproductive, or
require great outlay by the tenant.
	The general management and productiveness of the land have in-
creased much of late years. Soon after the commencement of this
century, farmers, stimulated by high prices, began to give attention
to the accounts of better and more liberal systems of agriculture,
which were emanating from more improved districts; Roxburgh-
shire and the Lothians particularly. The example was followed,
and, conjoined with favourable markets, created capital which was
in many cases freely employed in farther ameliorations. Rents, as
leases expired, kept pace, or nearly so, with the rise of prices and
increased produce. But when these flourishing times began to
change in 1815, and continued to decline in subsequent years, the
rents did not by any means fall in equal proportion. Since that
period, many of the seasons have proved unfavourable, as in 1816,
1823, and 1830. Many of the tenants have been stripped of their
former gains, and an effectual bar placed in the way of any thing
like very extensive improvement.
	One great obstacle to improvement on the part of the tenants
is the diminution of their capital in consequence of the fall of
prices, unproductive seasons, and disproportioned high rents. These
over-stretched rents are not attributable to the landlords, who them-
selves, heavily burdened, naturally take what they can obtain in the
market from good tenants. The fact seems to be, that there are
too many engaged in agriculture, or, in other words, the competi-
tion for farms is so eager, that land has not been allowed to fall to
its fair value. Profits, therefore, are nothing, and, in too many
inst`nces, less than nothing; so that tenants find it difficult to car-

ry into effect plans which appear and would prove beneficial. In
these circumstances, the aid of the landlord seems indispensable,
at least where extensive improvements are contemplated. But
the fluctuating nature of the times during the last fifteen years,
in respect to agriculture, and the fall of rents,--for fallen they


