
	60                          BANFFSHIRE.

	Applications for assistance from charitable funds are stated to be
	increasing in frequency in the parish; and it seems to be the opi-
	nion of all who have the means of observing, that feelings of dis-
	inclination to resort to such assistance are fast wearing off. There
	is good reason for suspecting, besides, that the existence of so
	many charitable institutions in the parish has been the means of
	attracting poor persons to come from a distance to settle in it.
	   Prison.-The number of prisoners confined in Banff jail for
	three years has been as follows :

<TABLE>
                  		     1832,	1833.	1834.
   Debtors,                 22   17     9
  Criminals,                15   16    45
  Revenue offenders,         5    4     2

      Total each year,        42   37  56

	Looking to the strength of the walls of the prison, the solidity
	of its window gratings, and the ponderous iron door which shuts in
	its main passage, one would scarcely suppose a prisoner could have
	much chance of escape; yet, in some instances, escapes have
	been made from it, and in others, attempts to escape have only
	been discovered when almost on the point of success- Some years
	ago, a few Crown debtors were confined for enormous penalties,
	incurred for contravention of the excise laws; and on this occasion,
	so little dependence were the inhabitants disposed to place in the
	power of walls or bolts to retain the captives, that, having the fear
	of the Exchequer before their eyes (it being understood that the
	town would be liable for payment of the penalties if the prisoners
	escaped,) they turned out, every night, in companies of four or six
	by rotation, to guard the doors and windows of the prison.  Still
	the prison may be said to be well secured.  It is also entirely firer-
	proof.  But it.is decidedly deficient in accommodation. There
	are only two apartments for the reception of civil prisoners, each
	19 feet square; and it is understood that a burgess of the town,
	if confined in one'of these, has the power to exclude from it all
	others who may not possess that happy distinction.  Unfortunate-
	ly, he cannot exclude them from the prison altogether.  Instances
	have occurred in.which ten or twelve persons have been huddled
	together, day and night, in one of these apartments, or with only
	the additional accommodation of the narrow passage into which
	the apartments open.  There are frequently six or eight persons
	in one of them.  The situation of the prison is airy enough,


