
160                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

Prestelloch, and Conglens, once belonging to the parish of Inch-
cailliach, are now annexed to the parish of Luss.
   There are few events which have been deemed worthy of record
connected with the early history of this parish. When Haco of Nor-
way invaded Scotland in the year 1263, part of his fleet sailed up
Loch Long to Arrochar.  The Norwegians having landed here,
hauled their boats across the isthmus, embarked on Loch Lomond
at Tarbet,sailed down the lake,slaughtered and plundered the inha-
bitants of Luss and the islands, which were then very populous, and
were moreover crowded with people who had fled thither for security
from all parts of the country. About the beginning of the twelfth
century, Alwyn, the second Earl of Lennox, had granted a charter
conferring the lands of Luss on Malduin, Dean of Lennox. His
posterity, who were styled de Luss, possessed the estate, till the
fourteenth century, when it passed to Colquhoun of Colquhoun
by his having married the sole heiress. The principal part of the
parish continued to be possessed by the direct descendants of these
individuals in the male line, till about the beginning of the last
century, when it again passed by marriage of the sole heiress to
Grant of Grant, the ancestor oi the present Sir James Cclqu-
boun. Robert, a younger brother of Sir Humphrey Colquboun,
obtained a charter in 1395 of the lands of Camstraddan and
Achingahan, and became the ancestor of the family of Camstrad-
dan. The present Sir James Colquhoun's father purchased the
estate of Camstraddan from the hereditary proprietor, and re-an-
nexed it to the estate of Luss, and thus became proprietor of the
whole parish, except the quoad sacra annexation of BannachAra.
  Eminent Characters.--Sir John Colquhoun, grandson of that
Sir John who was slain in Inchmurren by the islanders in 1440,
deserves to be mentioned here. He was in 1474 made Lord
High Chamberlain of Scotland, and Ambassador Extraordinary to
the court of England. In 1477, he was made Governor ot Dum-
barton Castle, for life. Having acquitted himself in every station
with fidelity and honour, he was killed by a cannon-ball at the
siege of that fortress, on the Ist of May 1478.
   Mr John M'Laurin, a very distinguished divine, brother to
the celebrated mathematician of that name, was minister of Luss
early in the last century, from which he was translated to Glas-
gow.
   The late minister, Dr John Stuart, was equally esteemed for
his excellent character, and his rare attainments in literature and

                                    3


