34                         ARGVLESHIRE.
q'lie're is no regular cod, litw,, or bake fishing, but a few indi-
vidtials ehdeavour to supply the market of the burgb with these
and other fishes.
 The sbores were let by the late Duke for salmon fishing, at a
rent of L. 50 per aiinum, and stake nets were emploed ; but they
are fished now by the servants, and for the use of the present
'Duke.Few fish of the salmon tribe are caught till the month of
June.V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Burghof Invera-y.-If Inverary existed prior to the fotir-
teentbcentury, it was probably nothing more than a fishing vil-
lage.When the family of Argyle fixed their residence here, their
retainers and friends would naturally arrange their dwellings rotind
the castle of their chief, both to give and to receive protection. The
earliest mention known of it is in the fifteenth century, when, on
the Sth May 1472, a charter was granted to Colin, first Earl of
Argyle, erecting Inverary, 11 Inourevra" into a biirgb of barony.
It was erected into a royal btirgfi by charter from Charles I.
in 1648, with a territory extending from the Cromalt burn on the
south, to the green and yard dikes of the Duke's castle, the lands
of Kilmilleu, and the burn of Aucbareoch respectively on the
north; Loebfyne on the east; and the Duke's park and the com-
mon tnoor on the west.
In 1742, the causes whhch led to the buildii)g of the burg], so
near the castle having ceased to operate, the old buildings were
pulled down, and houses were erected by the Duke for the idba-
bitants, on ground given them at a nominal rent, under lease of
three nineteen years on the present site, then called Ardrainicb.
. By the charter, the council is declared to consist of a provost
and four bailies, and the inhabitants possessed the right of elect-
ing the former from a leet of three, and the latter from a leet of
four, supplied by the Duke of Argyle. By the reform bill, the
magistrates consist of sixteen councillors, one provost and two
bailies.
The. magistrates possess both a'criminal and civil jurisdiction
over the boundaries of the burgh ; and whatevdr police regulations
are necessary for watching, lighting, cleaning the streets, manag-
ing the supply of water, &e. are framed by them in council.
The population of the burgh in 1831 was 11 17; in 1841, 1233;
and the nun-ber of persons resident within the royalty whose rent
in property or tenantry amounted to L. 10 or opwardsp was 63


