
                         PETERHEAD.                           379

years back this fishing has been entirely given up, as the summer
dried baddocks have proved more profitable.  From the locality
of Boddam, extending into the German Ocean, and nearly as far
east as Peterhead, the haddocks are always within the reach of
the fishermen.  These haddocks, when taken from the boat, are
split up, carefully washed, and salted in heaps upon the beach;
after lying a sufficient time, they are carried to the rocks and
spread out, one by one, great care being taken to preserve them
from occasional rain.  They are every night gathered into heaps,
and again spread out in the morning.  After being sufficiently
dried, and in condition for preserving, they are taken home and
stored up.  Previous to being taken to market, they are smoked
on spits with peat smoke, which , gives them a fine colour and an
agreeable flavour.  They are then put into one heap, and strongly
pressed down, which gives them a fine marketable appearance.
   The fish from Boddam obtain a decided preference in the
market,-partly from the great care taken upon them, by the people
themselves but in a great measure owing to the rocks along the
shore on which the fish are dried, and which are quite clean and
free from sand.
   The average value of the last five years' fishing has been nearly
as follows:-

<TABLE>
The crews of 2l boats with four men each, say at L.25 each man, L.2100  0  0
The fishing of 12 boats with six men each, say at L.8 each man,    576  0  0
                                                                ------------
                                                                L.2676  0  0
The yearly value of the fish used by the fishermen, and of oil made by
   them, and of the dog fish, and refuse sold for manure, may be esti-
   mated at L.20 for each family, and, taking the number of fimilies at
   80, the sum is,     .     .     .     .     .                  1600  0  0
                                                                ------------
                 Total exclusive of herrings,	                L.4276  0  0
                 Add estimated produce of herring-fishery,        2000  0  0
                                                                ------------
                                                                L.6276  0  0

which divided among 80 families, gives nearly L.80 to each.
   It would be improper to overlook the outlay incurred by the
fishermen, which is considerable.  Each boat while at the herring-
fishing requires to have a hired man, whose wages are equal to one-
eighth part of the price of a crane of herrings.  Female servants are-
engaged, not for the half year, but during the fishing, perhaps for
three months, and their wages, are from L.2 to L.2, 10s.  A
considerable quantity of salt, bark, hemp, bair, &c. are necessary,
for the general fishings, and the boats used are of the beat quality,
and are never kept above seven or eight years, when they are dis-
posed of to less wealthy fishermen, and replaced by new ones. A


