
     Of Traquair.

colour of that stone.  Know is borrowed from its situation,
being on a small elevation above the course of Quair; and
the name of Scrogbank is borrowed from the farms, being
partly covered with juniper bushes, and other brush-wood,
which, in the old dialect of the country, received the general
denomination of scrogs.  Though many of the places still
retain their Celtic names, the language has been for many
hundred years, perhaps, lost.  The inhabitants, in general,
speak the old Scottish dialect.

   State of the Poor in 1782 and 1783.-During this period
of public calamity, the poor of the parish were liberally as-
sisted.  Such as were upon the poor's roll, received their
usual monthly allowance; besides which, according to their
necessity,they were served with a proportionable quantity of
meal, partly at the expense of the heritors, tenants, and kirk-
session, and partly at the reduced price of 22d. the stone*.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The distance from coals
is a disadvantage under which the whole of the inhabitants
labour, and the ill repair in which the public roads are kept,
makes the disadvantage the greater.  The parish is equally
distant from lime; so that both comfortable accomodation in
the inclemency of winter, and the improvements of agricul-
ture, would be greatly benefited by a proper attention being
paid to them.  It is believed, that the statute-work not ex-
acted in kind, as was formerly the care, but demanded in
money, would be sufficient to make proper roads through the

     3 B 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The money laid out in the parish for relief to the poor in that period of
scarcity, besides the ordinary contributions, was upwards of 4ol.  The parish
adopted their plan of procedure at that time, from the method used during the
scarcity of the year 1740.  Since the years 1782 and 1783, the session's contri-
butions are more than doubled.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               


