
			INVERAVEN.                              141

   pend was modified in 1821 at 15 chalders; and there are still about
   L. 100 Sterling of free teind.
      The itinerant proacher in Glenlivet has L. 60 a-year, and L. 5 for
   furnishing communion elements; and, besides an allowance for
   peats, he has a small farm on the Gordon estate, rent free, in lieu of
   a croft, with the privilege of a range of hill pasture for sheep.
      The Roman Catholic priests are chiefly supported by their hear-
   ers; both possess farms at moderate rents, and the one officiating at
   Chapelton has L. 20 a-year, from funds provided by the Abbe
   M'Pherson. Bishop Kyle, who resides at Pressholm, in the parish
   of Rathven, is the Roman Catholic bishop of the district.
      Schools.--The only school in the church district, is the parish
   school, where the average attendance of scholars is, in summer, 44,
   and in winter, 53. In Glenlivet, there are 4 Protestant schools; 3
   of them male and one female; and 3 Roman Catholic schools, 1 male
   and 2 female. The Roman Catholic seminary or college there, men-
   tioned in the former report, was moved in 1799 to Achertes, near
   Aberdeen.  Of the male Protestant teachers, one has a salary from the
   Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, another from the Ge-
   neral Assembly's Committee for Highland Schools, and the third a
   small one of L. 5 from the Gordon estate,--and from the same quar-
   ter the Protestant female teacher has L. 5 a-year, in addition to a
   similar sum allowed by the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
   ledge. The Roman Catholic male, and one of the female teachers
   have each L, 10a-year from funds provided by the Abbe M'Pherson;
   the other has also a small salary. The General Assembly's and So-
   ciety's teachers have houses and gardens; and, with the exception of
   the female one, are also provided with peats, by the inhabitants of the
   district in which they labour, or are allowed an equivalent. The paro-
   chial schoolmaster has a good house and garden, and besides his
   fees, which may average about L. II a year, and the emoluments
   of the session clerkship, he has a salary of L. 28, 17s. 5d., and a
   share of the Dick bequest.
      Some few parishioners may still be found who are unable to
   read and write, but their number is gradually decreasing. The,
   schools are well attended, and the people are fully alive to the be-
   nefits of education, and ready to avail themselves of the means of
   it, which are now fortunately within their reach: only a female
   school is much wanted in the parish church district. At the Pro-
   testant schools in Glenlivet, a number of Roman children are in at-
   tendance who read the Bible, and are engaged promiscuously with


