
     of Kirkmichael.

corns are off the ground, is a circumstance very unfavourable
to the culture of sown grass, which has not as yet been reme-
died.  Oats are sown in April; potatoes are planted; lint-
seed and bear, with grass-seeds, sown in May; turnips in
June.  Harvest seldom begins sooner than September.  It is
commonly the middle, or about the end of October, and
sometimes the middle of November, before it is all gathered
in.  The greater part of the parish is better adapted for pas-
turage than for tillage; and some of the proprietors are accor-
dingly laying several of their farms under sheep.

   Population, Rental, etc.-In 1755, the number of souls
was rated at 2689.  The population of the parish has decreas-
ed much within these 20 years, and continuing to decrease,
on account of considerable tracts of land being converted into
sheep farms, and the inhabitants forced to migrate to other
countries.^  The number of souls in the parish is about 2200.
The number of males is to that of females, as 44 is to 50.

<FOOTNOTE>

^Few more interesting objects can engage the attention of a humane,
patriotic, and enlightened Statesman, than the question, Whether the encrease
of population in towns, be a full compensation for its diminution in the coun-
try.  Is the strength and security of the State augmented?  Is the acquisition of
more numbers, and of wealth, an equivalent for the depravation of morals,
and the decay of public spirit?  Is the sum of happiness in the body of the
people encreased?  Is a town life as favourable as a country life, to the cul-
ture of religious affections, and of the social virtues?  If not, whether is the
greater degree of happiness found among a people virtuous and religious,
though wanting many temporal conveniences and accommodations; or among
a people less virtuous and religious, but possessed of better accommodations?
If the country should be depopulated, is it easy to re-place its inhabitants:
or it is true that
     "A bold peasantry, their country's pride,
     "When once destroyed, can never be supplied?"


