
318                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

covered with copse, and studded sideway with little perennial
springs, is an unique picture of choice Highland scenery. North
Berwick Law, half a mile south from the town, is a very beautiful
conical hill, about 940 feet above the level of the sea, standing
on an elevated plain, and of comparatively easy ascent. The
various views in ascending, and especially from the summit of the
hill, inland and seaward, are of the most delighting and com-
manding character. The ruins on the top are only of modern
date, and were the residence of the party-(a naval officer and
three assistants,) charge of the signal station established there-
on during the late war, and dismantled on the return of peace.
The erections are all unroofed, and yearly accumulating the usual
interest and tokens of time and tempest. The Law is of consider-
able extent, fully 70 acres, and is used for, the pasture of sheep.
It is wooded near the base to the east, whence there is an ascent
of the mountain by a prepared zig-zag path, called from its form
the M-Walk. An enclosed green meadow, enriched with venerable
elm trees, surrounds it on the south and west. On the south side
of the hill is a quarry of excellent reddish stone, from which the
town has principally been built.
   Links.-Links extend along the shore. Those to the west of the
town are attached to the Abbey portion of the barony of North Ber-
wick, and are pastured by the cows of the inhabitants of the West-
gate, the portion of the town beyond the bounds of the royalty.
Those to the east of the town are the property of the town, a
common for the burgesses, whose cows graze along, terminating
with the public washing-house and bleaching green, and bounded
by Mill-burn, the only stream in the parish. It is proposed to
feu the southern and elevated portion of the eastern links for vil-
las, according to a plan which is now being arranged; a scheme
which promises to be an essential improvement to the appearance
and interests of North Berwick.
   Coast.-The coast, very rocky, full of inequalities and indentures,
may be stated to be of about three miles and a-half in extent, faced
on the west by the greenstone island of Craigleith, and on the east
by the Bass. A very beautiful semicircular bay lies immediately
to the west of the harbour reaching to Point Garry; a smaller is to
the east of the town at the foot of the Rhodes farm; and a third and
larger, much admired, named Canty Bay, lies about three miles
east of the town, directly opposite to the Bass, which is the resi-
dence of the tenant of the Bass, and his assistants, where boats.
                           4


