
558                   ARGYLESHIRE.


Neil Campbell, late governor of Sierra Leone, and son of the last
proprietor, was born at Duntroon. A handsome marble tablet is
erected to his memory, and another to the memory of his father,
in the church of Kilmartin, by his surviving brother, Lieutenant-
Colonel Patrick Campbell, R. A., late British Consul at Egypt.
This castle withstood the ravages of the celebrated Coll Macdo-
nell, alias Colla Ciotach, i.e. left-handed Coll, and his followers,
when he invaded Argyleshire.
  The general account given of this desperate and ambitious man
is, that either his father or grandfather had carried off a daughter
of the Earl of Argyll, whom he married. Payment of her dowry
having been refused by Argyll, in consequence of her elopement,
and her having married a person below her rank, without consent,
Coll applied to his namesake and chief, the Earl of Antrim, for
assistance to enforce his claims. Antrim, who bore no good  will
towards Argyll for joining the Covenanters, and on account of
other private quarrels, aided Macdonell by raising 3000 men in
Ulster to invade Scotland, but in particular Argyleshire. With
this force he landed in Kintyre, and proceeded northward, de-
stroying the residences, and pillaging the property of every Camp-
bell that lay in his way, with the exception of one, viz. Campbell
of Auchanellan in the parish of Kilmartin, whom he spared on ac-
count of his being a minister of the Established Church. From
Castle Sween he proceeded by sea with his forces towards the Bay
of Crinan, intending to attack and destroy Duntroon Castle. He
sent his piper forward by land, in order to procure information.
The piper was admitted into the castle, when he found, by the
narrowness of the stair-case, that only one person could enter at a
time to attack the place, and that it was otherwise sufficiently
strong to repel the invaders; and being himself suspected, he was
confined to one of the upper turrets of the castle, where, seeing
Macdonell's forces approaching, he contrived to warn him of the
danger of making the attack, by playing on his bagpipes the well-
known pibroch,

to messengers to cite witnesses to the effect foresaid; and in regard there is no tutus
access for citing the persons complained of personallie, or at their own dwelling-
places, it is hereby declared that a citation at the market-cross of the head burgh of
the shire, within which their ordinary is-shall be sufficient.
                                                      (Signed)        CRAWFORD, C.
   By a separate list of depredations given in at the same time, it appears that not
only the Laird  of Auchinbreck, but likewise the families of Inverlivar, Kilmartin,
Poltalloch, Rassly, and Duntroon, together with a number of others in the neigh-
bouring districts, were subjected to the same wholesale plunder by the above-named
parties.
                                             4


