
 			      KINFAUNS.				1219

	pure West Highland breed are likewise usually kept by certain of
	the proprietors for the use of their own tables.    But most of the
	cattle of this parish are crossds, as just' stated; and are generally
	deficient either in size or symmetry-not unfrequently in both.
	As there is but little land allowed to lie in pasture, young cattle
	are kept at home, only in the winter months, to consume the straw;
	and sent to a distance to graze at the commencement of summer.
	   There is only one farmer in the parish who keeps sheep.
	These are of the pure Leicester breed, and usually number about
	300.  Two of the proprietors also keep a considerable number
	of the same breed; but those kept by, the proprietors, in general,
	are of the Highland or black-faced breed, as affording the most
	delicate mutton for the table.
	   Character of the Husbandry.-The general character of the
	husbandry pursued may be termed judicious.  In the low flat clay
	land near the Tay, the usual rotation of crops is the following :
	lst, fallow; 2d, wheat: 3d, beans and pease, 4th, wheat; 5th,
	barley; 6th, grass; 7th, oats.  In the higher grounds, between
	this flat land and the hills, a five years rotation is most commmon ;
	viz.  1st, oats ; 2d, green crop; 3d, wheat; 4th, barley ; 5th, grass.
	   The general duration of leases is nineteen years which is re-
	garded, both by the proprietors and tenants, as a favourable pe-
	riod.
	   Farm-Buildings.-The state of the farm-buildings is very good.
	The farmers' dwelling-houses are almost all large and commodi-
	ous, as are also the courts of offices.  Most of them are quite new,
	and all may be said to be comparatively new.
	   The more recent agricultural improvements have been, in par-
	ticular, furrow-draining the strong land with tiles, and the intro-
	duction, to a considerable extent, of chemical manures of light
	carriage, such as crushed bones, rape dust, guano, &c.  These
	tiles are manufactured, to a large extent, by a neighbouring pre-
	pristor, Sir John Stewart Richardson, Bart. of Pitfour, on the
	patent principle of the Marquis of Tweeddale.  The machinery
	for making these is wrought by a stea-engine, the clay being
	put in at one end of the, machine, and the tiles coming out at the
	other, shaped to great nicety, and ready for being put into the
	kiln.  The tenants in this parish, and indeed  throughout the
	Carse of Gowrie in general, have used these drain-tiles to a great
	estent, and have thereby improved their crops amazingly, both
	in quantity and quality.  And it is generally allowed, that, had


