
                         MUTHILL.                            313

   Climate.-From what we have already noticed of this parish,
there may be expected in different parts of it a difference of cli-
mate. Accordingly, in comparing the south side with the north,
it is found that snow lies two days longer on the former than on
the latter; and in accounting for this we would advert to the peculi-
arity of the straths, whereof the districts alluded to form a part;_
Strathearn, lying deep and flat, is defended by its mountain sides
from the violence of the storm, and the reflection of the sun's
rays from the hills produce a great degree of warmth in it,-while
through the opening of Strathallan, currents of wind, that issue
from the glens, sweep along the vale, and render it less warm and
fertile. The greater spaciousness of Strathern removes it also
the farther from the chilness of the mountain air, or of haze at-
tracted by the mountains; for it is not unfrequently seen, that,
whilst on the banks of the Earn the sun is shining, showers of rain
or showers of snow are falling upon the hills. The soil also of
Muthill may be taken into consideration as of a drier nature than
that of the other, because upon an opener bed, less retentive of the
rain, and so of the cold,-for doubtless there is a relationship be-
tween the soil and the atmosphere. Storms, however, frequent-
ly visit both. Our colder winds come from the east and north-
east, and the more violent from the south-west.
   The parish is, on the whole, healthy. Of the healthy aged we
have many examples.
   Hydrography.-In former days, there were in this parish several
springs or wells much esteemed for their virtues, real or imagined.
One of these is at Straid, in the district of Blair-in-roan, much
frequented once, as effectual in curing the hooping-cough.*
   In the same district, is St Patrick's Well, so named from a cha-
pel once there, probably dedicated to that saint.  Pvt of the foun-
dations of the chapel is still to be seen, and close by there are a
few houses lately built, which bear the name of the saint. We
know not what connection St Patrick had with this sequestered
spot; but it is certain, that the inhabitants, until very lately, held
his memory in so high veneration, that on his day neither the clap
of the mill was heard, nor the plough seen to move in the furrow.

<FOOTNOTE>Not farther back than a few weeks ago, a family came from Edinburgh, a dis-
tance nearly of sixty miles, to have the benefit of this well. As a piece or useful
formation, we may add, that the water must be drunk before the sun rises, or im-
mediately after it set; wid that out of a " quick cow's horn," or a horn taken
from a live cows, which indispensable horn is in the keeping of an old woman  who
lives near by the well !!

