

			DUMFRIES.                               13

a mile in length, and a quarter of a mile in breadth. It has long
possessed the character of being a clean, well built town, and has
been improved and considerably enlarged within the last forty years.
The streets, and most of the public buildings, are well lighted by
gas, which was introduced about five years ago,* about which pe-
riod also a great improvement took place in the appearance and
fitting up of the shops, which are larger and much handsomer than
those of most provincial towns. The houses are built of red free-
stone; such as are of older date being generally white-washed, and
many in the modern part of the town painted in imit`tion of Port-
land stone.
	There are in Dumfries two parish churches. St Michael's,
which is furnished with a tall and handsome spire, was built
in 1745, and stands at the south-east end of the town on the site
of a place of worship originally Popish, but converted into the
Protestant parish church after the Reformation. The other
church, wich was not founded till 1724, and is still called the
New Church, terminates the High Street to the north-west, and
occupies the site of the old castle of Dumfries, out of the ruins of
which, materials for its erection were obtained. This church was
first opened for public worship in 1727.
	St Michael's, or the Old Church, is surrounded by an extensive
and crowded burying-ground, which contains a vast number and
variety of monuments, some of them vary ancient. We mentioned
above that in this cemetery are deposited the remains of our na-
tional poet Burns. They were originally interred in the north corner
of the churchyard, upon which spot a simple table-stone was raised to
his memory; but in 1815 his ashes were removed to a vault beneath
an elegant mausoleum, which was erected by subscriptions as a tribute
to his genuis, at a cost of L. 1450. this monument contains a hand-
some piece of marble sculpture, executed by Turnerelli, representing
the genius of Scotland finding the poet at the plough, and throwing
"her inrpiring mantle" over him. This burying-ground also con-
tains all that could die of three witnesses for the truth, who seal-
ed their testimony with their blood during the merciless persecu-
tions by which the house of Stewart vainly endeavoured to con-
taminate the purity of our Presbyterian faith and worship. The
graves are marked by plain slabs of freestone, with rude inscrip-

<FOOTNOTE>Measures are now (1833) in progress for supplying the town, by means of pipes,
with good spring water.



