			KEIR.                                 467

prietor. The Griersons, to whom a great part of the parish at one
time belonged, were of the family of Lag.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial register of baptisms, com-
mences in April 1722, and has been kept to the present time with
considerable regularity; that of marriages and deaths from 1721
till 1791, and since 1826; session records, collections, and dis-
bursements of poors' money, since 1692.
	Antiquities.--A chapel is reported to have stood on Kilbride
hill; and a cottage still remains, with walls about three feet thick,
which is said to have been the manse. The position of the chapel
is assigned to a spot on which the presdnt farmer declares that he
has often laid bare with the plough a piece of pavement composed
of small stones, all of a size. A neighbouring patch of ground, on
which the crops are alwavs too luxuriant, is pointed out as the
churchyard. A person lately dead used to tell that he had as-
sisted in removing some of the grave-stones, and in collecting and
burying scattered human bones.
	Close to where the parish church now is, on the south-east side,
stood an upright stone, six feet high, surrounded by three or four
flat ones. It had no inscription, and bore the name of "The
Grey stane." At the head of the ravine, formed by the Glen Lacht,
Cleugh House, or Barndennoch burn, lies a large stone, called
"The Siller stane," near which were found several stone axes.
Some persons once attempted to split it with gunpowder, but at
the first blast so dreadful a storm came on that they fled in terror!
It is a boulder stone, of a highly crystalline texture, and principally
composed of quartz and felspar. The piece which was blown off
emits a strong ringing sound when struck or trod on. At a mill
which once existed near it, the laird of Glen Lacht paid no mul-
ture, because the water came from his property. A stone, with
the initials of James Renwick, on the ridge of Keir hill, above
Staigholes, commemorates the place where he used to preach dur-
ing the times of persecution.  Small mound on the glebe is
pointed out as the spot where the plague was buried. On the
"Court Know" the neighbouring magistrates held a court.
	Modern Buildings.--These are Capenoch, Barjarg, and Black-
wood Houses. There is a mill for grain. The common materials
for building are the whinstone of the hills, and the red sandstone
from Gateloch Bridge, four to six miles off. This latter stone is so
extremely pervious to water, that it requires to be painted or tarred.
Many of the cottages are roofed with it. The rest are thatched.


