
328		     KINCARDINSHIRE.

traced without much difficulty. They occupy nearly the whole
surface, and appear to have been a fortified dwelling of no great
solidity, probably the resort or the residence of the family of Leys,
before their fortalice was built at Crathes. It is sometimes called
the Gow or "Goo"-house, perhaps from the number of gulls which
built their nests on the island. The water of the loth is of a dark
colour. It contains pike, and is frequented occasionally by great
numbers of sea-fowl, (some of which still breed there,) by several
varieties of wild duck, snipe, &c., and in some winters by the wild
swan. It is not fed by any constant rtream, and appears to derive
its origin solely from the moisture which percolates the soil on the
neighbouring heights, and which, finding here its low est level, col-
lects and makes its decrease is partly owing to
the clearing and cultivation of some of the surrounding land, and
partly to an attempt made, about ninetv years ago, to drain it by
deepening its communication with the Dee.
        Rivers.-The only streams requiring more particular notice are
the Dee and the Feugh. The former enters the parish at Wood-
end, from west-north-west, and, after making a rather short but
angular detour along the projecting hill of Trustach on its left
bank, it takes a larger but similar reach, conformable in the ge-
neral direction to the semicircular ridge already mentioned on its
right, and extending, to nearly the eastern bounder of the parish.
About the middle of this course it is joined by  the Feugh from
the south-west, and receives, as formerly noticed, several rivulets
on its northern and southern sides. Its channel is very generally
overspread with large pebbles and stones; and in some places, the
water flows on a rough bed of naked. rock, and forms considerable
rapids. A little way below the entrance of the Feugh two small
islands divide its stream. The larger is a low flat, sometimes
nearly covered by high floods, and about ehght or nine acres in
extent, two-thirds of which are covered with furze and coarse
grass, and the rest is a beach of pebbles, of which, together with
sand, nearly the whole is composed. The other islet in immediately
suceeds, and is not above one-eighth of the size of the former.
It is rather were elevate4 above the stream, consist chiefly of
sand is covered with trees, apparently the product of casual seeds,
and has an agreeable appearance. Both these islands seem to owe
their origin chiefly the substances brought down in the rapid
and the frequently swollen and powerful stream to the Feugh. They
are in fact a great measure its delta, which the superior force


