
 				 KENMORE.                           471

<TABLE>
                 Average number of persons under 15 years,         1067
                                           between 15 and 30,       835
                                                   30 and 50,       691
                                                   50 and 70,       411
                                           upwards of 70,           122
                                                                   _____
                                  Total, according to census 1831,  3126

It was mentioned in an early part of the article, that there are,
numerous instances of longevity. In corroboration of this aver-
ment, it may be stated here, that, in the village of Kenmore alone,
there are eight individuals, all females, of whom the united ages
amount to 683, giving an average of 85 years to each. The ex-
tremes of these ages are 74 and 94.
  There is one Noble family, that of the Marquis of Breadalbane,
usually resident for a considerable part of the year in the parish.
With this exception, there are neither individuals nor families
of independent fortune in the parish.

<TABLE>
             Number of unmarried men, bachelors, upwards of 50, 18
                                      widowers,                 39
                                 women, upwards of 45 years,    90
                                 widows,                        95

The number of families is 646; so that the average number of
individuals in each family is 4.88.
  Number of insane, 7; blind, 5; fatuous, 1O; deaf and dumb, 2.
  Language.-The language almost universally spoken is the
Gaelic. It is likewise the language in which the greater part of
the ministrations of religion is discharged. While I would say
that, within the last forty years, the language has neither lost nor
gained ground, I would likewise say that the English language is
becoming every day more generally familiar; for there is now hardly
an individual who is not capable, more or less, of making use of it.
How this invasion of the speech of our southern neighbours is ulti-
mately to operate, seems not a very difficult thing to conjecture.
At no distant period, it will, in all likelihood, so far prevail over
its less potent associate, as almost entirely, if not altogether, to
take its place. Nor does the substitution appear to be an event
greatly to be deprecated.
  Habits, &c.-Our people are no longer the "Reidschankes" of
Pitscottie, "cloathed with ane mantle, with ane schirt, fachioned
after the Irisch manner, going bair-legged to the knie;" for a
single instance of the kilt is scarcely to be seen from one end of
the parish to the other. Irish-like, indeed we use a vast deal of
potatoes, but then we manage to season these roots with a due
mixture of beef, mutton, and pork; not to speak of the milk,
cheese, and butter with which we are supplied from our dairies;


