
     Statistical Account

   Civil Antiquities.-Here Braal claims the first place.  It
is truly a beautiful and princely place, and may with great
propriety be called the Paradise of Caithness. Indeed, it
would make a figure in any northern county, were it duly
improved, for which it is a most excellent subject in this
corner of the world. Though very little improvements
have been made upon it, in comparison of what it deserves,
yet of old it was a capital feat of the Harolds Earls of
Caithness. The fabric, which is called the Castle or
Tower of Braal, stands on an eminence, at a small distance
from the river of Thurso.  It is completely square, of a
very large area, wonderfully thick in the walls, which are
partly built with clay, partly with clay and mortar mixed,
and in some parts with mortar altogether.  The stairs and
conveyances to the several stories are through the heart of
the walls. These stories were all of them floored and
vaulted with stones prodigiously large, as are indeed most
of the stones of the whole fabric.  A great part of it still
remains, is as plumb and firm as ever, and seems, from its
structure, to have been very high and stately; and what is
strange, the highest stones seem to be larger than those be-
low.  It surely cost immense labour to get some of them
up to such a height, especially in those days, when it is to
be supposed, they had no proper machinery for the purpose.
The plummet and rule were surely well applied in the pro-
gress of the work, but there is not the least impression of
block or chissel, which shews the great antiquity of it.  It
was manifestly a place of strength, as well as of habitation.

/f
Tait's sons chased and overtook him, and the scene was closed with a
most desperate fight.  This Tait was the progenitor of the Taits in this
country, and by his hand was planted a very large ash tree in Braal, which
fell several years ago, and there remains, as the fallen monarch of the
wood, and as a proof how his family would thrive there, if taken care of


