
                         OLD DEER.                      141

   Hydrography.-There is no natural lake of any considera-
tion in the parish.  But within the park or pleasure-ground of
Pitfour, the seat of George Ferguson, Esq.  Captain R. N.,
there is an arthfhcial one in front of the house, covering more
than 25 acres, tastefully designed, abundantly stocked with
tench, carp, and Lochleven trout, and crossed in its branches by
three neat stone bridges, one with three arches which open ap-
proaches to the mansion.  This irregular piece of water, made by
means of a deep embankment on one side to fill a winding hollow,
is skirted nearly round by large trees or young thriving plantations,
and has had lately erected on its brink, at the place where the flow
or spare water escapes, a very elegant small temple, constructed after
the plan of that of Theseus at Athens, and surrounded by thirty-
four granite columns.  The interior is neatly fitted up as a cold bath.
This lake, besides supplying a peculiar and beautiful object in the
landscape, and serving as a breeding-place or depot for fresh wa-
ter fish, has become the constant habitation of a colony of tame
swans, and, at particular seasons of the year, it may be seen occa-
sionally almost covered with flocks of wild ducks.
   The only streams of any considerable size that pass through the
parish, are the south and north branches of the Ugie, which blend
their waters in the parish of Longside, and flow into the sea toge-
ther scarcely a mile N. W. of Peterhead.  Owing to the small accli-
vity of the ground, and the numerous bends or turns of the valleys
through which they pass, they make in general a very sluggish and
meandering course; and where pains have not been taken to deepen
and straighten their channels, or raise proper embankments, they
are apt to overflow after falls of rain, and, unless in particular
spots, or in very dry times, to keep wet the flats on each side.
Containing as they do a plentiful supply of black or burn-trouts, they
afford abundance of what is called sport to the angler; but very
few of the salmon tribe, beyond mere fry, are to be found at this
distance from the sea.  The principal stream, where it passes the
church, has not run, perhaps, above ten miles from its source in
New Deer, and the surface from which it collects the water that
springs from and falls upon the earth, does not exceed fifty square
miles.  There are several tributary streams of less size, rising in
the parish, and some of them driving machinery as the poses along.
Most parts of the parish are well supplied with pure spring water;
but there are a few situations ill accommodated in this respect,
where pits have been dug in vain forty feet deep.  Chalybeates,


