
34                    KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

pupils; fees varying from 1s. 8d. to 3s. per quarter. About 100
children are educated gratuitously from a collection made yearly
in the parish church, and the interest of money mortified for the
purpose. In the town, classes almost constantly exist for the or-
namental branches of education. There are two endowed schools
in the country, each of the teachers of which has a house and gar-
den, and L. 25, 13s. 3d. of salary. These schools are generally
attended by nearly 100 scholars. None of the fees excedd 3s.
per quarter. There is likewise an unendowed school, attended by
about 40 scholars; the fees in it are very moderate.
	For about thirty years, a Sabbath school has been open in the
town, and has been attended generally by 300 scholars. It is un-
der the superintendence of the minister, assisted by the gratuitous
labours of a few benevolent individuals.
	From the opportunities of obtaining education which prevail,
and of which the people seem disposed to take advantage, there
are few or none above the age of seven years who cannot read.
	Literature.--A few years ago, the town contained two circulat-
ing libraries. At present, neither of them is in active, operation,
cheap periodical publications having tended to supersede them.
In 1777, the principal inhabitants of the district established a sub-
scription library, for which they selected books of interest and, me-
rit. Of late years, the number of subscribers has rapidly decreas-
ed, and few new works have been obtained. Last winter, how-
ever, a now library was formed on the basis of the old, and the to-
tal number of subscribers now amounts to about 50. It is still
impossible to predict what success may attend this institution.
	The town contains one reading-room, supported by subscription.
It receives no periodical works, but several Scotch and English
newspapers. There are two printers' presses in Kirkcudbright,
but no periodical works issue from them.
	Charitable and other lnstitutions.--No alms-houses, poor-houses,
or hospitals exist within the parish. A soup-kitchen, however,
confers an incalculable benefit upon the poor during the dreary
months of winter, by dispensing clean and wholesome nourishment
at least three times a-week, either gratuitously or at a very small
price.
	Saving's Bank.--At Whitsunday 1842, a branch of the, National
Security Savings' Bank was established in Kirkcudbright. From
its commencement until the 10th of May 1843, the deposits
amounted to L. 423, 9s. 10d., and the sums withdrawn were very


