
                           ORMISTON.                          149

given to the Edinburgh Missionary Society. A part of the funds
also is reserved for purchasing Bibles and Testaments to the poor
of the parish who need them.
   The ordinary collections at church amount to about L. 12 a-
year; besides which, collections are occasionally made for religious
and charitable purposes, amounting to about L. 15 a-year.
  Education.-There are, at present, three schools in the parish.
--The parochial school in the village of Ormiston, the master
of which has a salary amounting to L. 29, 18s. 91d. He has
also L. 1, 7s. 9 1/2 d. of mortified money, with a house and garden.
The house has two flats. The school occupies the under: the
upper, which is divided into several apartments, serves for the dwel-
ling-house. The garden being smaller than the law requires,
the schoolmaster receives an adequate compensation for the defi-
ciency. At present, the fees received amount to only about
L. 15 a-year. But they may easily amount to more than double that
sum.
   There is another school at Paiston, three miles south from the
parish school. It is of very long standing, being mentioned in the
earliest records of the parish. The schoolmaster has L. 1, 5s.
yearly of mortified money, a free house and school-house, and a
small sum of money as a salary given gratuitously by the proprie-
tor,-besides the school fees, which upon an average amount to
betwixt L. 15 and L. 20 a-year.
   A school was instituted two years ago by the Dowager Coun-
tess of Hopetoun, at House of Muir, a small village chiefly inha-
bited by colliers.  The schoolmaster has a free house, a small sa-
lary from her Ladyship, and the school fees. It has succeeded re-
markably well, and been of great benefit to the parish.
   From there being three schools in such a small parish, it is evi-
dent the means of education must be accessible to all. None are
precluded by distance from attending school, and if any parents are
so poor as not to be able to pay for the education of their children,
the school fees are paid for them. It is not wonderful, therefore,
that there should be no children betwixt six and fifteen years of age
who cannot read or write. Above that age, there are several who
cannot write, but very few who cannot read.
   But though much has, of late, been done and written to promote
education, it does not appear that the schools in this neighbour-
hood at least are actually more thriving than they were a century


