
          458                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          Fane, in the centre of which the Christian chapel was erected.
	  There were other two chapels,-one at the east end of the parish,
	  and the other at Galcantray; so that few places were better sup-
	  plied with the means of instruction.
	     The present church was built in 1767, and repaired in 1829;
	  seated for 527. It is most inconveniently placed, nearly border-
	  ing on the parish of Petty; but this inconvenience is, in some
	  measure, obviated by the circumstance, that though the parish is
	  upwards of twenty miles in length, there is not a point within
	  it much more than three miles from some parish church. What
	  a contrast to its spiritual destitution in 1567, when there was only
	  one reader (Mr Vause,) for this and the extensive parish of Moy,
	  whose yearly salary amounted to the sum of 13s. 4d. Sterling!
	  Since that year until 1823, there have been eight clergymen, the
	  average incumbency of each being for thirty-two years. This ac-
	  count would be defective, were the name of the Reverend James
	  Calder passed without notice. Of this truly good and eminent
	  pastor of the parish, it is difficult to determine, whether he was
	  most distinguished for his knowledge of the Scriptures, his unre-
	  mitting zeal for the glory of God, or his singular success in preach-
	  ing the Gospel of Christ. His manners were gentle, his charity un-
	  bounded, and his piety fervent. Genius, taste, and judgment di-
	  rected his pulpit oratory; and his powers of persuasion were
	  proved by their uncommon success. This highly honoured ser-
	  vant of Christ entered into his rest on the 24th of December 1775,
	  in the 64th year of his age, and 35th year of his ministry.
	     The stipend is 16 chalders, half meal, half barley, of Linlithgow
	  bolls measure, according to the fiars prices of the county. Un-
	  appropriated teinds amount to L.240, 4s. 10d.
	     Education.-The parish school has been very respectably at-
	  tended for many years, where the modern branches of education
	  are successfully taught on the most approved intellectual princi-
	  ples. The salary of the present teacher is the maximum, and the
	  house accommodation reflects credit on all the heritors and factors
	  connected with the parish.
	     Poor.-Average number of poor on the permanent roll, for the
	  years 1835, 1836, and 1837, 37. Average amount of church col-
	  lections in their behalf, for those years, L.17, 11s.: of other con-
	  tributions, L.3, 6s., of mortifications, mortcloth dues, &c. L.4, 15s.

             September 1841.


