
                             PORT OF MENTEITH.                           1101

     now exist in this quarter, is certainly no reason why it had not ex-
     isted in the eighth century. *
       The well-known Sir John Monteith, Commissioner of Edward I.
     of England, and the individual who delivered Sir William Wal-
     lace into Edward's hands, was younger son of Walter Stewart
     Earl of Monteith, and took his mother's surname, having obtain-
     ed part of her lands, the barony of Rusky.  Between his sons, John
     Menteith of Rusky and fou, otheir, on one part, and Sir John
     Drummond of Drummond, aided by Sir Walter Murray of Tulli-
     bardine, a feud arose, from the slaughter in 1330 of Bryee Drum-
     mond, procurator, son of Gilbert Drummond of Baiguhapple, a
     younger son of Sir J6bn Drummond's family; and this led to a hos-
     tile rencontre at Tor or Tar of Rusky, as reported by tradition,
     when, as from an extant document certainly appears, three of Rus-
     ky's brothers, namely, Walter, Malcolm, and William were killed.
     Mutual outrages followed ; nor was the difference adjusted till 17th
     May 1360, when Robert Erskin and Hew Eglinton, Justiciaries of
     Scotland, Sir Robert Grabam,and others of the nobles of Scotland,
     at the command, as is said, of King David II. met on the banks
     of the Forth, near Stirliiig, as arbitrators, and amongst other ar-
     rangements, awarded Rosneth, belonging to Sir John Drummond,
     to the only survivor of Rusky's brothers, Alexander, as a compen-
     sation for the slaughter of the others.  It is a fact worth noticing.
     that  Sir John was father of Anabella, Queen of Robert Ill.
       North-west of the lake of Inchmahome, at the Moss of Talla,
     where the Earl of Lennox, at the head of an army levied to avenge
     the death of King James III., had, (after marching from Dum-
     barton Cartle, held by him against King James IV.,) pitched his
     camp,-a skirmish took place, and ended in a chase, in night
     of the 11th or morning of the 12th of October 1489, when the
     Sovereign in person, with Lord Drummond as his Commander-
     iu-Chief, attacked Lennox unexpectedly.  This affair is known
     in popular history as the battle of Tullimoss, which Dishm Lesly,
     in ignorance, as would seem, of the topography of Menteith, speaks
     of as fought at a morass near the Castle of Touch.  Buchanan,

<FOOTNOTE> The learned Stukeley supposes that Guidie might have been a wooden fort on
     Inchgarvey. It is quite necessary, indeed, both in this case, and in the hyphotesis of
     its being in the vale of Menteith, to have rrecourse to a perishable material.  A more
     celebrated writer, but an inferior antiquary, has fixed on Camelon as the site in ques-
     tion.- Buchanani Historia, iv. 37. The Itinerary of Hardinge, who visited Scot-
     land in the fifteenth century in the service of Henry VI of England, is the b`sis of
     the theory of Sir Robert Sibbald, that the site of Guidie was the rock on which the
     castle of Edinburgh stands.


