
               KNOCKANDO.                                 65

hares, badger (Ursus meles,) wild cat, ermine, (Muste& ersninea,)
black rat (Mus raaza,) mole (Talpa Buropea.)
   Reptiles. -Adder (Vipera eommunis,) toad (Buffo,a
frog (Rana temPoraria,) eft (Triton aquaticus-4
   Ornithology.-A great variety.of warblers are found in the pa-
rish of Knockando, the woods affording a pleasing-shelter for build-
ing their nests.
          "Per virides passim ramos, sua tecta volucres
           Concelebrant, mulcentque vagis loan sola. querelis."
                                                   BUCHANAN.
     The following list contains the chief varieties, viz. Warblers.-
Blackbird (Turdus merula,) thrush (T. musicus,) bullfin ch (Pyr.
rhula vulgaris,) linnet (Fringilla cannabina,) robin red-breast (Syl-
via rubecula,) chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs,) and the skylark (Alauda
arvensis.)
          " Bird of the wilderneis,
          Blithesome and cumberless,
          Blessed be thy matin o'er moorland and lea."
                                                     Hooc.
   Game Birds.-Red grouse (Tetrao Scoticus,) black-cock T.
tetrix,) partridge (Perdix,) wood-cock (Scolopax rwticola,) snipe
(S. yallinago,) curlew (S. arquata,) wild duck (Anas boschas,)
lapwing (Vanellus cristatus,) pheasant (Phasianus Colchicus,) teal
(Anas creeca,) water ouzel (Sturnus cinclus.) During the sum.
mer season, the snipes take their departure, but return in winter
to breed. Game birds are rather decreasing than otherwise in
this'part of the country. Amongst other birds may be mention-
ed the eagle, as sometimes seen when passing to his eyrie, perched
on the summit of the lofty Ben Avon, 'or the " high Cairnaorum."
The swallow, 11 praeauntia veris," (-Mirundo,) the sparrow Pllwnyilk
domestica,) the merlin (Falco..AEsalon) thesparrow-hawk (F. Nirwj
the blue hawk (F. cyanew,) the rook (Corvus frugilegus,) the ra-
ven (C. Cordx) the hooded-crow (C. cornix,) the magpie (C. Pica,)
the owl (Strix,) the great wood-pecker (Piow major,) the wood,
pigeon (Columba Palumbus,) the wild and hum pigeon (C. hivia,)
the water-wagtail (Motacilla,,) the heron (Ardea cinerea,) the land.
rail orcorn-crake (Gallinula Crex..) and the cuekoo (Cucuhue ca-
norus.) Sea gulls sometimes come from the coast, and are ge-
nerally the harbingers of stormy weather. They bleed in the
lochs.
   Entonology. - The insect tribes in this parish are those common
to the district.
ELGIN.



