
300                       BERWICKSHIRE.

corax) builds on the most inaccessible sea cliffs, the carrion crow
(C. Corone), and the hooded or royston crow (C. cornix) being also
abundant. But perhaps the most interesting bird on this coast
is the red-legged crow, or Cornish chough (Pyrrhocorax gra-
culus), a bird mentioned about 300 years ago by Bishop Lesslie, in
his work "de Origine Scotorum," as occurring on the eastern coast
of Scotland, but which, since his days, had apparently been totally
lost sight of, till a few years ago the author of these remarks found
means to intimate its occurrence on these coasts to P. J. Selby,
Esq.; thus confirming the accuracy of the Bishop's information,
and showing, in consequence, that the limits usually assigned to
the distribution of the chough in this country are erroneous.
Rock-pigeons occur in great abundance in the sea eaves, &c.
along the coast; and, owing to the neighbourhood of St Abb's
Head, well known as one of the principal breeding stations of sea
fowl in the island, the variety of sea gulls and other aquatic birds
frequenting the coast is very great. The goatsucker, or night-
jar, (Caprimulgus Europeus), has also been frequently shot. *
   Game is tolerably abundant: the usual kinds being the red
grous, black-cock, partridge, pheasant, woodcock, dottrel, &C.
   Reptiles, &c.-In the woods and moors we meet with the adder
or viper (Vipera communis) in considerable abundance, and occa-
sionally, also, the blind worm (Anguis fragilis) is observed in the
heaths and upland coppices. Three species of eft also occur: viz.
Triton palustris, T. aquaticus, and T. vulgaris. The Lacerta
agilis, or nimble lizard, is occasionally seen in the sunny heaths, and
the natter-jack (Bufo rubeta), we have seen ofte specimen of.
   Botany.-In this department of natural history there is also con-
derable interest, partly from the variety of natural scenery and
elevation, and partly from the quantity of ground still in a state
of nature. The deans are all interesting botanical stations. The
shore also furnishes some interesting plants; and Penmanshiel
wood contributes its numbers. Of all these, however, Dunglass
Dean is certainly the richest and most interesting: a glen of
such uncommon beauty and picturesque effect, that it never fails
to excite in all who visit it the greatest admiration. This beau-
tiful valley commences in the parish of Oldhamstocks, forming,
for about two miles, the western boundary of this parish, and
presenting throughout this distance a succession of scenes the

<FOOTNOTE>A few days ago a very fine specimen of the bittern (Ardea stellaris) was shot
near Old Cambus.


