
     of Lecropt.

country, and are highly ornamental and useful.  In this pa-
rish there are 10 orchards, 5 larger and 5 less, which, in fa-
vourable seasons, yield a considerable quantity of apples, pears,
and plumbs.  There is also a large natural wood, mostly of
oak, which is cut twice in 24 years, and affords a plentiful
and occasional supply of timber for the various purposes of
husbandry.  The only timber trees in the Carse are faugh,
which grow to a large size; and, when allowed to arrive at
full maturity, the red is durable, and admits of a most beau-
tiful polish.

   Bees.-Several persons in this parish have propagated bees
with great success.  The numerous orchards, the extensive
plantations of trees, which abound with the saccharine juice,
the large fields of beans, whose grateful flavour embalms the
very air in the Carse, and the up-lands adorned with varie-
gated blossoms of clover and daisies and furze and broom,
afford a plentiful supply to these industrious insects; and the
warmth of the Bank, so well sheltered from the N. and run-
ning from E. to W. through the whole extent of the parish,
affords them that cover which suits the delicacy of their
frame, and cherishes their unceasing industry.

<FOOTNOTE>

rance he succeeded at last in carrying a small rivulet about half
a mile below ground, in wooden pipes, which consist 4 of wooden
boards, 1 foot in breadth, joined at right angles, and hooped
with iron.  In the space of 4 or 5 years he cleared, by the aid
of this stream, about 20 acres down to the clay.  This land
produces fine crops of oats, and, by being properly wrought,
and turned up frequently to the enriching influence of the air,
there is no doubt of its carrying any other species of crops,
known in the clay land around it.  But, to the unspeakable loss
of his family, this ingenious and industrious man, whose name
was MURDOCH, was lost about 2 years ago, within a few yards
of his own house, in passing the Forth; and since his death, the
improvements on the moss have gone on but slowly.


