
274                         ARGYLESHIRE.

leading along the eastern base of the range of hills which occupies
the space between Lochfine and Lochcaolisport, and is known by
the name of the forest, or hill of Liabh Gaoil.  Before the open-
ing of this road, the district of Kintyre was quite insulated from
the rest of Argyleshire.  The only path by which any communi-
cation betweem the two places could be maintained, was almost
quite impassable.  It ran along hills and dales, which were inter-
sected by water courses without any bridges.  In summer, thew
waters were fordable, but in winter the attempt to cross them was
both difficult and dangerous.
   Who Lliabh Gaoil road, which was so useful before the intro-
duction of steam, and conferred such a boon on the country ge-
nerally, and on Kintyre particularly, was obtained through the in-
strumentality of Sheriff Campbell, one of the ancestors of the
present family of Stonefield.  The line was surveyed by an Eng-
lish engineer.  It is said that he attempted to travel over the
ground ; but the rocks were so precipitous, the ferns, so gigantic,
the Englishman so unwieldy, and so unaccustomed to travel such
rough grounds, that, after much tumbling and scrambling, he was
obliged to betake himself to his boat, and finish his survey by row-
ing along, the shore.  On arriving at Barmore House, the resi-
dence of Sheriff Campbell, he remarked to the Sheriff, that it
was quite, a hopeless thing to attempt opening a road along the
projected line, that it was an undertaking, fit for the Empress Ca-
therine of Russia, and not ift for private individuals.  The Sheriff
ordered his clerk or treasurer to pay the English surveyor for his,
trouble, and, with that determination and resolution which so
much characterized that gentleman, the Sheriff set about the
mighty task of opening the Lliablh Gaoil road, and persevered till
it was finished.  It is one of the best lined roads in the county;
and, whether for the purpose of pleasure or of utility, it is one of
the most interesting roads imaginable.  Since the introduction of
steam, it is now much less frequented than formerly ; but still, it is
extremely serviceable, as forming the only inland channel of com-
munication between the peninsula of Kintyre and the other parts
of Argyleshire.
   Market town.-There are no market towns in the parish.  At
Ardrissaig, the eastern entrance of the Crinan Canal, there is a
village of considerable size.  The village of Tarbert is partly si-
tuated within the parish.  In this village, the inhabitants of the
south end of the parish can be supplied with such articles as they
                               3


