
	10                       BANFFSHIRE.

	nivalis, snow-flake,) seen occasionally about the rocks in winter.
	The field-lark (Alauda arvensis.) Cole titmouse (Parus ater.)
	Blue titmouse (Parus caruleus) Bullfinch (Pyrrhula vulgaris.)
	Green grosbeak (Coccothraustes chloris, provincially green linnet.)
	House sparrow (Pyrgita domestica.) Chaffinch (Fringilla calebs.)
	Brown linnet (Fringilla cannabina, provincially lintie.) Mountain
	finch (Fringilla montifringilla.)  Siskin (Fringilla spinus; a win-
	ter visitant.) Goldfinch (Fringilla carduelis.) Starling (Sturnus
	vulgaris) sometimes appears in flocks on the coast.  Magpie (Pica
	caudata.)  Raven (Corvus corax,) breeds near the bridge of Alva.
	Carrion crow (Corvus corone.)  Hooded-crow (Corvus corni.)
	Jackdaw (Corvus monedula.) Rook (Corvus frugilegus.) Com-
	mon creeper (Certhia familiaris.) Hoopoe (Upupa epops) rare.
	The cuckoo (Cuculus canorus.)
	  2. Waders.-The following occur: The heron (Ardea cinerea.)
	The bittern (Ardea stellaris.) A beautiful specimen of this now rare
	bird was shot in 1831, a few miles from Banff, and is now in the mu-
	seum of the Institution.  The crake or corncrake (Ortygometra crex.)
	Common water hen (Gallinula chloropus.) Curlew (Numenius arqua-
	ta) is sometimes to be seen among the rocks by the sea side.  The
	whimbrel (Numenius phaopus) has been heard in this parish fly-
	ing overhead, being easily distinguishable by its singular notes;
	but has never been observed on the ground, nor as a regular vi-
	sitant of the parish.  Throughout this part of the country, ge-
	nerally, it is much less frequent than its congener the curlew.  The
	woodcock (Scolopax rusticola.) The great snipe (Scolopax major.)
	A snipe, described, by the gentlenan who shot it in this. parish a
	few years ago, as much larger than any he had ever seen, is sup-
	posed to have be6n a specimen of this rather rare bird.  The com-
	mon snipe (Scolopax gallinago) is decreasing fast, in this and the
	adjoining parishes, in consequence of the improvements in agri-
	culture, and especially the draining of marshy and boggy ground.
	Jack-snipe (Scolopax gallinula.)*  Lapwing (Vanellus cristatus,
	here called the teuchet.)  Gray plover (Squatarola einerea.) San-
	derling(Calidris arenaria.)  Golden plover (Charadrius pluvialis)
	descends to the sea shore in storms. Ringed plover (Charadrius
	hiaticula.  provincially sanny laverock.) Oyster-catcher (Hama-
	topus ostralegus.)

        <FOOTNOTE>Dunlin (Tringa alpina) in this part of the country called the dorbie.  Purple
	sandpiper) (Tringa striata) has bow observed on the rocks near the harbour, dur-
	ing spring.  Not common.  Figured by Bewick as the knot.



