
16                          FORFARSHIRE.

north of the town to the height of 525 feet, and which commands
a beautiful and extensive view in every direction. Upon the top of
this hill are the remains of a fortified post, and the ditch is still vi-
sible.  From the quantity of human bones and pieces of armour
which of late have been dug up in trenching the adjoining ground,
it appears to have been a place of considerable strength in the
early history of Scotland.
	Battle of Pitalpy.--There is a tradition noticed in Maule's His-
tory of the Picts, that, when Brude or Brudas had encamped with
the Pictish force on the Tothelbrow, in the parish of Strathmartine,
about four miles to the northward of the Law, the Scottish army
was encamped on the Law, and that a dreadful battle ensued in
the plain; the Picts being instigated with a desire of revenging
the wrongs committed upon them the former year by Alpine, who
had entered Lothian, the territory of the Picts, and perpetrated
the greatest cruelties; and the Scots being no less disposed to de-
fend their King and country from the attacks of an exasperated
enemy. After a desperate struggle, Alpine was conquered, taken
prisoner, and beheaded at Pitalpy in 834.
	About a mile and a half north-west from Dundee, on the
northern boundary of the parish, upon a small mount, stands a stone
known by the name of the King's Cross, in the centre of which a
hole is hewn ten inches by eight, and ten inches deep. In this
aperture the royal standard of Alpine, the 68th Scottish king, was
fixed on that day on which he fought the above-mentioned battle,
and fell. The spot is called Pitalpine. Holinshed relates, that
it was called Bas-Alpine, from the head of Alpine having been
struck off at the place; and Buchanan adds, that the head was car-
ried in triumph to Abernethy, the capital of the Picts.
	Vesthgds of Royalty.--During the reigns of the Scottish kings
Dundee was one of their places of residence; and that part of the
town where the palace stood retains, till the present day, the name
of Whitehall. Upon the front of the building Are the arms of
Scotland, blazoned in the time of Charles II.; and, in the entry
or close is a long stone with the national arms, surmounted by an
imperial crown, having the date 1588, with this inscription, "Obay
ze King, King James VI."
	When the churches were repaired a few years ago, the back part
of the throne or king's seat was found in a small apartment, for-
merly used as a prison for delinquents, having engraven on it the
ensigns of royalty. It is said to have been laid aside when the
		          	3


