
     Statistical Account

and stands in much need of an augmentation, from the late
great advance upon all the necessary articles of life.  The
King is patron.-The public school has a salary of L. 100
Scots, with a free house and garden.  It is situated in the
centre of the parish, and very convenient for the scholars.
The school wages are, in general, for reading, 1 s. 6 d.;
writing, 2 s.; arithmetic, 2 s. 6 d.; and Latin, 3 s. the quar-
ter, and 10 s. 6 d. for a course of book-keeping.  There
are about 40 or 50 scholars in winter, and about 30 or 40
in summer.  The people are very attentive to give their
children as much education as their circumstances will ad-
mit.-There are only 9 persons upon the poors roll at pre-
sent; sometimes there is a greater number, and seldom or
never a less.  They are supported by the collections made
at the church, at the time of the sacrament, and what is re-
ceived for the use of the mortcloth, which, at an average,
may amount to about nearly L. 10 Sterling yearly.  This
is divided among them quarterly, in proportion to their
different degrees of necessity.  They are allowed to beg
through the parish, but none of them without its bounda-
ries.  We have no mortified funds for the support of the
poor.  There is a small sum lent out at interest, which was
saved in favourable times, which makes an additional
help.  Should the number of the poor increase, there will
be an indispensable necessity of applying to the heritors, in
terms of law, for their maintenance.  This parish is pester-
ed with Irish vagrants and sturdy beggars, through all the
seasons of the year.  The charity given these is extremely
detrimental to the native poor of the parish.  The clamour-
ous vagrants impose upon the humane and charitable spirit of
the people, by their fictitious and tragical tales of misery;
and spend the alms they receive, by getting themselves
drunk with whisky.  In their own societies, over their
cups, they boast that they can earn, by the common trade


