
150                         FIFESHIRE.

Mr Ferguson of Raith, the price is 6s. 5d. The Cluny coal, though
the most distant, is generally preferred. The price of lime at the
different quarries is from 2s. to 2s. 4d. per boll old corn firlot, and
the quantity sold annually is very considerable.
   Botany.-The only plants that may be called rare are Campa-
nula rapunculoides, Listera ovata, and Drosera rotundifolia. The
first of these is to be found on the farm of Balwearle, the others on
the farm of Torbain.
   The trees most commonly to be met with are, the oak, beech,
sycamore, chesnut, spruce, ash, walnut, elm, larch, Scotch fir, &C.
all of which thrive well, except the larch, which seems im atient of
the soil, and soon becomes chaffed, and sometimes even rotten at
the heart, against its thirtieth year. In the Raith plantations, all these
kinds of trees and many more are to be seen in great beauty and
perfection. Immediately in front of the mansion-house, there is
a fine beech, which measures in circumference 14 feet; on the
south side of the house, there are two chesnuts likewise of large
size and dimensions. The girth of the one is 11.5 feet, and of the
other 9.5.  A hawthorn, which stands on the east side of the gar-
den, is well worthy of notice, being of great age, size, and beauty.
Near the same place, and about twenty yards from the approach, is
to be seen what is considered the purest purple beech in the county.
Evergreens of every variety thrive well about Raith, particularly the
Portugal laurels, many of which form fine trees of 5 feet in girth
of bole and upwards. The whole of the plantations there, are under
a good system of management, both as to pruning and thinning,
and the thinnings, though seldom large, are readily purchased for
the excellent quality of the timbor.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-The antiquities of the parish are few and easily
told. On Connie Hill, or that eminence on which the Raith Tower
stands, there have been found, at different places, several rude stone
coffins, similar to what have been found in other parts of Scotland.
Some urns have also been dug up containing human bones. On
the part where the Tower stands, there was a small artificial mound,
on removing which it evidently appeared to have been a burnt mould
and many fragments of deers-horns were found in it. From seve-
ral appearances, this hill is supposed to have been in former days a
military station, or at all events a place of national rendezvous.
The ruins of the tower of Balwearie, ancients the Droperty of the fa-
mous wizard. Sir Michael Scott, are still preserved. From what re-
                            3


