
704                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

dated 28th December 1822; which, with subsequent warrants af-
terwards granted, empowered them to erect the present building
from their accumulated funds at an expense of L. 40,000. This
splendid edifice is from a plan of Mr Playfair, and the last finish
has lately been given to it by surmounting it with a statue of
Her Majesty Queen Victoria, executed by Mr Steel. The
building includes a grand gallery for the collection of casts; apart-
ments for carrying on the business of the two Boards of manufac-
tures and of fisheries; a suit of apartments where the Royal Insti-
tution for the Encouragement of the Fine Arts has its gallery of
ancient pictures; and apartments for the meeting of the Royal So-
ciety of Edinburgh, which two last Societies are tenants under
the Board.
   The funds under the control of the Commissioners amount to
L. 4170, 11s. 6d. of annual income. The annual payments of
money granted to the Royal Institution, the Horticultural Society,
&c. at present amount to L. 1000, to which falls to be added the
compensation annuities still payable to the retired stampmasters,
amounting to L. 695, 6s., and the feu-duty of the institution,
L. 125, making in all L. 1820, 6s. 3d., leaving of disposable in-
come L. 2350, 5s. 3d. This sum was expended, 1. In premiums
for manufactures annually, L.700; 2. Salaries of the three mas-
ters of the school of design, and the lecturers on pictorial anatomy,
L. 700; 3. The official salaries charged on the board, L. 671.
The remainder is disposed of in the purchase of casts, and objects
connected with the school of design, and other contingencies.
   The premiums granted at the public expositions of manufac-
tures were intended to encourage new manufactures, or the intro-
duction from abroad of such as had no previous existence in this
country-to foster such manufactures as were inferior in Scotland,
into a greater degree of excellence. But so soon as any of these
arrived at a certain degree of perfection and prosperity, the Com-
missioners considered it to be their duty to leave them to their own
efforts.
   The premiums were awarded by a Committee, which called in the
aid of experienced tradesmen, acquainted with the different kinds of
goods; the whole being conducted in the most impartial manner.
But the Commissioners, after much considerations and long ex-
perience, have been for a length of time so satisfied that the most
effectual method of encouraging manufactures is to improve the
taste in design, by furnishing means for educating pupils com-
                              3


