
     222                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

     own right, was the nineteenth representative of the family who held
     the title, and which remained with Her Ladyship for the long
     period of 72 years, 7 months, and 13 days; she having died in
     London on 29th January 1839.  Her Ladyship was succeeded in
     the Earldom of Sutherland, by her eldest son, the present George
     Granville, Duke of Sutherland, K.G., who, thus, is the twentieth
     Earl of Sutherland, in direct lineal descent, from the first Earl of
     this long ennobled family.
        The Duke and Earl of Sutherland is descended, in the pater-
     nal line, from several ancient and noble families of England : Ist,
     From Sir Allan Gower of Stittenham,-an estate still held by his
     Grace,-who was Sberiff of York at the period of the Conquest,
     (1066); and, according to others, from William Fitz-Guhyer of
     Stittenham, temp.  H. 11.  A. D. 1167. 2d, From Richard Leve-
     son of Willenhall, in the county of Stafford, who was grandfather
     to Richard Leveson, te mp. Ed. I., A. D. 1289. 3d, His Grace is
     also, through his paternal descent, the representative of the Gran -
     villes, Earls of Bath, and, as such, is descended from Robert, the
     youngest son of Rollo, first Duke of Normandy.  This descent is
     stated in the first patent of peerage granted to the family by
     Charles II., which bears, " Whereby he justly claims his descent
     from the youngest son of the Duke of Normandy, as we ourselves
     do from the eldest." This descent makes his Grace Count of
     Corbeil, Baron Torigny, and De Granville.
       In his father's maternal line, his Grace is  descended from the
     Princess Mary, second daughter of Henry VII. and, as such,
     would have been a claimant to the throne, bad the will of Henry
     VIII been carried into effect, (Hallam's Constitutional History of
     England, Vol. i. p. 316.) In the same line of descent, his Grace
     is one of the claimants to the ancient barony (in fee) of Lord
     Strange of Knockyn, now in abeyance among the representatives
     of Fernando, fifth Earl of Derby.
     His Grace's father and mother had two descents in common;
     the one through two females, descendants of Richard de Abrincis,
     Earl of.  Chester, who married respectively into the Derby and
     Bruce families; and through the Scotch line, the late Duke of
     Sutherland was descended from a daughter of William the Lion
     of Scotland, through the De Ross of Hamlake.

     March 1841.


