
     of Newton upon Ayr.

   The greastest part of the ground, belonging to the communi-
ty, is a dead level, lying to the east, and north-east of the
town.-The soil is a light blowing sand, so that the land, a-
long the coast to the north east, wears a gloomy appearance.
It might be meliorated, by rearing plantations of Scots fir, and
of the larix, but, above all, of the pineafter, which is called
the maritime pine, from its thriving so near the sea.  No du-
rable inclosures can be made but at a great expence.  The
more inland part is rather of a better soil, with a stratum of
moss on the surface.  It was once a morass, but was drained
many years ago at some expence.  By this drain, the water is
conveyed, that serves the mill, belonging to the community.-
A plan of all their grounds was drawn up sometimes ago by
the Town-Council; and another was lately executed by the
company, who rent their coal.  The arable ground consists  of
above 200 acres, and the common about 150.  The whole is
valued in the cess-books at L. 117 Scots, and the property is
estimated to be worth in all L. 4000 sterling.  From the na-
ture of the soil, which is mostly a bed of blowing sand, to a
considerable depth, the ground is far from being fertile; it re-
quires constant manuring to render it moderately productive.
The best and most profitable crop is rye-grass and clover.
Oats and bear are the grains commonly sown. The feed-time
for oats, is from the middle of March to the middle of April:
and that for barley, from the 20th of April, to the 25th of May,
It is thought, that the inhabitants sow their grain much too
late  Rye is sometimes cultivated with advantage; but this
crop impoverishes the ground.-Sea-weed is found to an-
swer as manure; but the quantity cast on the shore is not
great.-The soil, in tolerable seasons, produces excellent
potatoes.-The whole parish is open and unsheltered.  No
a tree to be found, and no thorn hedges of any growth, ow-
ing to the violence of the westerly winds, which often blow
     VOL. II. L 1


