
282                          ARGYLESHIRE.

an arm of the sea called Lochnanceal, on the west side of Mull.
It discharges as much water as the Forsa.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The general direction of the strata
of rocks is north-west to south-east.  Their dip, for the most
part, is 10&deg; north.  In many places, the strata are deranged by
veins or dikes, which have a dip of 45&deg; north.  The rocks are prin-
cipally trap, sandstone, and a coarse kind of limestone.  These
all enter into the composition of the hills, and they are also to be
met with in plains of any extent.  Granite is found but it occurs
only in blocks near the shore.  Whence these have been trans-
ported, and by what agency, are subjects, regarding which it would
be difficult to form a conjecture.
   The fossil oraganic remains which are found, are of the testaceous
order.  They occur in limestone.  The minerals found in the
rocks are, rock-crystal, calc-spar, and fluor-spar.  The alluvial de-
posits are rolled blocks mixed with gravel, sand, clay, and peat.
   The various soils, in low situations, seem to have been trans-
ported from the neighbouring hills,  There appears to have been
no affinity in any of the soils, in their deposition, for any particular
kind of rock as a substratum; for, whether they be gravelly, sandy,
clayey, or loamy, they located themselves on all the kinds of rock
indisicriminately.  Though there is a considerable quantity of
loamy soil throughout the parish, gravelly soil and peat abound
most.  In alluvial deposition of loam and peat in other parts of
the country, the loamy soil is deposited, in general, near the
shore; and behind it, with a higher elevation, is found the peat;
but in this parish, frequent instances of a deviation from this order
occur.  The loamy soil often appears at a distance from the sea,
and on an elevated bed; whereas the peat often forms the mar-
gin of the sea, being separated from it only by a narrow dike of
trap or coarse limestone.
   Zoology.-Though red deer are not so plentiful in the parish
as they were fifty years ago, still there is a good number of them.
As an end has been put to deer stalking, and as all the proprietors
have shown a desire of late to prevent their extermination, they
are at present rapidly on the increase.  During the rutting season,
which is about the middle of September, the hart lays aside his
native shyness, and assumes a fierceness which renders it unsafe to
approach him.  A few years ago a young man, in going through a
him.  Fortunately a strong tree or standard was near him which


