
				RATTRAY.                           247

	contains 15 acres, the greater part of it outfield; and in whole it
	might let for L. 20.  The living of Rattray is one of the small
	stipends, augmented by Government to L. 150 per annum.  There
	is a dissenting meeting in the parish, formerly of the Antiburgher
	connection, but now belonging to the United Associate Synod.
	Their chapel will contain 340 sitters, but is partly unoccupied.
	The stipend arises from the seat-rents and collections, and is said
	to be from L. 80 to L. 100 a-year.  Dissenters attend well on
	public worship; and the members of the Established Church are
	not deficient in this praiseworthy conduct.  The average number
	of communicants in the parish church may be 500; the collec-
	tions throughout the year L. 15.  Since 1775, there has been an
	assessment on the parish for the support of the poor, which has
	had the effect of diminishing the collections, but could not now be
	easily dispensed with.  The number of paupers on the list generally
	exceeds a dozen; and instead of considering it degrading, every
	one is eager to prefer his claim as fast as he can.  The average an-
	nual amount of assessments is L. 45: of church collections, L. 15.
	   The number of families in the parish attending the chapels of
	Dissenters or SeCeders is 65.
	   Education.- With regard to education, it may be said that there
	are principally two schools for that important end; the Parish
	school in Old Rattray, and a private one in New Rattray.  The
	parochial teacher has the highest salary allowed by law of L. 34,
	besides the dues of baptisms and marriages, which must amount
	to some pounds more.  His fees may amount to L. 15 per an-
	num.  The private teacher depends entirely on the fruits of his
	industry.  The numbers attending each school are nearly the
	same,-upwards of 40: the wages for beginners are 2s. per quar-
	ter; 2s. 6d. for reading and writing; and 3s. for arithmetic and
	Latin.  Both masters profess to teach Latin, arithmetic, writing,
	and English.  I have reason to believe, that they are not defici-
	ent in attention and diligence.  Besides these, there are schools
	on a lower scale kept by females, chiefly for young girls; and some
	occasionally kept by males for the benefit of those in the remote
	parts of the parish.  Perhaps, there are none of five years of age
	but have begun to learn to read; and none farther advanced but are
	taught both to read and write.  The blessing of education is brought
	within the reach of all classes in society. If they are poor, the
	kirk-session pay for them; if they are in a better situation, they
	can easily furnish the expense from their own industry.  They


