
34                           KINCARDINESHIRE.

written in a neat old hand accurately kept, and strict discipline
observed. No separate cash-book was used till February 1762;
but collections and disbursements were entered in words at length
on the same page with minutes, and accounts kept in Scottish mo-
ney till January 5, 1772. *
        Antiquities.-That Garvock had, at a former period, been a
forest or hunting-park well stocked with deer, as tradithon has con-
stantly banded down, appears highly probable; for the remains of
a substantial fence along the north-west side of the parish, called
the Deer-dyke, are well remembered by old people; although they
have now nearly all disappeared under the plough.
	In a hollow on the east side of the parish, is said to be the place
where the sheriff was boiled. The tradition is this, and affords a
sad specimen of the barbarity of the times of James I., about 1420.
Melville, the laird of Glenbervie, and sheriff of the Mearns, had,
by a strict exercise of his authority, rendered himself obnoxious to
the surrounding barons, who having teased the King by repeated
complaints against him,-at last, in a fit of impatience, the King
said to Barclay, laird of Mathers, who had come with another com-
plaint, "Sorrow gin that sherff were sodden and supped in brie."-
"As your Majesty pleases," said Barclay, and immediately with-
drew-went and assembled his neighbours, the lairds of Lauriston,
Arbuthnott, Pitarrow, and Halkerton-appointed a great hunting
match in the forest of Garvock, to which they kindly invited the
devoted Melville. And having privately got ready a large kettle
of boiling water in a retired place, they decoyed unsuspect-

<FOOTNOTE>The following are specimens:-
          Garvock Kirk, Dec. 24, 1721 .-"(Short abstract of 2 minuter.) Mary Douglass,
at Hill of Johnston, delatd, summon'd, and appeared before the session for scolding
and cursing her neighbour-wife on Sabbath morning-confessed scolding and calling
names, and in her passion did imprecate on herself, but denied cursing her neigh-
bour.-Two witness examined on outh, confirmed her confession.-Condemned to
stand before the congregation next Lord's day."
          Garvock Kirk, July 20, 1725.-"Geo. Charles in Sootywells, delated, summoned,
and appeared before the session, and for being drunk in the parish of St Cyrus,-
signed an obligation to pay L. 4 Scots, 'toties quotics,' into the poor's box, if he
should be drunk again."
          Garvock Kirk, June 30, 1726.-"The poor's box was inspected, and found to con-
tain twentie four pounds Scots in doyts."
          Garvock Kirk, April 8, 1744.-"The minister lectured and preacht. Day being
stormy the people did not frequently convene. Collected five shillings."
          "Disbursed James Craik, in a strait, one pound two shillings.
          Garvock Kirk, Nov. 8, 1745.-"The minister lectured and preacht. The troubles
of the countrie by the increasing Rebellion, having from many places brought up
strangdrs, the collection was three pounds, three shillings Scots."
          Garvock Kirk. Jan. 26, 1746.-"The minister being carried off prisoner be the
Jacobite partie in arms, there was no sermons here."     -
          Garvock Kirk, Feb. 23, 1746.-"The minister, being attending His Royal High-
ness William Duke of Cumberland, there was sermons here."



