
8                             SELKIRKSHIRE.

gallon imperial, half meal, half barley ;  with an allowance of L. 10
for sacramental purposes.  The average amount of stipend for the
last ten years, converted to money, is L. 302, 2s. 2 1/2d. per annum.
The number of families attending the Established Church is 220.
The average number of communicants 650.
   There is no other place of worship in the parish, except the Seces-
sion meeting-house, which is in the town, and was built in 1759.  It be-
longs to the Associate Synod.  The stipend, with an allowance in-
cluded for the rent of a dweeling-house, sacramental expences, &c.
amounts to L. 150 per annum, and is raised solely from the seat
rents.  670 sittings were let for the present year ;  and the number
of families belonging to the congregation may be 335.  From 15
to 20 poor people are accommodated with seats gratis.
   There are two Societies in the parish connected with religion,--
one Friendly, composed of females, and the other Missionary ;  both
including indiscriminately members of the Establishment and Seces-
sion.  They are poor.  There is likewise a Temperance Society,
not in a very flourishing condition.
   Education.--The total number of schools is seven ;  one of which
is parochial, one burgh, two others endowed, and three unendowed.
There are also two Sunday evening schools, taught and superintend-
ed by the clergymen of both persuasions.  In the grammar or paro-
chial school, are taught, besides the ordinary branches, Latin,
Greek, French, Italian, astronomy, mathematics, and drawing.
This school has always borne a high character, and is now under
the charge of a most able and accomplished master.  Three of the
other schools are taught by females, and afford the usual branches
of female education.  The salary of the grammar schoolmaster, in-
cluding an allowance for house and garden, is L. 50 per annum, and
he may receive L. 80 per annum of fees.  The salary of the burgh
schoolmaster is L. 32.  One of the females has, since 1813, received
L. 30 per annum from the town of Selkirk ;  and another at Newark
L. 15, with house, coals, &c. since 1810, from the Duke of Buccleuch.
Education is very cheap.  These schools seem fully adequate for the
population, few of whom cannot read and write.  As schools have in-
creased, and particularly since the commencement of the Sunday
schools, a great change for the better has taken place in the morals
of the young.
   Libraries.--There are in the parish two very good subscription
libraries, and one parochial.  The books are of the best description,
and much read.


