
             174                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

	     acted; particularly, many barbarous and inhuman murders and
             assassinations of persons of innocence and integrity" The kirk-
             session of Wick was vigilant and energetic in repressing wicked-
             ness of all kinds.   Amongst its elders were generally several ma-
             gistrates, and it exercised a mixture of civil and ecclesiastical,
             authority.  On August 31, 1701, " the session taking into their
             consideration that tbere are a great many abuses committed, in and
             about the town of Wick, on the Sabbath day, did and hereby do,
             for the preventing of which, appoint and ordain that two elders
             do search the town in time of Divine service and after the same,
             and make report of irregular persons to the session." Similar
             appointments are often recorded ; and the most unremitting vigi-
             lance, was exercised.  In September 1701, two women are charged
             " for gathering pease in time of sermon ;" a man for " beating
             his wife;" and, John Naughty " for entertaining persons drink-
             ing in time of sermon." The session direct the town of Wick
             " to put up ane cock-stool." " Alexander Larnoch and his wife
             are appointed to stand publicly, and to pay 20 shillings Scots for
             the crime of cursing;" and unto John Johnston the session " offer
             the alternative either to find surety to pay 8 punds, or otherwise
             to be liable to corporal punishment." The latter, " afterwards pro-
             duced John Sinclair, joiner, who hereby enacts himself cautioner
             that he shall pay 8 punds at three terms, namely, 4 merks at Can-
             delmas; 4 merks at Whitsunday ; and 4 merks at Lammas 1702.
             May 25th, 1702, Donald M'Curchie, shoemaker in Wick, who
             bad been guilty both of gross and of contumelious conduct, was
             ordained by the session " to be carried from the kirk of Wick
             to the cross, With a paper-hood bearing the inscription of his
             crime, and to sit there two hours in the stocks with the hood on
             his head, and thereafter" to give security that he shall pay his
             mulct, and submit to the customary discipline of the church.  The
             pernicious and most reprehensible practice of levying "mulcts"
             upon delinquents, by sessional authority, continued till of late
             years. The people carne to regard these fines as just the price of
             sin; and this feeling is net even yet altogether extinct.
                 Wick is the county town.  The sheriff and other customary
             courts are held here. The sheriff-court was held at Thurso for
             a long period previously to 1828; but in that year, Wick, after a
             protracted  litigation, obtained a decision of the Court of Session,
             declaring Wick to be the head-burgh of the shire of Caithness,
             and ordaining that the stated sheriff-courts must be held and the

					3


