
     of Glenorchay and Inishail.

Hitherto, no assessments, (such as the law authorises in urgent
cases,) have been exacted.  Such of the poor as can, and
choose, are allowed to beg, without restriction.  And, in-
deed, whilst, the indigent are so many, and the funds to sup-
port them so disproportionate to their wants, it would be
cruel and oppressive to controul them.  It is but justice to
the humanity of the people of the parish to declare, that they
never refuse to extend their charity to the needy mendicant,
whether a stranger or a native.  About 20 years ago; a stranger,
with his family, came to reside in the parish.  By accident, his
house and his all were destroyed by fire.  A collection was made.
for them at the church doors, which amounted to 21 L. and 3
pence sterling.  No heritors were resident at the time.  On
this occasion, even the cottage widow, cheerfully, "threw her
"two mites, into the treasury of the temple*."

   Fuel.-The fuel, principally used in the parish, is peat.
The present partial and impolitic duty on coals, together with the

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is a just remark, that "the proper regulation of the poor, as it is one of
"the most important, so it is also one of the most difficult circumstances of pe-
"lice that a scanty supply, or a rigid execution of the penal statutes against
"mendicants, compels many miserable creatures to suffer all the wrethchoeness
of poverty, while a liberal proration, indefermanately bestowed, encourages
idleness, and ultimately terminates in profligacy, and vice.." From a peru-
sal of the Scotch acts of parliament relating to the favor, it appears that no
pauper has a legal claim to be maintained by any parish, unlessw it was bonus
there, or had his residense in it for the last 3 years, previous to specification.
In the year 1781, one Waddle, a day-labourer, came to the parish of Hutton.
having in his family, a son of wards of 20 years of age, who had been paralytic
from his birth.  He applied to have this son upon the poor's roll, but was re-
lured No leg 1 methods being taken to remove Waddle out of the parish, he
continued in it for thice years after; then applied to the sheriff, to have his son
inrolled for a weekly supply from the parish fund.  This the sheriff ordered,
and the Court of Session affirmed sentence.
   ++Dr. Macfarlan's inquiries concerning the Poor.  II Acts of Sederunt.


