
		        COUNTRY OF HADDINGTON.		369

in making beneficent provision for the extensive existence and
enjoyment of his animated creation.
   Agriculture.-The Lammermuir-hills, that constitute the south-
ern and higher district of the county, are principally devoted to
the breeding of sheep, part being black-faced, but the great pro-
portion are of the Cheviot breed, which are generally preferred
on account of the superior value of the wool. The native stock
are well-known as excellent thrivers, and generally sell at compa-
ratively high prices, to be fed on grass or turnip in lower districts
of the kingdom.  Much care has been bestowed by the store mas-
ters on the improvement of their stock, in respect to both wool and
carcass, and the recent high prices of the former certainly hold
out the most flattering encouragement for every exertion in that
direction.  Salving the sheep is invariably practised throughout
the district, and it is probable that careful experiment may yet
lead to the use of more valuable materials than any that have as
yet beep employed.
   East Lothian is an agricultural district entirely in the strictest
sense of the word, and has been long celebrated for the skill and
success with which its husbandry has been conducted. The atten-
tion of its tenantry have long been steadily directed to the improve-
ment of what is termed the alternate system of husbandry, as the
practice best suited to both their soil and climate. At the same
time, the fattening of stock of all descriptions for the butcher forms
an important item in that system, and now constitutes a regular
part of the economy of every well conducted farm. Comparatively
few sheep or cattle, however, have hitherto been bred in the dis-
trict, nor is there a single variety of any one description of our do-
mestic animals, that owes its origin as a distinct breed to the
country.
   Of cattle bred for feeding either on grass or turnip, some are
of the short-hormed breed, but the greater proportion are from
the Highlands and the north-eastern counties of Scotland. The
sheep fed on grass are generally ewes, which are bought in the
autumn, with a view to have lambs in the spring, when both are
fattened and sold off during the summer. A considerable num-
ber of black-faced Highland wedders used to be fed on turnips
annually, but of late that kind of stock has in some measure, been
set aside and half-breed hogs fed lid their stead. These are ge-
nerally from Cheviot ewes by Leicester rams, and are common-
ly sold early in summer after being clipt, the recent high prices of


