
				SOUTH UIST.                        187

	the sea on the east, and west side of this parish abounds with
	cod, ling, and other kinds of fish, the inhabitants, from the
	causes above stated, cannot avail themselves of this branch of
	industry; and no fishing to any extent is carried on in the pa-
	rish, except in the southern extremity, by a few of the Boisdale
	tenants, who, at an average, send about 28 tons of cod and ling
	annually to market.  Since the Government bounty has been with-
	drawn, the fishing has considerably decreased. But such is the
	wretchedness of the labouring poor generally in some places, that
	this bounty, instead of being serviceable to the poor fishermen,
	went to the pockets of those persons who call themselves fish-
	curers; and even now, the poor fishermen are compelled to sell
	the fish to their landlord, or the factor on the Boisdale estate, at a
	diminished price.
 	   About thirty years ago, there was a considerable fishing carried.
	on in dog-fish and sun-fish or basking-shark.  But since the bounty
	on the oil of these fishes has been withdrawn, this branch of in-
	dustry has been altogether discontinued.
 	   The most important and useful shell-fish on the shores of this pa-
	rish, is the cockle.  It is found in greatabundance in the sands between
	Benbecula and North Uist, and between South Uist and Benbecu-
	la.  Great crowds of people, with horses and baskets or creels, are
	seen every summer, but especially in years of scarcity, picking up
	this shell-fish, as a most useful article of food, upon which, with a
	little milk, and sometimes without that addition, the poor people, in
	years of scarcity, principally subsist for two months.  The shells,
	which make excellent lime for building, and particularly for plaster-
	ing, are sold at 4d. to 6d. per barrel.  Besides cockles, tbere is plenty
	of razor or spout-fish, limpets, mussels, welks or periwinkles, lob-
	sters, and crabs.  Oysters are only found on the shore,of Loch Skip-
	port, and, being rock oysters chiefly, they are large and delicious.
    	   Botany.--It may be observed, that a botanist would find every
	little to attract his attention in this parish, and nothing which is
	not also found in the other Hebridean islands.  The grass on the
	west side of the hills is of fine quality, and well calculated to yield
	milk and to fatten cattle in summer; but from its fineness, melts
	away in winter with rain and frost.  Owing to the number of small
	horses necessarily kept by the tenantry for carrying their peats,
	kelp, and sea-ware for tillage, &c. their cows are not so well pas
	tured as to be a profitable concern to the owners.



