
        		  BIGGAR.                         361

divided Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and
the Immaculat Virgin Mary, mother of our Lord, for the safety of
the soul of King James V. late King of Scotland, of most worthy
memory, and for the safety of the Cardinall Legat's soul, and for
the safety of his own soul, and Joan Stewart, his wife, sister to the
said seren King, and for the souls of his parents, benefactors,
friends, and kinsmen, predecessors and successors, and of all faith-
ful deceast, and principally for the souls of those from whom he
had taken goods unjustly or don injury unto, and had not satis-
fied and compensed either by wakes, prayers, or pryce, did found,
date, and effectually erect a colledge or collegiate church, with
the collegial honor, dignity, and pre-eminency, for one provost,
eight canons, and prebends, and four boys having children's voyces,
and six poor men--bestowing upon the provost the rents, fruits, and
emoluments of the parochin and parish church of Thankertoun, with
the manse and glebe thereof, he always supplying the charge there
by another." It appears that the church of Thankertoun, which
was thus annexed to the collegiate church of Biggar by Lord Flem-
ing, was given up to him by the abbots of Kelso for that purpose.
They had received the right of patronage of Thankertoun from
his predecessors; but having learned his intention of building a
collegiate church at Biggar, and "considering that all of them in
these evil times, in the encreas of Lutheranism, were obliged to
contribute to so good a work, again transferred to Malcolm Lord
Fleming, in name of the colledge to be founded and built by him,
the right of patronage of the church of Thankertoun."
	The abbot of Holyrood also granted to the collegiate church
of Biggar, the right of patronage of the perpetual vicarage of the
parish church of Dunrod, in the stewartry of Kirkcudbright, on
the 5th May 1555.
	The church of Biggar, built in 1545, served both as the colle-
giate and parochial church. It still serves as the parish church,
and is in very good repair. It was built in form of a cross. The
body of it is complete, but the spire was left unfinished, owing pro-
bably to the breaking out of the Reformation, when it was in pro-
gress. Though time has scarcely touched this venerable struc-
ture, it has otherwise suffered some cruel mutilations. The ves-
try, a fine flag-roofed building, communicating with the chancel,
the large porch at the western door, the buttresses on the north
wall of the nave, the arched gateway at the entrance to the church-


