
234                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

holy water was fixed, and an empty recess, which was once, no
doubt, occupied by a stone figure like the others.
  In the room to the north of the chanCel, formerly the burying
vault of the Forresters, and now occupied by a stove for heating
the church, there are several stones with inscriptions on Them.
One of these, which was formerly placed in the inner wall of the
south aisle of the church, contained a donation to the poor; but
the first part of it is delete, so that the donor's name is not known.
The words are: "Et dictus Patricius dedit in perpetuum pro sub-
sidio, praedictorum pauperum unum annuum redditum quadraginta
denariorum praedietae monetae, de Tota et Integra terra Joannis
March, jacen in praedicto burgo, secundum tenorem cartae inde con-
fectae."  Another, which was dug up from under the wall separating
the church from the chancel at the last repair, contains the figure
of a chalice with a wafer above it in the centre, and round this fi-
gure towards the margin of the stone, in old English characters,
the inscription, "Hic jacet Magister Robertus Heriot Bachilarius in
Decretis, quondam Rector Eccl. de Gogar, qui obiit xi. die men-
sis Junii ano D m. ccccxliij."  A third, which was found in
a vault below the centre of the church, is a stone with an inscrip-
tion over the tomb, of a relative of Agnes Tod, second wife of
Archibald Forrester, and is In these words.-- "Hic Jacet Alexr.
Tod quond. filius Thomae Tod militis, qui obiit vii. die mensis
September, and D m&deg; cccc&deg; lxxx&deg;" Other stones, containing va-
vious emblems and flowers, were found in the same vault.  One of
these, now at Corstorphine Hill, has a sword anA emblems of a
knight of one of the holy orders.  This stone may possibly have co-
vered the grave of the renowned Bernard Steuart Lord D' Aubigny,
who was Knight of the Order of St Mcichael, and died in the house
of Archibald Forrester of Corstorpbine in June 1508, and is said
to have been buried within the collegiate church.
   Stipends.--  At the first establishment of the Reformed Church,
the reader's stipend was L.25 Scots.  Mr David Bassillie's sti-
pend before 1631 was 340 merks Scots, and on 25th March of that
year was augmented by the commission, with consent of the titu-
lar of teinds, to 300 merks money, and half a chalder of
victual, half-bear and half meal, during his incumbency, and after-
wards another half chalder was ta be added, and this without pre-
judice to any augmentation to be modified out of the teinds of
Gogar.  The stipend in 1755 amounted to L. 84, 11s. 1d., and
in 1798 to L. 175, 16s. 8d.



