
730                           FIFESHIRE.

  Duddingstone was " received to read in the kirk before sermon,
and to teach the bairns to read and write." In 1644, " the school-
master was found unfit to teach such a number of bairns as comes
to school," and an assistant teacher was in consequence appointed.
The elders appear to have gone through the parish, from time to
time, " to gather money to pay the master's house-mail and school-
house;" and, July 7th, 1644, mention is made of a " bond be
twixt schoolmasters and session, subscribed by so many as could
wreat, in name of the rest, except by Johne Dalgliesh." The
fees of poor children were paid by the session, that there might
be no excuse for absence from school. In illustration of the in-
terest taken by the church at that period in the cause of educa-
tion, we give the following extract from the record: March 18th
1649, the schoolmaster being inquired if the bairns attend the
school, he complained that manie faythers did withdraw their
children, and the names of the bairns' faytbers that were absent
were given in to, the session." They were " ordained to be sum-
moned again the nixt day." And accordingly, " March 25th
1649, compeared the faythers of the bairns that were withdrawn
from the school, and promised to send them to the school owre
the nixt week without faile." Whenever there was a falling off
in school attendance, the elders appear to have visited their se-
veral quarters, to " deal" with the parents to send their children
to school, and to keep them there as long as possible, instead of
sending them away to " the herding." In 1655, there appear to
have been four schools in the parish, one of which was in Torry
or Newmill, and another in " Crumbietoune." And, about this
time, " it was the desire of some that their bairns might be taught
the Latin tounge."
  While the record proves that great efforts were made by the
kirk-session to promote the cause of education, so also to see that
family worship was observed, that the Sabbath was sanctified,
and that drunkenness, swearing, evil speaking, and lewdness were
discouraged. Offenders were fined, and publicly rebuked before
the congregation.
  In 1643, " the Covenant was read and explained;" and, De-
cember 10th 1648, " the Covenant was renewed, and solemnly
sworn to by all, and; subscryved to by as manie as could writt: the
rest were, desyred to come in upon Tuesday following, for subscryv-
ing the same by themselves, or by some at their desire." About
this period, too, so memorable in the history of our fathers, there


