
354                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

parish.  It belongs to Messrs Cadell, and gives employment to a
considerable number of persons, both male and female.  One
machine is in operation day and night; and various kinds of excel-
lent paper made.
   Bleachfield.-The bleachfield here is much celebrated, and
most extensively employed.  A considerable number, both of
males and females, derive their support from it.
                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-Edinburgh and Dalkeith are the two market-
towns resorted to,-the former being seven miles, and the latter
six miles distant.
   Villages.-The two principal villages in the parish are Roslin
and Rosewell.
   Means of Communication.-There is a full post-office establish-
ed here, with two arrivals and one departure.  There are five miles
of turnpike roads in the parish.  The great Dumfries road goes
through it nearly a mile; and, along this road, the following
coaches travel, viz the Dumfries mail-coach, the Peebles coach,
and one from the Wellington Inn to and from Edinburgh.
   There is a great want of bridges in the parish.  The precipi-
tous banks of the Esk prevent communication, in a great measure,
between the inhabitants on the opposite sides of the river.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated near the one
end of the parish, being one mile from the east end, and five miles
from the west end.  It was built in 1827, and is in a good state
of repair.  It contains 444 sittings in the lower area, and is con-
structed to admit of galleries containing 200 or 250 sittings,-if
so many should be required.  Free sittings are allowed to the poor.
   The manse was built in 1832 at the expense of the congrega-
tion.  The church, manse, and school-house cost L.1600, and
the only remaining debt is L.100 on the church,-the other build-
ings being quite free.  The stipend of the minister is L.150.
   There is one Dissenting meeting-house in the parish at Bridg-
end.  It belongs to the United Secession.  There are two colle-
giate ministers, both paid by the seat-rents and the collection
made at the door.
   About two-thirds of the population belong to the Established
Church, and one-third to the Dissenters.
   The communion roll contains upwards of 300 names.
   There is an association in the parish for supporting the various
schemes of the General Assembly, and also for contributing to


