
28  		              CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


40 inches in diameter, the pumps 10 inches diameter. All these
pumps were of plane-tree, bored out of the solid wood, hooped
with iron, having spigget and faucet joints. The only pipes in
the two columns made of cast-iron were the working barrels. About
thirty-five years ago, the mines of this colliery took fire, but from
what cause is unknown; nor could the fire be extinguished until a
stream of water was poured down the engine-pit, and the colliery
was abandoned. There yet remains an extensive field of coal to
work, consisting of several seams. The mining operations in one
of the coals has been commenced on an extensive scale, by means
of mines brought from the pit bottom of the New Sauchy pump-
ing engine, situated in Clackmannan parish,-the property of the
Earl of Mansfield.
   The present colliery of Carsebridge, on the south side of the
great north slip, is about 50 fathoms deep to the upper five feet
coal. This winning was made about the year 1760. It is drained
by a hydraulic engine of considerable power. The water-wheel is
30 feet diameter overshot, and 3 feet wide in the buckets, with a
8 feet crank on each side of the axle, and draws the water to the
surface by means of pumps 10 inches diameter. This method of
draining a colliery is nearly as economical as that of a day level.
The water for drawing the water-wheel is brought from Gartmorn
Dam.
   The limited coal-field on the south side of the great south slip
was nearly wrought out about a century ago. This slip cut off the
workings to the north, and many trial bores were put down to the
north of the workings in search of the nine feet coal which had
been lost; but all these trials Were fruitless. At that time, the
effects of these slips was unknown; and the fact is, that the coal
which was lost was thrown up 200 fathoms, and the consequence
is that the crop of it is not found for about three-quarters of a
mile and that immediately to the north of the Carsebridge by-
draulic pumping-engine. The effect of these slips is only a recent
discovery, as well as the true constitution of the coal-fields.
   All the coals in this parish were wrought in the common way,
by post and stall as it is termed or in pillars and rooms, till within
these thirty years, when the Shropshire method was introduced,
and no pillars left. It was begun in the Carsebridge colliery, in a
coal about three feet thick, and is carried on successfully at pre-
sent. In the Colyland colliery, the post and stall system is now
pursued, the coal being too thick for working in the Shropshire



