
56                           LANARKSHIRE.

treasonable connection of the Earl of Angus with England became
apparent, with a view to remove him from the command of the
border passes and forts, Hepburn gave him Dolphinton and other
centrical lands in exchange for Liddesdale, and the strong castle
of Hermitage; but the superiority was retained till 1567, when it
was forfeited by the restless James Earl of Bothwell, whose crimes
caused Queen Mary's cruel fate, and his own imprisonment for
ten years in a Norwegian dungeon. In 1581 this property was
granted to Francis Stewart, who, in his turn, was created Earl
Bothwell; but in 1593 it was escheated to the crown by his at-
tainder. Soon after this period the ancestors of the present noble
family of Douglas acquired this manor. Chalmers says, in Caledo-
nia Vol. iii. that, during the seventeenth and part of the eighteenth
century, the lands of Dolphinton were held in property by the fa-
mily of Brown, but on a stone in front of the burying-aisle for the
predecessors and successors of William Brown of Dolphinton, the
date 1517 is quite legible. In 1755, Kenneth Mackenzie, advo-
cate, succeeded the Browns by marriage; but lord Douglas still
retains the patronage, and most of the superiority. Exposed to
the havock of border raids, and Annandale lifters, and thus identi-
fied with the most memorable revolutions of the nation, it is pro-
bable that in early times but a small proportion of our parishion-
ers died in their bed.
        Eminent Men.-Major Learmont, an officer of skill and courage,
was an elder of our congregation, and proprietor of Newholm,
which is not situated in Peebles-shire, as stated in Sampson's Rid-
dle, and it the Parliamentary records of the time, but in this pa-
rish. In 1666, when the accidental scuffle in Galloway drove the
Covenanters to arms, Learmont, Colonel Wallace, and Veitch, who
lived at the hills of Dunsyre, went to Ayrshire to collect their
friends. In Echard's History of England, and Law's Memorials, it
is stated that Learmont was a tailor,--and Wodrow, instead of cor-
recting the averment, merely rebuts the inference, by arguing that
even a tailor may become eminent in the art of war. At the battle
of Pentland-hills, he, as commander of the horsemen, led on the
second attack, in which he carried every thing before him, and al-
most capture the Duke of Hamilton. But when Dalziel brought
up his whole left wing of cavalry, there to one against
Learmont, he was borne down. He had his horse shot under him
when drawing off his men. But he started back to a fold dike,
killed one of the four dragoons who pursued him, and, mounting


