
                       ABERLADY.                       257

conveniency may be readily obtained; and some of them are
usually considered as remarkably good in quality.
   Means of Communication.-Aberlady has the benefit of a daily
post; and no parish enjoys more fully the means of commuca-
tion with other districts. A well-regulated coach passes through
the village on its way from North-Berwick to Edinburgh every
lawful morning, and returns the same evening; and every day in
the week, Sunday excepted, a carrier starts from Aberlady or pas-
ses through it on his way to the capital. The roads in every di-
rection are very good, and their present smoothness presents a
striking contrast to the rough and uncomfortable state they were
kept in, forty years ago. Thus all sort of produce are carried
easily to market, and more cheaply, too, than informer times; in-
dustry is stimulated by the facility with which its products are ex-
changed; and capital is increased by the rapidity with which its
returns are made.
   Ecclesiastical State-Aberlady appears to have been a parish at
an early period. It is supposed that, in very ancient times, the
Culdees had an establishment near the village; and that to this,
circumstance is to be traced the name "Kilspindy,"-signifying, in
the British speech, the "cell of the black-heads, or hoods." This
cell was probably connected with the Culdee monastery at Dun-
keld, and, at all events, when the bishoprick of Dunkeld was es-
tablished by David I., he conferred on the bishop of that diocese
Kilspindy and Aberlady, with their lands adjacent, the Advowson
of the church, its tithes, and other rights. This constituted the
eccleastical barony of Aberlady, over which a "regality" was
subsequently obtained, and the whole parish, notwithstanding its
local situation, was included in the bishoprick of Dunkeld. Aber-
lady continued a mensal church of the Bishop of Dunkeld till the
Reformation,-the spiritual duties being perform by a vicar;
and from this ancient  counection,the parish was afteramrds include-
ed within the commissariat of Dunkeld. Gawin Douglas, the
celebrated Bishop of Dunkeld, who died in 1522, "deeply regret-
ted by all good men," granted the lands of Aberlady and Kilapia-
dy to his half-brother, Sir Archibald Douglas, previously, mention-
ed; and, in 1589, the then Bishop of Dunkeld resigned into the
hands of King the church of Aberlady with its teinds and per-
tinents, that it might be converted into a sectory, and the advow-
son given to Patrick Douglas Sir Archibald's grandson, as an in-
dependency of the diocese of Dunkeld. James VI. accordingly


