
                         KING-EDWARD.                        281

uses no tiles, and gives the preference to stone drains, none of
which have even been choked, or gone materially wrong."
   "Trench ploughing was also introduced into this neighbourhood
upwards of twelve years ago, by a proprietor in a neighbouring pa-
rish, Mr Leslie of Dunlugas, and was immediately adopted by Mr
Grant Duff, who has trench-ploughed about 700 acres of his estate,
and, in every instance, when the land has been sufficiently drained,
the deep ploughing has been very successful.  Even on a gravelly
soil, apparently of depth not admitting of an ordinary furrow, and
apparently most unfit for such an experiment, this system has been
pursued, and attended with results highly satisfactory."
   "The subsoil plough, although not uncommon in the neigh-
bourhood, has not yet been adopted in this parish, although there
is much soil which might be greatly ameliorated by its introduc-
tion.  Oxen, yoked three abreast, with two powerful horses in
front, make an efficient strength for a trench plough in the stiffest
soil, and will generally plough half an acre to the depth of 14
inches in five or six hours."
   Enclosures are also going on in the property of the Earl of Fife.
We have stone fences and hedges from Danshillock, skirting the
turnpike all the way to Banff, a distance of five miles, which, with
the exception of those on the estate of Eden, were executed by his
Lordship about three years ago.  The farms are generally held
under leases of nineteen years.
   Quarries.-There are quarries of greywacke occasionally wrought
in the western quarter of the parish, and in the eastern quarter
there are quarries of red sandstone.
   Fisheries.-The principal salmon-fishing on the Doveran be-
longs to the Earl of Fife.  His Lordship is proprietor of both
sides of the river, and the rent derived from it is L.1600.  It might
be difficult to say what proportion of it might fall to this parish.
There is also a salmon-fishing on the estate of Eden, and another
on the property of Craigston.  The former, which is now in the
hands of the proprietor, used to let for L.20 a-year, and the latter
may be worth about L.5.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The only village is Newbyth, which is situated in the eastern
quarter of the parish, about nine miles from the church.  It stands on
a gentle eminence, and consists of two streets nearly at right angles
to one another.  It was begun to be feued in 1764.  The land
surrounding it, particularly towards the south and east, is of very


