
       870                        FIFESHIRE.

     Riccarton and Warrieston elsewhere. It is the third named with
     which Dunfermline parish is more immediately connected.
        Sir Henry Wardlaw, the eldest son of Sir Cuthbert of Balmule,
     was the first designated of Pitreavie (2 1/2 miles south-east from
     Dunfermline), and was also of Balmule. He was in high favour at
     court, and in 1603 was appointed chamberlain to.Anne of Den.
     mark, Queen of James VI.
        The present representative of the family is Sir William Ward-
     law of Pitreavie, the thirteenth Baronet, born 1794, residing in
     Edinburgh.
        Admiral Sir Andrew Mitchell, K.B., was the son of Charles
     Mitchell of Pitteadie, afterwards of Baldridge, near Dunfermline,
     and descended from the ancient family of Bandeth, Westshore,
     commonly called Mitchell of that ilk, and whose ancestors were
     barons of Scotland. He was born in this parish in 1757, and
     distinguished himself in the naval service during the last war.
     He died at Bermuda in February 1806.
        Arnald Blair, a monk of Dunfermline, was Chaplain to Sir
     William Wallace, and author of two Latin works, entitled 11 Re-
     lationes quaedam Arnaldi Blair, monachi de Dunfermling, et ca-
     pellani D. Willielmi Wallas, Militis, A. D. 1327," which begins
     with Sir William Wallace being chosen governor of Scotland in
     1298, and ends with his being betrayed and put to death, in
     1305 ; and " Diarium. Arnaldi de Blair, capellani Willielmi
     Valleij, Militis, (Gubernatoris Regni Scotiae), monachi de Dum-
     fermling, 1327," beginning at 1297, and ending 7th September
     1305, and occupying four and a half folio pages.
        Mr John Durie, a monk of Dunfermline in 1563, embraced
     the Protestant faith, and became an eminent preacher of it.
     He was successively minister of Leith, Edinburgh, and Mon-
     trose.
        Mr David Ferguson was the first Protestant minister of this
     parish, a man of great celebrity in his day, and held in much
     confidence and esteem by his brethren. He died on 23d August
     1598, aged 65, and is thus briefly but  pithily characterized by
     Spottiswood. " A good preacher, wise, and of a jocund and
     pleasant disposition, which made him well regarded both in court
     and country." Besides his famous sermon preached at Leith, he
     was the author of a compilation of the Scottish Proverbs, set in
     alphabetical order, the same year in which lie died, and printed



