
                            FARNELL.                       113

and is still in good repair. It is capable of accommodating above
330 sitters.
   The manse was built at different periods; but all of it since the
year 1794. It is in good repair.
   There are about seven acres of glebe, valued at L. 18 or L. 20
a-year. The stipend, since 1811, when it was last augmented,
has been 134 bolls, 1 3/4 pecks meal; 32 bolls potatoe-oats; and
97 bolls, 3 firlots, 33 3/4 pecks barley; besides the usual allowance of
L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   There are twelve grown up persons in this parish who attend
worship at Dissenting chapels in Brechin; two famhlhes, both nu-
merous, bomprising about fourteen members in all, commonly re-
siding in this parish, attend Episcopalian chapels. The rest of the
population belongs to the Established church; and divine service
is in general well attended. The average number of communicants
at the Established church for some years past has been about 275.
   An annual church collection is made for religious purposes;
which, after deducting the average collection for the poor, has
hitherto amounted to L.9 or L. 10 a-year.
   Education.--Besides the parish school, there are two schools
taught by females for young children, and for the branches pecu-
liar to girls. These are supported by school fees, and the teachers
have each a salary and free house allowed by the family of South-
esk; there are also two Sabbath schools, both numerously attended.
   The salary of the parochial teacher is L. 30; the amount of
school fees received probably from L. 20 to L. 24 a-year.  He has
the legal accommodations. The school fees per quarter are 2s. 6d.
for reading; and 6d. additional, either for writing or arithmetic; and
Is. for, both. It is believed that all persons in the parish above
six years of age are able to read.
   Library.--There is a parish library, consisting of religious books;
and a fair proportion of readers resorts to it.
   Poor.--The averagd number of persons receiving parochial aid
is from fifteen to twenty; and the average allowance to each is from
three to six shillings per month; though in some instances consider-
ably more, according to the necessities of the case. Besides those
on the regular roll, others get occasional help, and a share of the
money which is distributed for purchasing coals.
   The several sums expended on the poor amount to L.50 or
L.60; of this L.25 is the interest of legacies* and other lying-

<FOOTNOTE>The legacies are as follows;--in 1762, one of 600 merks, by Dean Carnegie, of
   FORFAR.                                  H


