
     Statistical Account

from the loch on the north side of the village of Kenmore,
and, after a course of 60 or 70 miles, discharges itself into
the sea, below Dundee.  It is navigable as far up as Perth.

<FOOTNOTE>

neous impulse.  The following copy of a letter, written by Mr
Fleming, contains a particular description of a phenomenon of
this kind, which happened in the year 1784.

     Manse of Kenmore, Nov. 4, 1784.

   " I did not return from the excursion on which I was when
I had the pleasure to see you at Dundee, till last Tuesday night.
On my arrival I found your letter respecting the phenomenon
that lately happened in this neighbourhood.  Although ill qua-
lified to give you satisfaction upon this subject, I shall, however,
comply with your desire, and give you the most accurate ac-
count of that phenomenon which I have been able to obtain.
" On Sunday the 12th September, about 9 o'clock in the
morning, an unusual agitation was observed in Loch Tay, near
the village of Kenmore.  That village stands at the east end of
the lake, having the river, which there issues from the lake, on
the north side, and a bay about 460 yards in length, and 200
yards in breadth, on the south.  The greater part of this bay
is very shallow, being generally no more than 2 or 3 feet deep;
but before it joins the body of the lake, it becomes suddenly
very deep At the extremity of this bay, the water was ob-
served to retire about 5 yards within its ordinary boundary,
and in 4 or 5 minutes to flow out again.  In this manner it
ebbed and flowed successively 3 or 4 times during the space of
a quarter of an hour, when all at once the water rushed from
the east and west in opposite currents, towards a lake across the
bay, and about the edge of the deep, rose in the form of a great
wave, to the height of 5 feet above the ordinary level, leaving
the bottom of the bay dry, to the distance of between 90 and
100 yards from its natural boundary.  When the opposite cur-
rents met, they made a clashing noise, and foamed; and the
stronger impulse being from the east, the wave, after rising to
its greatest height, rolled westward, but slowly diminishing as it
went, for the space of 5 minutes, when it wholly disappeared.
As the wave subsided, the water flowed back with some force,
and exceeded its original boundary 4 or 5 yards; then it ebbed
again about 10 yards, and again returned, and continued to


