
                     CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                          577

is a substantial edifice, built of granite, and in very good repair.
It is situated as nearly as possible in the centre of the parish, as
to its territorial boundaries (being about five miles from the south-
ern, and the like distance from the northern extremities) ; but it
unfortunately happens that the most populous parts of the parish
are at the two extremities, and near to the old church of Logie
Durno, and the parsonage of Fetternear.
   The Established Church is the only place of public worship in
the parish, and accommodates from 750 to 800 persons.  With
the exception of the minister's and elders' seats, each of the heritors
has his proportion of the church allotted for his own family, and
also for his tenants, so that it may be said that all the seats are free. *
   The manse was built in the year 1789: an addition was made
to it in 1814, and another addition in 1831.  It is now a large,
comfortable, and commodious house, and one of the best manses
in the country.
   The glebe is 18 imperial acres in extent, and is worth about
L.25 Sterling per annum.
   The stipend is 16 chalders Linlithgow measure, half meal, half
barley, according to the fiar prices of the county, together with
L 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.  The average amount for
the last seven years, exclusive of communion elements, is L. 216,
12s. 1 3/4d.
   The last augmentation was obtained in 1826, leaving the teinds
unexhausted.

<FOOTNOTE>In 1839, a very neat church, capable of containing 500 sitters, was erected at
Blairdaff, in the south side of this parish, about four miles and a-half distant from
the church of Chapel of Garioch.  It is placed in a beautiful situation, and com-
pletely surrounded with wood.  Besides the portion of this parish lying to the south,
a part of the parishes of Oyne and Monymusk, containing in the three parishes a po-
pulation of more than 1000 souls, are accommodated by this erection.  The ex-
pense of the church was about L.500, and was defrayed by subscriptions from some
of the heritors and parishioners of Chapel of Garioch, Oyne, and Monymusk; from
the ministers of the presbytery of Garioch, and other charitable individuals connected
with this part ofthe country: and also from a liberal grant from the General Assembly's
Church Extension fund.  The ground on which the church is built, and that intend-
ed for a burial ground, containing in whole about a Scots acre, was most handsomely
conveyed over by Robert Grant. Esq. of Tillyfour, to the minister and elders of the
parish of Chapel of Garioch, and their successors in office, the minister and elders of
said parish, in all time coming, for the payment of one penny Scotch, in name of
blench farm at Whitsunday yearly, upon the ground, if asked only.  There is no debt
upon the building.  The church was opened for public worship upon the 9th day of
June 1839, and since that period has been always well attended.  At the dispensation
of the sacrament of our Lord's Supper this year (1840,) in the new church, there
were 318 communicants.  It is much to be regretted that an endowment cannot be
obtained for this church, as the bearers in the neighborhood are in general
that they can afford to give but little for the support even of a preacher to
each Lord's day.
    ABERDEEN.                                    O o


