
                      PARISH OF CERES.

	          PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, AND SYNOD OF FIFE.

             THE REV. JOSEPH CRICHTON, MINISTER.*
                             ----------

                    I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
              THE parish of Ceres contains five separate villages, two of which
	are of considerable extent. The most extensive of these, is Ceres,
	from which the parish takes its name. The second largest village
	is named Craigrothie; and the third, Chance Inn. Coaltown was
         once a thriving village, inhabited by colliers.
              Name.-The name is to be found in ancient records written
	Siris, Cyres, Cyrus, Cires and Ceres.
              Extent and Boundaries.-The greatest length of this parish is-
	about 8 statute miles. The breadth varies from half a mile to 4
	miles. The river Eden runs along the north-west part of the pa-
	rish for a short way. The parishes of Kemback, St Andrews, and
	Cameron, bound Ceres towards the east; Kilconquhar and Largo
	towards the south; Scoonie, Kettle, and Cults towards the west;
	and Cupar towards the north. The boundaries between Cupar
	and Ceres are of a most irregular kind, and the very natives are,
	at some places, puzzled to tell whether they are standing in their
	own parish.
              Climate, Diseases, &c.-The climate is mild, and exceedingly
	healthful. The fogs that blow from the German Ocean are here
	removed or modified, and the sickly of St Andrews often make a
	salutary sojourn in some part of Ceres, where the east wind is felt
	as a pleasant breeze. The people are, on tbe whole, a healthy race.
	There are one or two persons at present in the parish, above nine-
	ty years of age; and in Craigrothie, where there are not many more
	than 200 inhabitants, there died lately three women, all of whom
	were above ninety.
              Hydrography.-The beautiful and useful river Eden runs along
	the north-east of the parish, for the space of a mile and a half.

         <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. George Cook, late Assistant to Mr Crichton,


