
                  ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                       955

he will find accurate statements in the Accounts of Bothwell and
Glasgow.
   Agriculture, &c.--Although so large a proportion of this county is
occupied by mountain and moor, and, although, even in much of the
arable country, the humidify and coldness of the climate are evils
with which the agriculturist finds it difficult to contend; yet there is
perhaps no county in Scotland in which agricultural enterprise is
active, and the march of improvement is more steadily and rapidly
progressive.  The energy of its commercial industry is com-
municated by sympathy and example to its rural labour ; and the
influence of its commercial wealth is everywhere visible in the scale
of its farming operations, and the spirit with which they are con-
ducted.  To say that all the improvements in agriculture are
readily adopted in this county, is not to give its agriculturists their
due meed of praise, unless we take into account the obstacles by
which they might be discouraged, and the perseverance and often
the ingenuity by which they are surmounted.  Not only is the
surface of the land improved, and its fertility increased, but even
its climate is greatly meliorated by the exertions of an enlightened
industry.  This industry is at once stimulated and assisted by the
means and facilities which the commercial resources of the county
afford, and the streams of wealth which are ever issuing from
Glasgow as a grand reservoir, spread richness and beauty over not
only the adjacent portions of the county, but over its remotest ex-
tremities.
   To these beneficial effects, the ambition of the opulent citizens
of Glasgow to become landed proprietors, essentially contributes.
Much capital is thus invested in the purchase and the improve-
ment of land, wherever it can be obtained.  Splendid mansions.
with the requisite accompaniments of lawns, pleasure-grounds, and
plantations, now delight the eye in many places where it was former-
ly offended with the squalid slovenliness of indolence or poverty.
The unsparing application of capital spreads an air of comfort and
elegance over all the vicinity of these abodes of wealth; and spots
which, not many years ago, lay in a state of nature, unseemly
and unproductive, now wear the smiling aspect of plenty and
beauty.
   A considerable proportion of the county, indeed, is in the pos-
session of ancient families, whose large estates, held by the tenure
of entail, cannot enjoy, except in the vicinity of the family resi-
dence, the same advantages as smaller properties of more recent


