
                              ROSSKEEN.                              263

     3000 feet above the level of the sea.  In the interior of the pa-
     rish, at a distance of about seven miles from the coast, there is a
     very extensive strath called Stratbrusdale, used chiefly for sheep
     pasturage.
        Meteorology, &c.-The climate is dry, temperate, and salubrious.
     The temperature in summer rarely exceeds, 80&deg; Fah. in the shade,
     and in winter it seldom falls below 14&deg;.  The climate sometimes
     varies a little in different parts of the parish, "for all kinds of
     farm-work can be carried on in the lower part of the parish, when
     in the heights the operations are interrupted by hard frost or a
     fall of snow."
        Hydrography.-This parish, as we have already mentioned, is
     situated on the northern shore of the Frith of Cromarty, and is
     bounded by it for a distance of nearly six miles.  The frith finds en-
     trance between the two hills known by the name of the Sutors of
     Cromarty, and runs up into the country a distance of about twenty
     miles, and is almost surrounded by an amphitheatre of hills, be-
     tween which and the shore lies a, well-wooded and fertile country.
     The scenery of the frith is remarkably fine.  From the Ness of
     Invergordon, the spectator can, on a clear summer evening, obtain
     a view of rarely equalled beauty.  Looking to the east, across the
     broad waters of the Moray Frith, "the finest water piece in Bri-
     tain," be can discern in the distance, skirting the horizon, the dis-
     tinctly defined coast of Moray; nearer, he beholds the Sutors of
     Cromarty, uprearing themselves on either side of the gateway
     through which the waters of the Frith enter, and which, imme-
     diately within these natural barriers, expand into, a broad and
     beautiful bay, with the sweetly situated town of Cromarty on the
     south side, and on the north a rich and fertile country, with a mag-
     nificent back-ground of hills. Turning his eyes westward, he sees
     the calm and peaceful frith stretching up farther than the eye can
     well reach, and bordered on the north side by a stripe of richly
     wooded and comparatively level country; in the distance way be
     perceived the mountain monarch Ben Wyvis, raising high into the
     clear blue air his snowy summit, and surrounded by a. hundred
     ancient hills, like so many chiefs round their sovereign; while to
     the south-west, the view is bounded by the huge and many-peak-
     ed Ben Vaichard.  The general depth of the frith is from 15
     to 2o fathoms ; it preserves this depth for 12 or 14 miles; but after
     that, it shoals considerably.  It is navigable, however, at full tide,
     for vessels of considerable size, to its furthest extremity.


