
                        PARISH OF GARTLY.

              PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                  THE REV. JOHN ROBERTSON, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-THE parish of Gartly, though locally
in Aberdeenshire, is nevertheless, legally, partly in that county and
partly in the county of Banff.  It is divided, nearly in the centre,
by the water of Bogie, into what is called the Barony and the Braes.
The Barony is in the county of Banff, and pays the land tax in that
county,-the Braes are in the county of Aberdeen.  This ano-
maly is said to have arisen from the circumstance, that the pro,
prietor of the Barony, Baron Barclay, one of the feudal barons
of the ancient Earls of Huntly, being Sheriff of the county of Banif,
used means to get his domains within his own jurisdiction.  The
parish is of an irregular oblong form, about 12 miles in length from
east to west, and 4 1/2 miles in breadth in the middle, and may com-
prise about 33 square miles.  It is bounded on the east by the pa-
rishes of Insch and Kinnethmont; on the west by Cabrach and
Huntly; on the south by Rhynie; and on the north by Huntly and
Drumblade.
   Topographical Appearances.-The boundaries on the east and
west sides are hilly and chiefly covered with heath,the moors on both
sides are extensive, and abound with grouse, &c. and have for some
years past been let to gentlemen from the other side of the Tweed,
as shooting-grounds.  From the mosses on these hills, not only the
inhabitants of the parish, but also of the town of Huntly, are in a
great measure supplied with fuel.  The mosses on the east side of
the parish are now almost exhausted; but on the west side they are
so deep and extensive as to be almost inexhaustible.  From these
hills, many small brooks fall into the Bogie.  The valleys supplied
by these brooks are very fertile, as well as the lands on both sides of
the Bogie.  The surface is, in many places, beautifully diverisified
with hill and dale.  Some of the glens are exceedingly beautiful
and picturesque.  The glen of Tillyminnet, in particular, which


