
446                EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Edinburgh to Lanark. With these great lines there are cross
parish roads connected at different points, so that the means of
communication are ample and convenient. On the former of
the public roads, previously to the erection of the Edinburgh
and, Glasgow Railway, the mail, with a variety of other coaches,
plied daily between these places; but now there is only one,
which goes by Hamilton. There is a coach from Mid-Calder to
Edinburgh three times a-week. On the Lanark road, a coach
runs to and from that place to Edinburgh,-going the one day and
returning the other. The Edinburgh and Glasgow Canal is
at Linnsmill, the aqueduct over the Almond, which is the nearest
point of communication-about three miles distant; the Ratho
station, which is the readiest place for communicating with the
railway, is about five miles.
   There are carriers to Edinburgh from Kirknewton and from
East Calder.
   Post-Office.-There is a post-office in Kirknewton, With two
arrivals, and the same number of departures daily.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish of Kirknewton, as already
stated, comprises what were formerly the two separate parishes of
Kirknewton and East Calder. It belongs to the Presbytery of
Edinburgh and the Synod of Lothian and Tweeddale. The union
appears to have been contemplated long before it was carried into
effect. In the document printed by the Maitland Club, formerly
referred to, of date 1627, it is stated, "Thair bes bene, their dy-
veris yeiris bygane, purpose of uniteing Calder Cleir and Kirk-
newton, and that most commodious lie." The union did not,
however, take place till 1750, when a new church was built, cen-
tral to the parish as now constituted, and other relative arrange-
ments made. The fabric is plain and substantial, and sufficiently
fitted to answer the practical purposes of its erection, while it is
certainly to be regretted that the structure had not been planned
with a little more regard to the very conspicuous situation in
which it stands, and the importance of the parish church as a fea-
ture in the landscape.
   The situation of the church is convenient for the bulk of the
population. Its distance from the extremities of the parish, on
the south-west, is about four miles.
   The church is seated to accommodate about 430. The usual
number of communicants, is about 320. The patronage belongs
to the Duke of Buccleuch and the Earl of Morton, who present,
alternately.


