
     Statistical Account

And so tenacious was his Lordship of his right, that neither
he nor his Lady would allow a call to be moderated in his

<FOOTNOTE>

a very favourable testimonial was given him by the parishioners, and even by
the Presbytery, he was deposed.
   The following year Mr Gabriel Cunningham was admitted.  He seems
to have been less scrupulous.  Taking warning from the fate of his two im-
mediate predecessors, he conformed to episcopacy, after the restoration.  At
the time of his admission the stipend of Monaeburgh was only 5 chalders of
victual, meal and barley 100 lb.  Scots, and 16 stone weight of cheese.  In the
year 1665 the money stipend was, however, augmented to 350 merks.  At the
same time the manse was considerably repaired.  But principally at the par-
son's own expence.  This was the more remarkable, as he had paid 500
merks for it to his predecessor.  After these repairs, it was valued by trades-
men as worth 1160 merks.  His glebe, after the sale his predecessor had
made of a part of it, consisted only of 7 acres or little more.  In all likelihood,
the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was not administered in this parish, till
about this period.  For it is recorded, that in the year 1665, communion
table cloths, cups, and tickets, were obtained, and a bason for baptism, but no
flaggons, nor even a church bible The people repeated the creed, said the
Lord's prayer, and sung the doxology after the psalms.
   About this period, the village was considerably increased.  A new town
was built, not along the banks of the Ebroch or Garrel Burn as formerly, but
on a rising ground about 200 yards south of those streams, which at that time
was called Moat Hill, as the Lord of the manor had been accustomed to hold
courts of justice in that place.  This new town of course was called by the
title of the proprietor, Kilsyth.  And from that period the whole village ob-
tained that name.  Though the parish for upwards of 40 years retained still
the old name Monaebrugh.  The village about the time that this new addition
was made, or at least soon after it, being removed at some distance from the
small rivers, and in all likelihood ill supplied with water, that precious article
was brought in earthen pipes, from a neighbouring spring about a quarter of a
mile from the town; And a well or cistern was made near the centre of the
new town, which still bears date 1676.  Since that period, other cisterns sup-
plied by the same spring, have been erected in different parts of the town, e-
specially in the year 1716.
   It would appear that Mr Cunningham d'ed minister of this parish.  For
in the year 1666 Mr James Gartshore was admitted to the charge.  But he


