
                              ALYTH.                              1115

       adhered rigidly to the cause of Presbytery.  In the session re-
       cords for the years 1645-6, there are several intermissions of
       public worship, "because of the common enemy."  From Febru-
       ary to August 1646, Montrose's army was stationed in the ilme-
       diate neighbourhood, to the great consternation of the inhabitants,
       as appears from the following entries in the session book.  "July
       5 day 1646, first Sabbath.  Given to Hendrie Cargill, x sh" for
       to go to the camp to trie and search some news from the malig-
       nants, and that be may be for warnisse of their cuming upon us.
       July the 2 Sab,  This day no preaching, because of the common
       enemie.  July the 3 Sab. and 4 Sab.: No preaching, because
       Montrose was so near us.  August the first Sab. and 2 day:
       There was no preaching with us since the last Fast, (Feb. 1st.)
       because the enemie was quarterit in our bownds.  This day our
       minister taught."
         When Dundee was besieged by General Monk in 1651,
       the Committee of Estates and of the Kirk met at Alyth with
       other lords, gentlemen, and ministers, to concert measures for
       raising the siege; but the meeting was summarily dissolved
       by a detachment of the English army, who surprised them and
       took a number of prisoners.  Thhs occurrence is generally stated
       by Hume to have happened near Dundee; but in Gumble's Life
       of General Monk, it is expressly said to have taken place at Alyth,
       near the Highlands.  The writer has not given his authority for
       the statement, but it is confirmed by several entries in the parish re-
       cords.  It appears from the following, that Mr John Rattray, who
       was minister of this parish from 1637 to 1678, was among the pri-
       soners.  "August the last day 1651: This day no preaching, be-
       cause our minister was taken on Thursday last by the Englishes, be-
       ing the 28 of August l651."  Mr Rattray was carried with the army
       into England, and was not restored to his parish till the mointh of
       June in the following year.  Mention is also made in other places
       of persons taken or wounded in the "onfall of Alyth." The fol-
       lowing entry seems curious enough to be quoted, as illustrative of
       the state of the country at that period.  "March the 28, 1652:
       No preaching, except only ane Englishe trouper went up to ye
       pulpit, and made ane forme of ane preaching, who had no war-
       rant to preach, whose text was upon the 45 Psalm 13, 14 vs."
       After the Restoration, the minister and parishioners of Alyth ap-
       pear to have submitted quietly to the altered state of things
       'March 15, 1663: This day, the clerk writter hereof, being ap-



