
KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.
This building, like all other - monuments over the gmvw. in this
place, faces the east,-its walls are about four feethigh, very
rudely but strongly built. It is yet entire, except at one corner
where the roof has fallen in, but there is now no vestige of an in!-
scription upon any part of it.
The, remains of. so many kings, and some of them very great
ones, reduced to such.a span-the dust of Aeliaius, of the Don-
alds, of the Constantines, of Kenneth II., and Gregory the Great,
each of them the conqueror of a kingdom, all confined within the
walls of this narrow house, in the solitary island of Iona,-is such
a curiosity, as is perhaps nowhere else to be met with in the
world; and to a contemplative mind, the most melancholy spec-
tacle of human greatness.
About seventy feet south of the chapel, is a red unpolished
stone, beneath which lies a king of France. Both history and
tradition are silent as to who this king was.
Near the tomb of the kings is an inscription upon a stone, writ-
ten, it would appear, before the use of surnames, and in a cbarac-
ter more ancient than that of the others,-thus, Or doman Fa.
taric, or the tomb of Patrick. Not far from this, there is an-
other inscription, written in a similar character, upon a stone half
sunk in the earth, Coromac Ulphada hic. This is said to be one
of the Irish kinas before referred to.
Upon the west side of the church, there is the, following in-
scription, 11 Hiciacet Johannes Belonus Maclonorum familier medi-
cus, qui mortuus est, 19 Novembris 1657, at. 63. Donaldus Be-
tonus fecit 1674. Ecce cadet jaculo victricis mortis iniqum; qui to.
ties alios solverat ipse malis. Soli Deo Gloria." This is one of
the celebrated Mull physicians referred to in the earlier part of this
narrative.
Crosses.-In a field -upon the west side of the church, there is a
cross which appears to be of very ancient date. It is of one stone,
near eight feet high and twenty inches broad, set on a pedestal of
granite. It is of the hardest whin rock, and though it, has the,ap.
pearance of great age, it is but lhttle impaired, except at the top
where a part of it has been broken off by violence. Adomnau
seems to mean this stone, when he informs us that in Columbes
itne, there was a cross which stood midway between the, monas-
tery and the granary, and which was afterwards he says, filed on
a pedestal. This is the precise Situation of the cross we describe,
for there is a very ancient ruin of tbe granary about the same dis-


