
10                               RENFREWSHlRE.

informed respecting insects, we have little doubt that a similar
change is going on among them.
   The most important fish in our rivers is the salmon. And
as this burgh long possessed an exclusive right to fish along the
whole length of the county, the value of the salmon-fishing, is to
it a matter of importance.  To ascertain with as much accuracy
as possible, the effects which the commercial improvements on the
Clyde may have had on the quantity taken, we have had a state-
ment made out of the rents of the fishing for 120 years, ending
with 1834. During that period the rent seems to have made gra-
diial progress.  Taking the last sixty years, during which these im-
provements have almost wholly taken place, and dividing them into
three periods of twenty years each, the amount of rent for each pe-
riod will stand thus: From 1774 to 1794, L. 1126, 14s.; from 1794
to 1814, L. 3902, 4s.; and from 1814 to 1834, L. 4199, 1s.
From this it would seem as if the fishing had actually increased,
whereas we find it to be the uniform testimony of aged men, prac-
tically acquainted with the matter, that the quantity is probably
not more than one-third or even one-fourth of what it once was;
the increase of the rent being chiefly dependent on the rise of the
price, and partly, perhaps, also on competition among bidders for
the fishing. The embankment of the river keeps the fish in the
current, leaving them no resting-place; and even this is, during per-
haps fifteen hours of every day, (Sabbaths only partially excepted,)
-frequently agitated by steamers. They are also deprived probably
of many beds where they were wont to spawn. But, above all, the
water of the river is now so saturated with poisonous mattter, from
Glasgow and other places, as greatly to injure them. During se-
vere drought in summer, we have seen many large fishes floating
dead on the surface of the water. *

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Family of Stewart.-The ancient family of Stewart had their
first residence and special patrimony in this parish. The earliest
ancestor of this family, respecting whom we have properly authen-
ticated information, was Walter, usually denominated Filius Alani.
To him, the burgh and territory of Renfrew, with other estates and
perquisites, were granted by David I., who ascended the throne in

<FOOTNOTE>It is a curious fact, attested by all fishermen, that the salmon uniformly seek to
return to the place where it was spawned. As the spawning beds of the Clyde are
chiefly above Glasgow, it forces its way up the river, and has to encounter all the
hinderances that occurr. It were well, therefore, even in an economical point of view,
that every hinderance to the upward progress of the salmon were on Sabbath removed,
and this noble fish allowed the free use of his native river.


