
                           COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                      171      

     fish has been more slovenly,  and their character in the market
     lowered.  The chief season for fishing cod is April and May. For
     several years, this business has been carried on by numerous small
     decked vessels of from 20 to 40 tons, with hand lines, and shell-
     fish bait, and the fishing ground is the south and south-west
     sides of the coast.  The ling, tusk, and cod are also caught by
     small boats with hand lines at all seasons, but in comparatively li-
     mited numbers, and those got in winter are salted in heap till the
     spring drought arrives.  The south and north extremities of
     the country are the localities where the saithe( Godus carbo-
     narius) are caught; but there seems no reason why they should
     not be sought for with success, around the coast. This is the
     most abundant and generally diffused fish in Shetland, if we
     may judge from the exuberant number of the young pervading
     every part of the shores.  From saithe being caught with little ha-
     zard near land during summer, requiring small capital, and always
     selling readily in the home market, it will probably ere long be
     prosecuted as the most profitable and generally attainable branch
     of the fishing.  The young of different ages and sizes called sil-
     lachs and piltacks, are really the staff of life to the inhabitants of
     these islands, and they are both palatable and nutritious.  The
     supplies of them, during the last four years of scarcity of bread,
     have been providentially most abundant throughout, and but for
     this, notwithstanding the liberal charitable donations* from the
     south, famine must have occurred. Skate, haddock, halibut, and
     other kinds of fish are caught for consumption at home; but they
     are little followed as separate objects of pursuit.
        As far as the fishing by boats is concerned, it will be difficult
     to point out a better mode than the one now in operation. The
     kind of boat is of the old Norway model improved, it is one
     of the finest combinations for rowing and sailing, and when not
     over-masted, (as it always is,) and under skilful and intrepid ma-
     nagement, is as safe as an open boat can well be. Boat fishing
     must, of course, often be hazardous here, as it is everywhere else;
     but it has still advantages which will not permit its disuse.  The
     losses that occur are mostly from mismanagement, and few acci-
     denits happen to boats in which the art of swimming would not
     be, of vital use; yet hardly a single fisherman acquires it, and an,
     object of great moment would be its general introduction.  The

<FOOTNOTE> In this work of benevolence the amiable and meritorious Society of Friends
     have been conspicuous, as they ever are, in the sacred cause of Christian philanthropy.


