
     Of Kirriemuir.

is at present 19.  The only fund for their support arises from
the interest of a small sum saved by the session in former
years, to answer any emergence, collections in the church,
dues for lending mortcloths, fines from delinquents, and the
sale of the effects of pensioners after their death.  These, for
the year 1792, amounted to 99 L. 9 s. 8 1/2 d.  The distribu-
tions to the above pensioners, and some other occasional cha-
rities, with 4 L. 6 s. paid to the session-clerk and beadle, a-
mounted to 86 L. 16 s. 2 d.; so that in 1792, there was a sav-
ving of 12 L. 18 s. 6 1/2 d., although the allowance to each pen-
sioner was never more liberal, being from 3 s. to 7 s. a-month,
besides the rent of their house, and from 5 s. to 10 s. to assist
them in buying fuel*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-A little to the W. of the town
is a globular hillock, and contiguous to it, a circular pond
evidently excavated to form the hillock.  In a disposition to
the estate of Kinnordy by one of the Douglas family, this
hillock, which is called the Court Hillock, and a road to it,
is reserved.  The pond is commonly called the Witch Pool,
and was lately converted into a reservoir for the mills on the
Gairie; a much better use than, if we may judge from the

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1762, the collections made in the church were, each Sunday, at a me-
dium, including what was collected at the dispensation of the Lord's Supper 
9 s 9 1/4 d.  In 1772, the church was vacant; but in 1770, they were 14 s. 2 d.;
and 1790, 1 L. 8 s. 10 d.:  A clear proof this of the glowing opulence of the
parish, as well as of their charitable disposition.  But in order to have the a-
mount of their charity, we must add a considerable sum given to be distributed
among poor families, not pensioners, by two of the hesitors who are Episcopa-
hans, and, therefore, seldom or never attend the church; and a very large sum
given by the people to strolling beggars, most of whom, instead of being ob-
jects of charity, are very fit objects for a house of correction.  Such, however,
is the disposition of the people, that their purse is open to every vagabond who
can tell a plausible tale of woe; and as much squandered in this way as would
make all the poor in the parish live comfortably.


