
32                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

ed to 1320, of whom 651 were males, and 669 females. This is
exactly double of what the population was in 1791, when the last
Statistical Report was drawn up. The increase is to be ac-
counted for in this manner: Sir Robert Grierson, who is proprie-
tor of a large share of Lochar Moss, and of the adjoining land,
and through whose property the turnpike road from Dumfries to
Carlisle passes for a considerable length in two divisions, began
about twenty-five or thirty years ago to encourage the building of
a village called Collin, adjoining said road, and near the moss, by
granting building leases for ninety-nine years, of small portions of
land. Ro rapid has been the growth of the village and its bran-
ches, that nearly one-half of the whole population of the parish
is now resident upon the same ground which was formerly oc-
cupied by only five or six families. The principal inducement to
build in this situation, is its proximity to a great and well fre-
quented public road, which always has its attractions and advan-
tages, and to Lochar Moss, where the villagers get a cheap and
abundant supply of fuel. It was formerly thought by many pro-
prietors of land, that the great desideratum was to get plenty of
people to build and settle upon their estates. But experience has
taught them, that collecting a multitude of people, when there is
not sufficient employment for them, instead of being any advan-
tage, has no better effect than to bring a heavy burden upon them-
selves, and upon the neighbourhood, and is the sure way to increase
the number of paupers, and to introduce parochial assessments for
the maintenance of the poor, with all their concomitant evils.

<TABLE>
The number of inhabitants residing in the village of Collin and its branches, is  582
In the village of Rowcan,                                                         242
In the village of Torthorwald, near the old castle,                               185
In the country part of the parish,                                                311
         									 1320
	The number of families in the parish is 273, of which 48 are
chiefly employed in agriculture, and 82 in trade, manufactures,
and handicraft. The average number of births for the last seven
years is 29: of deaths, 17; of marriages,  7 1/2.

<TABLE=Industry>
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The average number of im-
perial acres yearly bearing crops is,
Of Oats,                                                                        950
   Barley,                                                                      339
   Wheat,                                                                       150


