
                     BOTHWELL.                       773

crosses the Clyde somewhere between Hamilton Bridge and Both-
well Bridge, and runs in an undulating line towards Bellshill and
Langloan, which last is its northern extremity; proceeding then in
a western direction, it passes from Langloan through Baillieston,
towards Tolleross, near Glasgow, recrosses the Clyde above the
ironworks at Bogleshole, extends south-west near to Dechmont
hill in Cambuslang, takes then an easterly direction, and passing
through the east and north-east parts of Cambuslang and Blan-
tyre, re-enters Hamilton by Carnock House, and runs on by
Meikle Earnoch and Simpson land to Quarter.  This rock is of
a bright-red colour, sometimes soft and friable, but in general
compact and well suited for building; in some places it is marked
with dark spots, as if iron water or some carbonaceous matter of a
blackish colour had percolated through it.  The soil immediately
above it is generally a red clay, often very tenacious, and mixed in
many places with a white argillaceous matter, exactly resembling
pipe-clay.  This is succeeded by a thin crust of sandstone, of a
pure white colour, or by thin slabs resplendent with mica.  It is
interspersed in some places with layers which are so tough that
they can scarcely be either cut or broken, and fragments of older
and harder rocks are everywhere imbedded in it.  This descrip-
tion is drawn chiefly from some quarries which have been lately
opened up.  About four or five feet above the upper sur-
face of the rock, there is found in some instances a thin stratum
of what appears to be iron-sand, (sable ferruguineux,) much re-
sembling some of the Wealden formations found in England, Po-
land, and Germany.  In its general appearance it bears a striking
resemblance to the brown sandy slag which comes from an iron-
work, but when bruised with a stone or hammer it is reduced to a
rusty brown sand, full of small, and often minute pisiform or reni-
form nodules of ironstone.  The bed upon which this stratum rests
is a yellow ochreous clay.  A large section of this description was
lately laid open in a field at Blantyre works, nearly opposite Both-
well Castle; no animal or vegetable remains were found; the bed
is about six inches thick, and extends a long Way into the, country,
often impeding the labourer when casting drains, &c.
   The red sandstone is much fractured, and in the beds of rivers
and ravines, it may be seen towering up to a great height, hav-
ing no inapt resemblance to a piece of Cyclopean architecture.
The seams of these fractures are lined with soft red clay, and no
   LANARK                                3 D


