
          1248                      PEITTHSHIRE.

          and cattle.  Mr Home Drummond has lately, and at his own ex-
          pense, brought a supply of excellent spring water'by pipes into
          Thornhill, which has been a valuable boon to the inhabitants of
          that village.
            The principal small streams or burns which flow through this
          parish are the Mill of Muck, and the Burnbank burns, which have
          been employed in driving mills and floating moss into the Forth.
          There are also the burns of Cessintully and Little Mill, in the
          western division of the parish, which have been employed for the
          same purposes.
            The principal rivers which w`ter this parisb are the Forth, the
          Teitb, and the Goodie.
            The Forth, the Boderia of Ptolemy, and Bodotria of Tacitus,
          is the southern boundary of this parish.  Near its source it has
          two branches, the one in Stirlingshire, which comes from a spring
          on the north side, and near the summit of Benlomond, and is con-
          sidered to be the proper source of the river; the other, which is-
          sues from Loebard and Lochcon in Perthsbire, has its source
          westward of Lochcon.  These two branches meet at Aberfoyle
          in Perthshire, where they are called the Avendhu, or Black
          River.; and at Gartmore House, five miles below this junction,
          they receive and retain the name of the Forth.
            The course of this river from Benlomond to Stirling may be
          about 35 miles.  The upper part of tbe'Forth is narrow and sbal-
          low; but in its progress it deepens from three to seven feet, and
          when it passes from the dryfield into the carse, its breadth and
          depth are greatly increased, by receiving the contents of many tri-
          butary streams.  In its progress, for fifteen miles, the channel is
          sometimes rocky, and sometimes gravelly, and its water is clear
          and pleasant to the taste; but, nn entering, the flat, mossy, and
          clayey district, it is discoloured, not merely by the nature of the
          soil, but also, during a great part of the year, by the moss which
          is floated into it, and by other agricultural improvements.
            This appearance of the river is increased by the influx of the
          Goodie, which joins the Forth abou-t nine miles above Stirling,
          after running through part of this parish.  It issues from tbe lake
          of Monteith, in, the parish of Port; and at a short distance from
          the lake it enters Moss Flanders, and, like the Forth, flows slowly
          in a channel so deep as to be seen only by those who approach its
          branks.


