
                             LASSWADE.                         335

same time, is a simplification of both processes to a wonderful de-
gree.  In regard to the weaving, this is reduced to the simplest
process possible, as all the intricate machinery of the Brussels and
Wilton looms, with their expensive harness, is superseded.  And,
as to the printing, the same implements are made to produce all
patterns, no matter how dissimilar.
   The productions of the manufactory are already in much re-
quest in London, and have found their way to various parts of the
world.
   Mr Henderson it the resident partner at the manufacture, and,
under his management, aided by a very talented designer of pat-
terns, the improvement is steadily progressive; so that it is not
easy to say to what perfection this manufacture may be advanced,
the more so as there is scarcely any limit to the number of colours
or shades that may be introduced, with scarcely any additional
expense.
   Mr Babbage, in his Economy of Manufactures, enumerates a
variety of methods of multiplying figures; but he was not aware
of this one, which differs very widely from all those he describes
in his very useful publication.
   The manufactory is visited by great numbers of persons, who
are most courteously received by the intelligent and enterprising,
gentlemen connected with the establishment.
                   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.--There are no market-town in the parish
Dalkeith and Edinburgh are the two market-towns resorted to;
the former being distant two miles, and the latter six miles.
   Villages.--The principal villages in the parish are, Lasswade,
Loanhead, and Pentland.
   Means of Communication.--There are two post-offices in the
parish, each having two arrivals and two departiares in one day.
The turnpike roads extend in length to about twelve miles.  A
coach runs several times each lawful day between Lasswade and
Edinburgh, by Loanhead.  The Dumfries Mail-Coach, and a
stage-coach from the Wellington Inn, near Pennicuik, pass
through a small part of the parish, on their way to and from Edin-
burgh.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated about a mile and
a-half from the east end of the parish, and about four and a-half
miles from the west end.  It was built in 1793, and is remarkable
for the beauty of its situation.  It is one the most elegant and


