
<APPENDIX>

lxix

many and manly efforts you continue to make, for the real interest and ho-
nour of your country.  While others are failing down the stream, in quest of
baubles, and are in danger every moment of sinking by the way, into me-
rited contempt and oblivion, your perseverance and independent spirit, will
transmit your name with honour to posterity, with present admiration, and
true satisfaction to yourself.  Obliti patriot memores tantum sui, seems a
fit motto for the present luxurious and degenerate age.  If they are to be
roused to any degree of public spirit, which indeed I despair of, the attempt
is laudable, even though it should not succeed, magnis tamen excidit ausis.
I have read all your printed works, which both instructed and pleased me.
Your last attempt will be attended with great advantage, as every wise ad-
ministration will attend to several hints of police, which arise out of the
Reports of the different parishes.

<APPENDIX>

G.

   An Account of the various Attempts, in Scotland, and in other Coun-
   tries, to carry on Inquiries of a Statistical Nature, previous to the
   Commencement of this undertaking.

   THERE is no circumstance, which tends to place in a stronger point of
view, the difficulty attending the completion of such a Work, than to
consider how often it has been either in vain undertaken, or imperfectly ac-
complished, on various other occasions.  A short account of these attempts,
so far as my information reaches*, it may not be improper to Lay before
those, who are pleased to interest themselves in the success of this publica-
tion.

   1. Spain.-The first attempt of the sort in modern Europe, (if Dooms-
day Book is excepted), seems to have taken place in Spain, as far back as
the year 1575.  We are indebted for that important article of information.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some inquiries to the same effect, took place in Saxony, in Milan, in
Tuscany, and perhaps in other states, the result of which I have not been
able to ascertain.


