
                             UNST.                              43

in this island, who have turned their attention to the subject, have
raised very fair crops of Angus oats, and have proved that as good
turnips, and rye-grass, and clover can be grown here as in any
part of the kingdom, and that the climate and soil are peculiarly
adapted for such crops. They have vastly improved the appear-
ance of the farms under their own immediate management, and
made them look like oases in the midst of a barren desert.
     Most of the farms are, to this day, lying run-rig, and, according
to the old system, consist of outfield and infield. The outfield
seldom receives any manure. It is turned over with the spade
every alternate year, for, since the reduction of the size of the
farms, ploughs amongst the tenantry have been wholly laid aside;
yet, notwithstanding of this treatment, the outfield land yields a
fair average crop of black oats. The infield, or ground nearest
the farm-house, is yearly manured, and on it they raise fine crops
of bear and potatoes. If the farms were brought into a more com-
pact form, and enclosed, a few of the more active and intelligent
might be induced to sow turnips, and rye-grass, and clover, and
thus produce an abundance of nutritious winter provender for their
cattle, of which, under the present management, there is often
great scarcity.
     None of the tenants, or but few of them, have leases, not that
the land-owners are unwilling to grant them; such is not the case,
but because they are not disposed to take them. Many of them
are so restless and fond of change, that they do not choose to
bind themselves to remain for a fixed time in one place, and this
is often the cause of much annoyance and loss to the proprietors
of the soil, for it is not to be supposed that such tenants will take
much trouble about the improvement of their land. It is seldom
that the land-owners warn a tenant to remove, if he is honest and
industrious, and there are many of the most substantial and re-
spectable of the tenantry, who are now in the same houses and
on the same farms which their fathers and grandfathers occupied
before them, and some of them, by their industry, have doubled
the ancient extent of their arable land.
     Many of the tenants have comfortable houses, built solely at
the expense of the proprietors, at a cost not under three years-
rent of the land they occupy.
     As the extent of the commons or bills and unenclosed ground
has never been ascertained by any actual survey, it can only be
stated conjecturally. The truth, however, is not exceeded, when



