
                        LANARK.                                  3

The atmosphere is much less humid than at Glasgow, and even
Hamilton. It has often been observed that not more than one
out of five of the spring and autumnal showers which rise duly.
to windward pass over this parish, being either attracted by the
range of mountains to the south, or by the high wet ground on
the north-west; and that the thunder storms which succeed the
summer droughts commonly drench all the neighbouring districts
before they reach this place. The prevailing winds are west and
south. The latter is generally attended by rain.  Any permanent
drought usually begins with an east wind.
	Diseases.--Lanark is celebrated, and deserves its reputation, as
a remarkably healthy place,--an advantage for which it probably
is indebted to its open, dry, and elevated situation, and the absence
of all noxious effluvia. There is no endemical disease. Cases of
wen sometimes occur, and at particular seasons, especially in spring
and autumn, the variation of the temperature and the prevalence
of rain occasion all kinds of catarrhal complaints, such as colds,
sore-throat, &c. and likewise diseases of the viscera, chest, and abdo-
men often accompanied by fluxes apd spasms. Typhus fever also
prevails more or less at these seasons. Yet, on the whole, the
quantity of disease is unusually small. In the village of New La-
nark, where the inhabitants are exclusively employed in the ma-
nufacture of cotton yarn, and exposed many hours at a time to the
inhalation of an atmosphere loaded with cotton flocculi and dust,
numerous cases of pulmonary disease might be expected. Yet, on
consulting the medical records of that extensive establishment, such
cases are found to be much rarer, in proportion to the number of the
inhabitants, than in the neighbouring town. This may arise part-
ly from the equable temperature which is maintained in the rooms
of the manufactory, and partly from the low and sheltered situa-
tion of the place, exposing the inhabitants less to the infuence of
those exciting causes which would bring the latent disease into
action.
	Hydrography.--There is no extensive sheet of water in the pa-
rish. Lang-loch, to the south-east, is the largest. There are places,
however, which bear evident marks of having formerly been under
water, Particularly the low valley Adjoining the house of Lee, amount,
ing to more than 100 acres.
	The River Mouss, which we have mentioned as traversing the
parish from east  to west, has its source in the northern parts of
Carnwath moor. It draws its contributions principally from the


