
			GIRTHON.                          297

a family of one son and daughter, the latter, (Anna,) being mar-
ried to Richard Murray of Broughton. John Lennox* renounced
all right and title to his various estates, and conveyed them to his
son-in-law, the laird of Broughton, and his son Robert afterwards
concurred in the destination. The residence of Richard Murray,
which had previously been at Broughton, in Wigtonshire, was
transferred to Cally, which has ever since continued the seat of
the Murray family.
	The founder of the family of Murray of Broughton came from
Morayshire and settled at Broughton, Wigtonshire, in the twelfth
century, since which time they have ranked among the magnatds
of Galloway. The first lands which they acquired in the stew-
artry of Kirkcudbright, were obtained by a marriage with a daughter
of Murray of Cockpool, (Dumfries-shire). The lands thus ob-
tained, and which still belong to the family, were Kirkarsel and
others in the parish of Rerrick; and one of the monks of Dun-
drennan having been suspected of improper intimacy with "Lady
Broughton," her husband slew him at a place called Allan's
Cross till this day. Murray was obliged to pay a fine, as a com-
pensation for the murder, to the abbey, which fine (L.10,) has-
continued to be, and is stil paid to the Crown since the demoli-
tion of the monastery. George Murray of Broughton was one
of the Lords of the Bed-chamber to James VI., and, for his fur-
ther services, had various grants of land given him in Ireland,
(which still belong to the family,) as also several superiorities in
Scotland, (Nisbet's Heraldry, i. 256.) Richard Murray, who,
married the heiress of Cally, died in 1690; and Alexander Mur-
ray, M. P., the present representative of the family, is his great
grandson. There are no collateral descendants of the Lennoxes
of Cally or Murrays of Broughton known to exist.
	Cally.--This mausion, one of the most splendid seats in Scot-
land belonging to a private gentleman, is built (1763) wholly of
granite, being the first attempt of working that kind of stone hn
the south of Scotland. It was constructed after a design by
Milne the architect, but has been modernised and signally im-
proved by its present proprietor. It contains a good collection
of pictures, and in its unrivalled marble vestibule, are some fine
pieces of sculpture, including a noble head of Bonaparte by Thor-

<FOOTNOTE>This John Lennox, previously to his succeeding to the Cally estates, was de-
signed of Plunton, or more commonly Lennox-Planton, in the parish of Borgue.
He was the lineal representative of Thomas Lennox Plunton, second son of John,
the fourth of Cally.--(Case of Margaret Lennor, ut supra, 30-3.)


