
			STEVENSTON.	                     435

that it will soon do credit to its Scottish origin. We have long
had a yearly vintage of some dozens of good wine from our vine-
yard; but we must own that we are much more indebted to the
prunings than to the grapes. The leaves and young wood con-
tain much vinous juice, and when in fused in boiling water, and
some sugar added, yield a light sparkling wine called vinello, supe-
rior, we doubt not, to the Vicar of Wakefield's celebrated home-
made wine.
	From the vegetable world also, we have the surest proofs of
the mildness of our winters. Myrtles stand the winter without
any cover, but flower only sparingly unless they have bad some
slight protection from the frost. Verbena triphylla, and Passi,
flora caerulea, and Fuschia coccinea. F. gracilis, and F. conica,
stand the winter, and flower profusely in summer. Erica arborea
flowers in the open border, and even Erica Caffra stood several
winters, and flowered in the open air. The lovely Cyclamen Coum,
which will not stand the winter in the inland parts of the country,
seerms as hardy here as its compeer the snowdrop. Agapanthus
umbellatus, or great African blue lily, and also Calla Ethiopica,
brave our winters. Gladiolus grandiflorus, and Iris tuberosa
flower without winter protection. The cape plant, Tritoma media,
flowers from November till June; and at Christmas, unless it be
hard frost, we can form a nosegay from the open border, of from
twenty-five to fifty different kinds of flowers.
	The comparative mildness of our climate may be more evident
from the subjoined record of the days when several plants begin
to flower, marking the earliest and the latest times of cominence-
ment; and also the average time, taken from observations made
during a considerable number of years. These observations were
chiefly made at the Manse, which stands on elevated ground sixty-
three feet above the level of the sea. Had they been made at Sea
Bank, which is considerably better sheltered, and fully forty feet
lower, the period of flowering would have been earlier by some days.
	Hepaticas.--Earliest time of flowering 5th November; latest
time 17th February. Average time of six years, 16th December.
	Cyclamen Coum.--Earliest, 23d December; latest, 27th Fe-
bruary. Average of six years, 24th, January.
	Scilla Sibirica.--Earliest, 5th December; latest, 11th February.
Average of six years, 14th December.
	Snowdrops.--Earliest, 9th January; latest, 31st January. Ave-
rage of nine years, 18th January.


