
		MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                             725

lednock, towards the north or north-west, comprehending Carro-
glen, Balmuicks, Laggan, and Lurg. The superficial extent of
the parish, making allowance for irregularities, may thus be com-
puted at or about 35 square miles, and may contain about 22,000
imperial acres.
     Mountain Ranges, &c.-A ridge of the Grampian mountains,
running from east to west, forms the north boundary of the parish.
The highest mountain of this part of the range is Benchonzie, i. e.
the mossy mountain (there being about 40 acres on its summit
covered with a species of whitish moss), on the northern extremity
of the parish. Its elevation above the level of the sea is 2922
feet. Turleum, a hill on the south-east extremity of the parish,
is about 1400 feet above the level of the sea. Betwixt the lower
hills which skirt the base of the Grampian range on the north,
and Turleum on the south-east, Laggan, Drummachargan, and
Tom-a-chastel, a connected series of picturesque, conical hills,
stretch on the cast side of the parish in an oblique direction south,
or rather south-west, across the valley of the Earn. These beau-
tiful knolls, closely clad with copse, and o'ertopped with stately firs
planted alone, their summits, present a fine contrast to the bold,
craggy face of the higher surrounding mountains, and a scene of
great romantic beauty to the eye of the traveller. They are sepa-
rated from the lower ridge of the Grampian hills on the north, by
a pass through which the northern branch of the Lochearn turn-
pike road leads from Crieff, along the finely wooded margin of the
Loch of Monivaird, by Comrie to Lochearnhead, and they ter-
minate on the south, with Tom-a-chastel already mentioned. At
this point, through a pass or defile still narrower, the Earn flows
in a swift strong but smooth current, and along its south bank the
other branch of the Lochearnhead road leads to Comrie, where it
joins the northern branch, and also the Glenlichorn road from
Comrie to Stirling.
     Emerging from either of the passes just noticed, the valley
again opens up on the west towards Comrie, and exhibits to  the
eye a delightful amphitheatre, richly diversified with every variety
of natural beauty, wood, and water, hill and dale, and surrounded
by lofty mountains on every side, over which Benchonzie, Ben-
voirlich, and Benmore, are seen towering in the distance,-
now raising their green summits to the skies,-now enveloped in
robes of cloud and mist,-and again cronwed with their diadems
of snow. On the north, the lower ridges of the Grampians, co-


