
46                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

the horses' feet and the cart wheels. But some years ago, two
commutatinn roads have been made to intersect the parish breadth-
ways; the one coming from the turnpike in the village of Laurence-
kirk, and the other coming from the same turnpike about four miles
further east, and both leading down to the coast-side turnpike,
which has opened up a direct and comparatively easy communica-
tion between the Howe of the Mearns and the coast side through
this parish. Besides these, several other cross roads have been
made through the parish, so that our principal bar to improvement
has, in a good measure, been removed; and, to the credit of the
tenants in Garvock, the surface clearly proves that they have not
neglected the opportunity afforded them.
        Ecclesiastical State.-Concerning the early history of the church
of Garvock, tradition is silent. In the churchyard, which contains
about three-fourths of an acre, the ground in Garvock, when it
was set apart, not being so valuable as it is now, the oldest grave-
stone is dated 1643, "In memory of William Greig" (a smith,)
"ane famous honest man." The church is nearly centrical. The
present house was built in 1778, neatly seated, with two galleries,
and ceiled, and can accommodate about 300 sitters. No seats let,
the whole having been divided among the heritors according to
their valued rents, and by them divided among their tenants. The
roof has undergnne various reparations, and is at present in a pretty
good state. A stone in the wall, taken from her predecessor, bearing
the date of 1678, shows that she had stood just one hundred years.
	The manse, although no date on it, is fixed by a traditionary
story to have been built about 1745. A tenant of the name of
Strachan in the parish, an Episcopalian, or non-jurant, as they were
then called, and whose son was bred an Episcopal clergyman, is
said to have frequently called on the masons then building the
manse, and interested himself much in the arrangement of the
workmanship, as thinking himself quite sure, that should the Pre-
tender, then in the field, prove victorious, this manse would become
the habitation of his own son. But the battle of Culloden de-
termined matters otherwise. The manse and offices have under-
gone frequent repairs; the last was in 1822, and they are at present
in a tolerable good state.
	The glebe contains nearly 6 acres arable, which most conve-
niently surround the church, manse, and offices on three sides,
and, about 2 acres pasture, which shut up the fourth or north-east
side. Most of the arable part consists of a good deep black loamy,
				4


