
544                   ARGYLESHIRE.

lic meetings, which at one period exhibited scenes of revel-
ry and drunkenness in this parish, are now conducted in such a
way, as to show a decided improvement in the habits of the people.
Illicit distillation of whisky and other kinds of smuggling, which
at one time were carried on to an alarming extent, are now all but
suppressed.

   October 1843.

                  COLONSAY AND ORANSAY.

          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--THESE islands form one island when the tide retires,
but are separated at flood-tide by an arm of the sea a mile broad,
where it is usually crossed.  At the point where they approach
nearest, the islands are not above 100 yards apart.  By the
Highlanders, the name of Eilean tarsuing is given to the whole
island, and it is so called with reference to its apparent position
to the eye of the mariner, (tarsuing meaning in Gaelic oblique);
but the two islands are generally known under the names of
Colonsay and Oransay.  These names are evidently Scandi-
navian, and signify the islands of St Columba nd St Oran,
a companion of St Columba's, well-known to tradition.  Pre-
viously to the occupation of the Western ' Islands by the Scan-
dinavians, the larger island, (if not both,) seems to have
been called Hymba.  There is an old tradition, that St
Columba had an establishment in Colonsay before he went to
Iona ; and as Adomnan, in his life of St Columba, frequently
mentions Hymba as the name of an island in which the saint
resided before he went to Iona, and that Ernanus, the Oran of
tradition, was the first Abbot of the monastery be established
there; and as the smaller island is called the island of St Oran,
and the old'churcb in Colonsay was . called Killoran, or Church
of Oran, there seems little doubt of the identity.  Colonsay way
therefore boast of being the first of the Western Islands in which
the Christian church was established.
   Extent.--The Islands of Colonsay and Oransay are from the
southern end of Oransay to the northern of Colonsay, about 12
miles long and from 1 to 3 broad; the Superficial contents are
about 9000 Scotch acres, of which one-third are meadow or ara-
ble ground.


