
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities and Curiosities.-Besides the castle of Cadzow,
already mentioned, the vestiges of a few othew are still to be
seen in the parish, probably the seats of some of the lesser ba-
rons, in the middle ages; but tradition has not handed down
any thing respecting them, which deserves to be recorded.
Near the middle of the parish, is a Roman tumulus, which
has been of considerable extent.  About 20 years ago, one side
of it was broken into, and a good many urns found, contain-
ing the ashes of human bones, some them accompanied with
the tooth of a horse.  There was no inscription seen; but
some of the urns, which were all of baked earth, were plain,
others decorated with moulding, probably to distinguish the
quality of the deceast.  The old oaks in the Duke of Hamil-
ton's park, have always been regarded as a curiosity.  They
have, no doubt, been very majestic trees, some of them mea-
suring upwards of 27 feet round.  They stood irregularly at a
considerable distance from one another, covering a considera-
ble extent of pretty plain ground; and seem to be the last re-
mains of those antient forests, which, in former times, over-
spread the country.  They have been much diminished in
point of number, in the course of the present century; many
of them having been cut, many having fallen down, and ma-
ny of those that remain, having lost their tops and fine spread-
ing boughs, are now only mutilated trunks, covered with
short scrubby branches, still exhibiting the melancholy remains
of their former grandeur.  Among these venerable trees, graz-
ed the wild cows, mentioned by naturalists as an untamed na-
tive breed.  They seemed to differ in nothing from the domes-
tic kind, excepting that they were all over white, with black
or brown ears and muzzles; and, from their manner of life,
very shy, and even fierce, when they had not room to fly.  They
were exterminated, from economical motives, about the year
1760.  Here, also, the Duke of Hamilton has a park well


