
			CHEICH.                                653

of the parish, and at the distance of a mile from the church. The
glebe consists of about 4 1/2 acres of thin sharp soil, and its
yearly value is about L. 8. The stipend consists of 1 boll, 3
firlots, and 3 1/5 lippies, wheat; 8 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks barley;
3 bolls, 1 firlot, 3 1/5 lippies meal; 6 bolls, 1 firlot, 2 pecks, 1 3/5
lippies oats; and L. 209, 15s. 8 9/12d. money.
   There is no Dissenting chapel in the parish. The number 0 f
families belonging to the Established Church is 84, and the num-
ber of individuals of all ages belonging to the Established Church
is 380. The number of families of Dissenters is 10. The num-
ber of individuals of all ages of Dissenters is 45. Divine service
at the Established Church is generally well attended. The num-
ber of communicants at the Established Church, taking the ave-
rage of the last seven years, is 198,
   This parish has contributed liberally for religious and charita-
ble purposes.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish.
The usual branches of education are taught in it, and in a manner
which reflects credit upon Mr Miller, the present schoolmaster, as
being an able, diligent, and  successful teacher. The school is
generally attended in the winter months by about 65, and in the
summer by about 50. The fees per quarter for English reading
are 2s., and for writing, arithmetic, English grarnma geography
and mathematics, 6d. each additional, and for Latin 5s. The
children usually enter school at from four to six years of age, and
leave it at from ten to thirteen. The people in general are alive to
the benefits of education, and parents, in particular, are very, desir-
ous to procure a good education for their families. When, from
poverty, any are unable to do so, the session is always ready to
assist them, and there is none in the parish above eight years of
age who cannot read. The schoolmaster has the legal accommo-
dations of a dwelling-bouse, school-room, and garden. He has
the maximum salary, school fees amounting to about L. 18 per
annum, and the yearly interest of L. 2000 merks Scots.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Tbe average number of persons
receiving regular parochial aid is 5. They receive according to
their circumstances, each usually from 1s. to 1s. 6d. per week,
and each family a cart-load of coals at the beginning of winters.
Occasional aid is always afforded to a few, and to some there is
given merely a cart-load of coals during the year. The tenants
and resident proprietors give the driving of all the coals gratis.


