
 68                     BERWICKSHIRE.

early days of Presbytery in Scotland, John Spottiswoode was su-
perintendent of the Merse and Lothian, "which office," says an
old historian, "he discharged with advantage to the church, and
with honour both to himself and to posterity." The name of bis
son, the Archbishop, is so identified with the public history of the
period in which he lived, that it would be superfluous to detail it.
It may be sufficient to mention, that after having studied with great
eclat under the celebrated Andrew Melville, he was made an Ex-
traordinary Lord of Session; and having joined the ranks of Epis-
copacy, was successively raised to the Archbishoprick of Glasgow
and St Andrews,-had the high honour of crowning King Charles
1. at Holyroodhouse,-and was afterwards appointed Lord High
Chancellor of the kingdom. The reverse of fortune which befel
him in common with his order, from the national resistance to the
introduction of the liturgy into Scotland, overwhelmed him with
grief, and at last brought him to the grave. His remains were
interred in Westminster Abbey.
   Sir Robert Spottiswoode, son of the archbishop, was born in
1622. He rose to the dignity of a Privy-Counsellor and Lord of
Session, and afterwards to that of President of that court. The
prominent part which he acted in the cause of royalty made him
obnoxious to the Presbyterians, in consequence of which he was
specially excluded from the act of oblivion proposed to be passed
in 1641; but, after a short imprisonment, he was ordered to be set
at liberty, on finding caution "to conduct himself in away that would
tend to the peace and quietness of the kingdom." In 1643, he was
made Secretary of State; and while he was in Scotland executing
some commissions which that office required him personally to at-
tend to, he was taken prisoner at Philiphaugh,-tried by Parlia-
ment at St Andrews,-and sentenced to be beheaded at the mar-
ket cross. His character has been variously drawn by historians,
according to the principles of the party they have espoused; but
all allow that he had a great influence in the national councils of
that stormy period.
   John Spottiswoode, advocate, stands in the records of the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh as first professor of law in the earlier part of
the last century. He was the author of several excellent works on
jurisprudence,-particularly the well-known work on Stiles of Writ,
which has gone through many editions, and, as the preface inti-
mates, was written for the use of the students in Spottiswoode's
college of law.
   There was another member of this family who attained the rank


