
                               HOBKIRK.                         219

and as that will not affect lands in grass, the return from them is
always certain.
   It might be farther noticed, that the disease called finger-and-
toes is occasionally very hurtful to the turnip crop.  Lime has
been regarded as the most successful remedy, and bone manure
has been thought favourable. Amongst live-stock, the loup-
ing-ill is a severe scourge, the loss by it ranging from five to ten,
and even twenty per cent.  This disease, as yet little understood,
is attended with curious and very peculiar circumstances.   It is
attached to particular soils, most commonly to those where the
greywacke predominates; and it may be remarked, that stock
brought from a distance is more liable to it than what has been
reared on the ground.  It usually makes its appearance towards
the middle of April, with the withering east winds of that period,
and leaves the flock, (with the exception of a fdw irregular cases,)
about the middle of June.  It attacks sheep, cattle, and swine.
It resembles paralysis affecting the limbs, sometimes the head or
neck, and occasionally the back.  Wherever it occurs, the ver-
min called ticks are found to accompany it.  Severe bleeding at an
early stage of the disease has been practised with advantage; but
no infallible mode of treatment has been discovered for its cure.
By plentifully liming the soil, it has been eradicated from certain
farms.  Burning would probably have the like effect, as it is pre-
sumable the disease may be occasioned by the puncture of the in-
sects, with which it is always attended.  These, it is well known,
are bred in the earth, and get upon the sheep either by their legs
or by their muzzle when feeding.  Hence the parts usually affect-
ed are the limbs or the neck.  This interesting subject is well,
worth the serious attention of farmers.
   As a general improvement, perhaps, the opening of a road into
Tynehead would be the greatest of which the parish is susceptible.
By this means, abundance of coal might be procured at a cheap
rate for the poor, and likewise for burning the limestone, which
might be more extensively wrought at Limekilnedge and in Castle-
ton.  It would likewise furnish an ample and less expensive Supply
for the manufacturing town of Hawick and the neighbouring dis-
tricts. Thd attention of proprietors and tenants has been more
than once directed to this object; and it is deeply to be regretted,
that neither the prospect of an increased revenue, nor the desire of
conferring a great public boon on the west of Roxburghshire, in-
duces the Duke of Northumberland to countenance the scheme.,
   March 1836.


