
			    GLASGOW.			       103

where the ancient town was situated. In the landward parts of the
suburban parishes the soil is highly cultivated, and produces plen-
tiful crops.
        Climate. *--Climate commonly denotes the nature of the weather
usually prevalent in any particular district or country. Northern
climates are more favourable to health and longevity than tropi-
cal regions. The alternate change of seasons produces a variety,
which cheers the mind and acts upon the animal frame. Healthi-
ness in the mass of the people constitute an essential part of na-
tional prosperity, because without it labour cannot be performed.
Salubrious air and fertile soil contribute to produce an industrious
peasantry.
	As Glasgow has taken the lead in the formation of tables for exhi-
biting the probability of human life in large towns, we have felt it
right to give a particular account of the climate. In the second
edition of Cleland's folio Statistical work, pp. 102 to 109, the year-
ly quantity of rain is given for thirty years, as ascertained in the
Macfarlane Observatory, by Dr James Couper, Professor of Astro-
nomy in this University, showing an yearly average of 22.328
inches. The least quantity in any one year during that period
was 14.468 in 1803, and the greatest 28.554 in 1828. The quan-
tity of rain which falls at Glasgow is less than at Edinburgh: this
may be accounted for by the circumstance, that the former place
is nearly twenty miles inland from the west coast, and is therefore
beyond the immediate influence of the Atlantic, which renders some
parts of the north-west of England so rainy, while its distance from
the east coast, and the high land between it and Edinburgh, screen
it from those violent rains, when the east wind blows, which are so
common in Edinburgh. The distance of the hills from Glasgow
is greater than from Edinburgh, and it is in some degree screened
by high ground, both on the east and west.
	The state of the thermometer and atmospheric appearances is also
given in the work alluded to, every morning throught the year

<FOOTNOTE>"The two seas by which Sootland is bounded, in consequence of their difference
of temperature, have a remarkable effect on its climate. The German Ocean, which
stretches along the east coast, being of small extent and of no considerable depth, is
easily affected by the changes of the seasons on the adjacent continent, in so much
that it is three degrees colder in winter and five degrees warmer in sumler than the
Atlantic, which, without any material interruption, occupies the western coast of the
kingdom."
        "In summer, therefore, in consequence of the high comparative temperature of the
German Ocean, a copious evaporation takes place throughout its whole extent, which
produces these easterly hours, ar they are called, or thick raists, which are seen at a ces-
tain period of the day to arise from the sea; and which are not only dangerous to na-
vigation, but advancing upon the land render the eastern coast often highly disagres-
skin."--Sir John Sinclair's Statistical Amitysis of Scotland, p. 95.


