
                            GAMRIE.                          289

   them thrive uncommonly well, both the pure breed and the first
   cross from the Aberdeenshire. I can bring them, and have done
   so, to a greater weight at three years' old, than I used to have the
   native breed at four year's old; their quality. for feeding is decid-
   edly superior; but I do not consider they would be a proper stock
   for the parish, but on the best farms. I have no hesitation in say-
   ing, that for the same quantity of good keep, this will return more
   money than any other cattle that can be put upon it. But they,
   will never do to be sent to pasture on a heather hill.
      "I have kept a flock of about 200 Cheviot sheep for twelve years,
   bred from the best stocks in Ross-shire and Sutherland. They were
   at first Principally kept on natural grass pasture on the sea braes and
   burnside, and thrive remarkably well. Within the last few years I
   have crossed them with pure Leicester tups, which has increased their
   size, their propensity to fatten, and also the quantity of their wool.
   Since using the Leicester tups, I have, in addition to their former
   natural pasture, been in the habit of depasturing most of my thin
   arable land by them, which I consider a great advantage on' the
   poor land first because a sheep will fatten where an ox would
   starve, and second, the manner their dung is scattered over the
   land must add more to its fertility, than if the grass were eaten by
   cattle. I also allow them in spring a proportion of the turnips on
   tlie worst land, to be consumed on the groun& For the reasons
   I have stated above, it is my humble opinion that the poorest of
   the arable land in this parish would be more-profitable, if stocked
   with sheep, than with cattle."
      Duration of Leases, Crops, &c.-The general length of farm
   leases in this parish is for the period of nineteen years, A few
   old liferent leases still remain on the estate of Troup; but none
   are given in . that way now. The feus in Maeduff and Garden-
   ston are perpetual.
      The chief crops raised in the parish are oats. Barley is raised
   to a considerable extent, and Scotch bear on some of the farms;
   wheat, pease and beans, but rarely. Hay, potatoes, and turnips,
   are raised in regular rotation with oats. Large quantities of grain
   are shipped annually for the London and other markets, while
   barley and bear are generally sold to the home brewers, and dis-
   tillers.
      There are two rotations of cropping throughout the parish, ac-
   cording as the nature of the different farms is found suitabl, the
   seven years and the five years. The former consists of two crops


