
338                KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

attention to cleaning the land, and by following the most approved
rotation of cropping. There are still a few who cling to the old
system, and who would do well to imitate the example of their
more enterprising neighbours.
   The rotation that is perhaps best adapted to this parish is, one
grain crop-a green crop-a grain crop-and the land sown down
in rye grass and clover, not cut, but eaten on the ground, and to re-
main in pasture a longer or shorter period according to circumstances.
   Mr M'Lean of Mark, many years ago, received the Highland
Society's medal for reclaiming waste land. Improvement in this
way is still progressing, thotgh slowly. Indeed, some of the te-
nants have but little encouragement, being left to struggIe with a
heavy rent, a short lease, miserable houses, and wretched fences.
   Shelling land, which at one time was employed to a great ex-
tent in this parish, is now but little followed. There have been
about fifteen acres of land reclaimed upon the Cassencarrie shore
by an embankment of "rubbish" from the quarry, by the Liver-
pool Dock Trustees. The land is rapidly rising by the deposit
that is left by the ebbing and flowing of the tide, and the decom-
position of the salt water, and will soon be a field of valuable pas-
ture. There are many acres upon the shores of Kirkbride and
the glebe capable of being reclaimed by warping, a system which
has been introduced by the Hon. Montgomery Stewart on the
other side of the bay with great effect, and which is much cheaper
than embanking. Indeed, by this process the land is gradually
raised, and the tide is made to embank itself.*
   Leases.-There are a great many tenants in this parish under
yearly leases, a system which operates most powerfully against
improvement. Others are more fortunate in having longer leases.
They vary from three to nineteen years. There are a few old
leases even much longer, although not liferents. Some of the
old leases are upon very favourable terms to the occupant; but of
late years the competition for farms has become so great, that, it
is to be feared, in some of the new leases, the tenants are over-
rented. This is an evil which will eventually cure itself, but for
which, in the meantime, the tenants have themselves to blame.
The farm-houses upon the Kirkdale property are in general good,
and kept in excellent repair; and very neat and comfortable farm-
houses have been lately built at Cuil, Carsewalloch, &c.; but
upon several properties the houses are miserable.

<FOOTNOTE>This system was introduced by Mr Stewart on Lord Galloway's propert; se-
veral embankments have also been raised in the bay lately; and it is expected that
many hundreds of acres will soon be inclosed, and, in valuable pasture.



