
38                        SHETLAND.

all the information that can be wished for, as to the form and ex-
tent of the coast, &c.   The shores of Unst, like every other part
of Zetland, are deeply indented by numerous bays and creeks,
some of which are low and sandy.  The intervening headlands,
especially in the north-east, north, and west coasts, are bold, high,
precipitous rocks.  The principal bays are, Burrafirtb, on the
north; Norwick, and Haroldswick, and Sandwick, on the east;
Watswick and Wick, on the south-west; and Woodwick, on the
west side.  None of these are safe harbours.  Burrafirth and Nor-
wick are two deep sandy bays, quite open towards the sea.  Both
have a very romantic appearance, and a considerable extent of
good land on their shores, and are much admired by strangers
who occasionally visit this island.  The only safe harbours are,
Balta Sound, on the east coast, about the middle of the island,
completely covered from the sea by the grazing island of Balta,
the property of Thomas Edmondston, Esq. of Buness, whose ma-
nor house is situated near the bottom of the Voe, or harbour; and
Uyea Sound, on the south, covered by the island of Uyea, (about
a mile and a half long, and one mile in breadth, an appendage of
this parish, and the property of Thomas Leisk, Esq.)   The
grazing islands of Haaf Grunie and Huna, and the helms of Ska,
Burrafirth, Woodwick, Newgord, Heogaland, and Weatherholm,
belong to the proprietors of Unst, and lie along its shores, afford-
ing pasture for a considerable number of black-cattle and sheep.
   Hydrography.-The streams of tide off some of the extreme
points, especially off Hermanness, Ska, and Lambaness, are so
rapid and turbulent, that it is extremely dangerous, and often im-
possible for boats to cross them, even in moderate weather, and it
not unfrequently happens that the they perish in the attempt.
Perennial springs of excellent fresh water are most copious and
abundant in every part of the island; but there is nothing remark-
able either in their situation or character.
   Geology.-The chief rocks in this island are, gneiss, serpen-
tine, diallage rock, and chlorite slate.  Besides these the follow-
ing may also be enumerated, viz. talc slate, protogine, limestone,
quartz rock, hornblende rock, and mica slate.  The most import-
ant ore is the chrome ore, or chromate of iron.*

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners, in the order of the ex-

<FOOTNOTE>A beautiful mineral, the Hydrontagncaile of Professor Jameson, was discovered
by Dr Hibbert in considerable veins in serpentine at Swinaness.


