
                                DUNBOG.                205

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   Among the many improvement which have taken place since
the last Statistical Account was drawn up,-the great accession
made to the cultivated land,-the appropriation of unproductive
wastes to valuable plantations, and the increased attention paid to
draining, are deserving of high commendation. In consequence
of the recent deepening and widening of the Leven water-
course, the circumjacent soil has been rendered far less suc-
culent, and more susceptible of melioration. Similar beneficial
alterations are in progress on a part of the Lochty. Although
there is no savings' bank in the parish, yet some individuals with
laudable prudence and propriety, deposit a portion of their earn-
ings in some of those excellent institutions which happily exist in
the vicinity.

  June 1836.

                            PARISH OF DUNBOG.

                   PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                 THE REV. ADAM CAIRNS, D.D. MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-THE name of the parish is variously written in the an
cient records as Dinbug, Denbuig, Dunbog, Dunbolg, and Dun-
boig. It is evidently of Celtic derivation, and may be translated
"the bog of the hill." Like all Celtic names, it is descriptive, of
the general character of the district.  Within the memory of man,
the low-lying part of the parish was an extensive marsh, which ran
along the base of the highest hill in the north of Fife, anciently
denominated Dunmore, or the great hill, though now known by
the Saxon name Norman's Law. The Gaelic appellation, how-
ever, is still given to the property to which the mountain belongs,
and from this we infer that Dunbog is the original and correct name
of the parish.
  Extent, Boundaries.-The parish of Dunbog is of irregular
figure and diminutive extent.  It ranges from. south-east to
north-west, its greatest length not exceeding 4 miles; its ex-
treme breadth being about 1 1/2, and its least not  more perhaps,


