
     Statistical Account

   A house, formerly intended as a linen manufactory, and for
some time used as such, distant from the parish church 10
miles,was last year converted into a chapel of ease, for the accom-
modation of the people at Byth.  Application was made to the
Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, for the aid of
their bounty, who, with reservation of the right of patron-
age, agreed to give 25 L. a-year for the support of a clergy-
man, upon condition that the heritor of Byth would give se-
curity for the same sum, afford him a dwelling-house and
offices, with land sufficient to maintain a horse and a cows.
As these conditions are complied with, the affair will be esta-
blished on such a footing as to afford a decent living to the
missionary, and be a lasting advantage, not only to this pa-
rish, but to those parts of some neighbouring parishes, which
are also distant from their own churches.

   Agriculture, etc.-All the people, even those who are
handicraftsmen and artificers, are employed in agriculture.
According to their extent, and the quality of the land, the
rent of farms varies from 6 L. to 85 L., valuing the meal at 10 s.
per boll.  Improvements in agriculture have made consider-
able progress for some years past.  The mode of culture, and
rotation of crops, have undergone a great and almost total
alteration since the year 1745: Even later than that period,
the use and efficacy of lime as a manure* , the advantage of
artificial grasses, fallow, and green crops, were little known:
These are now so common, that not only the principal farm-
ers, but almost every cottager, has a proportion,of his land

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Instead of each farmer for himself burning lime at home, which till lately
the general practice, shell lime from England and the S. of Scotland is im-
ported by those principally who are distant from lime-stone.  It is only 5 or 6
years since this trade began, and so much has the demand increased, that 14
?? were imported as Macfuff this season.

</UNREADABLE>


