
     of Halkirk.

the service, the only object that occupies their attention is
to gather a few pence, to enable them to marry, and take
one of these small farms.  Thus they are impatient of the ser-
vice, and make it only a job of very secondary considera-
tion while they are in it.  Hence it is, that they leave the ser-
vice without any great stock or character, and reduce them-
selves to misery at last; whereas, if they had not the temp-
tation of these small tacks before them, necessity and self-
interest would compel them to make a character in the sev-
vice, because, in this case, their future prospects would en-
tirely depend upon it, having no immediate prospect of
being able to take a farm, which would require a great-
er flock than servants usually can afford.  Thus, the pa-
rish would be better accommodated in servants; and the
servants, on the other hand, would live more comfortably.
This is by no means meant to limit or circumscribe the
chances of servants.  No; on the contrary, it is their true
interest and welfare I aim at.
   There is yet another grievance occurs to me, and of
which these too small tacks are the occasion.  The conti-
nual necessities of their possessors put them on shifts for pre-
sent relief, which come upon them with vengeance at last.
They spend a great part of summer and harvest in carry-
ing peats and heather to Thurso, which would have been
more usefully and profitably bestowed on the necessary
purposes of the farm.  Had this time and labour they sub-
tract from the farm been in any tolerable degree compen-
sated by their profits in this business of carriage, there
would be less to say.  But this is not the case; for the va-
lue they get for their time and labour is very inconsider-
able; and what makes it more so is, that a great part, if
not the whole of it, is spent uselessly before they return;
and their horses, which are a great part of their stock, are
both jaded and starved.  Had they been near the town,

     VOL. XIX. I


