
                          KILDONAN.                        137

appear to be the revolving columns, disappear in -the eastern ho.

rizon, xi nder the earth's' shade.-
.This pdrish is particularly healthy, and there are no distem-

pers which can be said to be prevalent among the inhabitants.
Rheumatic pains sometimes affect aged people; but these Pro-

bably arise from sudden changes from beat to cold, and from'

inattention to the due regulation of their clothing in the win-
ter season.  Fevers have been of late years unknown; and, in

1832, when  malignant cholera raged at Helmsdale, at the foot
of the stratb, and within nine miles of the church of Kildonan,
no case,of that mysterious and fatal disease occu"ed in the pa.!-
rish.  Consumption, ague., and cutaneous eruptions are all un-
known.  Apothecaries' drugs are almost never called for; and the
inhabitants generally, having a sufficiency of substantial food, com-
fortable dwelling-bouses, and being of temperate and active habits
enjoy uninterrupted health, and a buoyancy of spirits which gives

promise of long life.
Hydrography.-The river Helmsdale or Me is the leadi6g
stream in the parish, through which it runs a course of upwards of
twentv miles.  It receives its waters from some lakes in the upper,
parts of the parish, and from many niountain-streams and torrents

which swell its stream in  .all parts of its course. After leaving

this parish, the river has a run of more than two miles in the pa-
rish of Loth until it enters the sea at Helmsdale, where its- mouth
form's the.harbour of that village.  The upper district of Kildonari
is remarkable for the number and size of its lakes.  Loch-na-cuen
is one of the largest of them, and is of narriented with two or three
small islands, and several winding bays.  It has char and other
varieties of trout, but is considered rather an indifferent angling
lake.  Loch-leam-na-clavan lies between the two mountains, -Ben
Griam-more and Ben Griam-beg, and has trout of different va-
rieties, of the largest size of any lake in the district.  There are

also a great many char in its waters, but they are of a stnall size.
This is an excellent angling lake, particularly with a south wind.
Loch Badanloch and Lochinruar are also large lakes, and abound
_,och-ascai
iia trout and char. Loch-ari diny, I               9, LocAao-ganuh,

Loch-altan-fezrn, Loch-cor-na-maugh, Loch-na-moins Loch-na-

clar, Loch Truderscaig, Loch Cuillie,      and. Loch Leimn, are, all

likewise in the upper parts of the parish, and all abound with
trout, and many of them I with char; but iris somew hat remarka-
ble that pike have never been found in any of tbeselakes, nor;         .
Irish

deed, in any of the numerous waters in. the county of Sutherlan&

SUTHERLAND..


