
444                               AYRSHIRE.

	 Besides the above-mentioned slip, there are several of less con-
sequence, adjoining to Saltcoats harbour, which, being at the
western extremity of the parish, can have little influence on any
operations carried on within the bounds.
     The line of bearing of this coal-field is in an eastern and a
western direction. The dip of the strata is southward, and the
rise consequently is to the north, which dip and rise decline on
an average from the horizon, about 1 in 7 1/2.
	The operations of the late Robert R. Cuninghame, Esq. were
at first chiefly at the Misk, next, from the Piper-haugh westward.
But from 1784, till lately, the mining operations in this parish were
chiefly confined to a winning made by steam machinery, which gain-
ed the five-quarter, parrot, turf, and little coal, at the depth of
54 1/2 fathoms. The chief engine employed here is on the Watt and
Bolton construction. It was made by Mr John Nelson, Glasgow,
and is thought of first rate excellence. The cylinder is 5 feet in
diameter, with 8 feet stroke; and pumps 15 1/2 inches bore, dis-
charging 4 tons of water per minute.
     Of late, a mine has been run to the dip across the strata, and a
pit sunk at the extremity, which gives the Bow-bridge, five-quar-
ter, parrot, turf, and little coal, at the depth of 70 fathoms.
About two years ago a pit was sunk near Bog, called No. 6, which
gives the main coal, at the depth of 44 fathoms; and they are at
present engaged in sinking a pit, No. 7, which will give the same
coal, close on the Garnock.

<TABLE>

Section of the various strata known to exist in Stevenston Colliery,
          as far as its operations have extended.
		                             	   Rock, &c. Stata.         Coal Strata.
                         		       	     Fath. Ft. In.	    Fath. Ft. In.

Sand,					                          4   0    0
Sandstone,				                          8   0    0
Clay schistus, blaes, or till,		              4   0    0
Hard stone, like marble, full of Unio urii,             0   1    0
Various strata,	                                     10   0    0
1. Bow-Bridge Coal.--This coal is cubical, of good	  0   3    2
   quality, but tender.  Head coal, 10 inches; stone,
   10 inches; lower band, 2 feet, 2 inches;-tlie pave-
   ment very soft; the roof good.
   The fine sandstone or freestone of Ardeer or Ste-
     venston quary,				            10	0    0
   Slate clay, or till, &c.                            6    0    0
2.Crawford Coal.--This coal is cubical, and of good
  quality, rather tender. It is divided into two bands
  of 2 feet each. On the east side of the Capon-
  Craig Gaw, the dividing stone is soft, and about 4
  feet thick, and the roof and pavement are soft. On
  the west side the coal is better, the division-stone
  thinner, and the roof and pavement good,		 0    4    0


