
     Statistical Account

the grounds of Glendinning, Sir James Johnstone retains two
fourth shares.  He has let one fourth share to Captain Cochran,
and another to Mr. Tait.  The company has built a smelting
house in the neighbourhood of the mines, in which the ore is
manufactured.  It is made into sulphurated antimony, and re-
gulus of antimony.  When the ore is beaten small, and wash-
ed, it is put into an earthen pot, the bottom of which is per-
forated with a number of holes.  This pot is let into the
mouth of another which serves as a receiver.  They are then
put into the furnace; and several sets of this apparatus are
commonly worked at once.  The fluid antimony passes through
the holes into the undermost pot, while the unfusible matters
remain in the uppermost: What is found in the undermost
pot, when the process is finished, is called sulphurated anti-
mony.
   Regulus of antimony is prepared in the following manner.
The ore, when beaten small and washed, is put into a cruci-
ble, and, along with it, a certain preparation of iron, and an
alkaline flux: the crucible is then placed in a furnace; and
the iron having a greater affinity to the sulphur, than the sul-
phur has to the ore, separates the one from the other, mak-
ing the sulphur swim on the top of the fluid metal: The
matter in the crucible, when sufficiently heated, is poured in-
to a cast iron cone, from which it is taken when cooled, and
then the sulphur readily separates from the metal.  The me-
tal is again beaten into small pieces, put a second time into
a crucible in the furnace, and melted, with a mixture of anti-
mony and an alkaline flux; it is then poured into a vessel of a
conical shape, from which it is taken, when cooled, having
the form of a large sugar loaf, and a fine starry surface.  Its
texture is full of little shining veins, or threads, like needles,
and is brittle as glass.  Regulus of antimony is a common in-
gredient in speculums, in bell metal, in types for printing, etc.


