
			LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.              1107

wren, gold-crested wren, common sparrow, heather sparrow, yel-
low hammer, robin redbreast, bluebonnet, oxeye, and fieldfare.*
         Botany.-In Murray's Northern Flora, Culmelly is given as a
station for a hairy variety of Veronica scutellata, the banks of the
burn of Lynturk for Asperula odorata, and the parish generally
for a variety of Campanula rotundifolia with white flowers.  Py-
rola secunda is found in the wood of Craigievar, near the cas-
tle, and the Aivron or cloudberry, abounds in a part of the glen
of Cushnie, hence called the Aivroni brae.
         Plantations.-In former times planting was much neglected
here, though wood tends so greatly to beautify and improve a
a country, especially when high, mountainous, and exposed `s
this is. Its advantages are now fully understood, and about 1500
acres imperial have been planted, mostly within the last twenty years.
Of this about 950 acres are on the property of Craigievar and
Corse, 260 on Lynturk, 230 on Cushine, and 70 on Hallhead.
All these late plantations consist almost exclusively of Scotch fir and
larch. The former promises well, but the latter, after thriving very
well for ten or fifteen years, is all but universally going to decay.
The stem becomes covered with a grayish or whitish parasitic pro-
duction like moss, the top shoots wither, and the plant in a few
seasons perishes altogether. This prevails widely at present
among the young plantations of larch all over the district.  The
ash, beech, and plane seem very well adapted to our soil and
climate, and attain a large size. Of this we have proof in some
fine old ashes and beeches near the Castle of Craigievar, an
avenue of planes leading to the mansion-house of Cushnie, and a
magnificent beech near that of Hailhead, the trunk of which is
twelve feet in girth.  Several of the plantations are already found
very useful in supplying thinnings both for paling, and fuel.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         Accounts of the Parish.-There are short notice. both of
Leochel and Cushnie in a View of the Diocese of Aberdeen, MS.
in the Advocates' Library in Edinburgh; and a brief description
of Cushnie contained in Macfarlane's Geographical Collections,
MS. in the same repository, was published in the Edinburgh Ma-
gazine for 1761, Vol. v. p. 187.
         Proprietors of Land.-The first possessors of land in the pa-
rish of Leochel, so far as can be ascertained from ancient records,
were the Earls of Mar. Between the years 1165 and 1170, Gil-

<FOOTNOTE>This list was obligingly furnished by Mr Wilson, gamekeeper to Sir John For-
bes, whose names are retained as being most intelligible to the common reader.


