
     160                      ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   Rivers.-There is not a river of any Magnit de in all the Parish
of Lochs, excepting the river Creed, which separates the parish
of Lochs from the parish of Stornoway. The largest river in the
parish is that of Laxay; it runs out of Loch Trialivall, already
noticed,--which loch is fed by Loch Adigo, in the parish of Uig.
This river is 3 miles long and about 30 feet broad, and is generally
About 15 inches deep. The other numerous streams are so trifling
as not to merit notice.
   Geology.-- The parish of Lochs presents a very rocky aspect
everywhere, except in the interior, where it is soft and mossy,
and where the number of lakes cannot fail to excite the stranger's
astonishment. Indeed, so much fresh water on so small an extent
of ground, is not elsewhere to be seen in the British dominions.
   Soil.-- The soil is uniformly mossy, reduced in some places, by
dint of industry, to a state of indifferent cultivation. It is generally
black, composed of decayed vegetable matter, with an occasional
mixture of gravel. The depth of the soil varies very much. It is
generally thin in the spots reduced to cultivation, which renders it
necessary for the agriculturist to gather it together, leaving a
wide space of bare stones between every crooked ridge. The moss
is ten feet deep in some places, and is rapidly increasing. Its pro-
duct being the coarsest of heath is not grateful food for cattle; it
therefore decays annually, covering the spot from which it springs
with a thin stratum, that progressively increases the moss on which
it grows.
   Zoology.-- The Island of Lewis abounds with sheep, black-cattle,
horses and red-deer; all of which are of a very diminutive size, in
consequence of the rough unsubstantial heath which constitutes
the chief part of their food. When the Lewis cattle are brought
to better pasturage in the south, they improve astonishingly; and,
from their hardy nature, they suffer less in driving than any other
cattle in the north. The native sheep are very similar to the breed
peculiar to North Wales. Their wool is finer; but that breed is
nearly extirpated, and the common black-faced and Cheviot breeds
have been introduced into the island, by Dr Macaulay of Linshadir
and Mr Stewart of Valimas, the only capitalists who have done
much to finprove the breed of sheep and cattle in the Lewis.
  Game is not very allundant in the Lewis. There are no rab-
bits nor roes. There are a few hares, which are, in common with
all the quadrupeds here, diminutive in size. In the feathered tribes,


