
                             AIRLIE.		         683

plain or naked fallow, once so general, is now seldom to be seen,
except for some very particular reason; and the old practice of
taking two white crops in succession after old grass is almost en-
tirely disused. Most of the deep and expensive drains and levels,
were made prior to 1820, when the damp and marshy grounds
were first brought under cultivation. Furrow draining, both by
tiles and stone, has since been introduced to complete the process
of improvement. The arid soils are generally kept in heart by
means of turnips raised with bone-dust, and eaten off by sheep. It
may be mentioned, as an instance of the progress of rural improve-
ment, that the young stock of sheep from the Grampians, which
were formerly brought down to be wintered in this parish on the
natural grass and broom, are now sent to the higher pastures nearer
the coast, and, on their return in spring, are frequently put in
order to improve their condition, upon turnips grown on the very
same grounds from which they formerly cropped a scanty herbage.
   Shell-marl is still in use as a manure, but not to the same ex-
tent as formerly. From twenty-five to thirty bolls is a common
dressing tn an imperial acre. It is much used for making com-
posts with moss and dung, and is considered as very good for
grass, but not equal to lime in producing grain, although it yields
a great quantity of straw. During the war, it usually sold at one
shilling per boll of eight cubic feet, the expense of taking it out
being from twopence to threepence. The price is at present nine-
pence. It is now usually sold to go farther up the country. Bone-
dust, rape-cake, and the whole, host of modern manures, are more
or less in use. The first, especially, has been extensively employ-
ed for more than twenty years. An occasional supply of town-
manure is obtained from Dundee, to which a decided preference
is given by the tenantry above every other description of manure.
The best mode of applying it is found to be by mixing it with the
dung of the farm-yard.
   The practice of paying the reaper by the threave, instead of by,
days' wages, now generally adopted in this and the adjoining coun-
ties, originated about forty years ago in this parish, on the farm of
Linross, then occupied by Mr George Kirkcaldy. While, by this
mode, the corn is more carefully and economically cut down it is
at the same time fairer to the labourer, whose gains are, propor-
tioned to his exertions; and it is peculiarly advantageous to those
who are necessarily engafed at home during part of the day. The
usual rate of payment has long been threepence per threave for


