
                               WILTON.                            79

rate of L. 5 for an ox or cow, kept for a year, and 6s. for a ewe or
full-grown sheep, upon unimproved land.  The. real rent of the
parish in 1827 was somewhat more than L. 6000.
   Rate of Wages.--Married farm-servants are hired for the year,
and their wages, which are paid chiefly in kind, may be valued at
from L. 25 to L. 28.  Single servants are hired by the half year,
and receive from L. 6 to L. 7 in summer, and from L. 4 to L. 5
in winter, besides board.  Day-labourers receive 2s. per day in
summer, and 1s. 6d. in winter; women, 10d. in summer, and 8d. in
winter for out-door labour.
   Masons and carpenters, by the day, are paid a little more than
common labourers.  Mason-work, per contract may be done for
36s to 40s. per rood, for workmanship only; or from L. 5 to L. 7,
according to circumstances, materials being furnished.  Roofing
with house timber is about Is. per square yard for workmanship.
Joisting and flooring, 1s. 6d, per square yard. A farm cart costs
about L. 9, with all furnishings; a wooden plough, (now seldom
used) about L.3.  Country smiths are generally paid in stated
sums (about L. 3) a-year for each pair of horses kept upon a farm.
This includes shoeing and repairing plough irons and harrows.
   Husbandry.--The system of husbandry generally pursued is the
four or five-shift rotation; but it is thought the land is gradually dete-
riorated by this mode of cropping, and would require to rest longer
in grass.  Turnips are generally sown for a fallow crop, exect on
wet lands, when clean fallow, succeeded by a crop of wheat, is pre-
ferred.  Some attempts have lately been made to raise spring wheat
in the lower part of the parish, but the success has not been such as
to encourage that practice, except in the most sheltered situations.
   The greatest part of the wet land in the parish has been
drained, but in such a superficial manner, that in many cases the
drains require to be renewed.   A better system, however, has
now been introduced, and is generally practised.  A good deal of
expense has been incurred in embanking the river Tiviot, but much
still requires to be done.
    The duration of leases is generally fifteen or nineteen years,--
except upon the Duke of Buccleuch's estate, where it is only nine,
but the leases are usually renewed at the end of that period.
   The farm-buildings in the parish are mostly old, and, in many
   cases, insufficient for the accommodation of the farm.  The land
is all inclosed, and the arable land subdivided chiefly by thorn
hedges, which are well kept, and thriving.


