
                      LOCHWINNOCH.                             95

guns. Great guns were used by the English in the siege of Berwick
in 1405, but for some time after this, our forefathers, especially in
Scotland, retained an attachment to their ancient mode of warfare
with bows and arrows. This castle then with both its slits and gun-
ports, seems to have been built in the fifteenth century, when they
were passing from the one mode of warfare to the other. It consists
of four stories. The first or ground-floor is arched to secure horses
and other cattle in times of danger. The second contains the great
hall, and the other stories different apartments for different pur-
poses. It has a rampart or battlement at the top, and a turret at
each corner. The large door is thick, and studded with strong
spikes, having broad heads. It was lighted with 16 windows, and
is about 35 feet long, and 26 broad, and the walls are about 4 feet
thick. This castle is delightfully situated on a head-land a little
west from the village, and commands a view of Barr House, the
village, Crook Hill, the loch, Peel, and much of the adjacent scenery
already described.
  Elliston Castle is a small square building. It was the residence
of the Sempill family before 1500, and stands on the opposite side
of the loch from'the present mansion-house. It must have been
built before the use of gunpowder, but when repairs were made in
later times, gun-ports were formed in its walls. Its length is 42
feet over the walls, its breadth 33 feet, and its height from 20 to
30 feet, being higher in some places than others. The end walls
are from 8 to 9 feet thick, and the side walls about 6 1/2 feet. In
the east and west walls there is an opening opposite to one another,
and arched over the top, which might have been doors, but which
from their elevation in the walls, appear like large windows. Au-
cbinbathie tower stands on the side of the publish road readings to
Dunlop, Stewarton, &c. It is surrounded by some old trees, and
cultivated land,-- memorials of the wealthy inhabitants, by whom it
must have been occupied. We have said it was no doubt the man-
sion-house of the  progenitors of Sir William Wallace. It is not
so large as either of the castles already mentioned, though Iess di-
lapidated than the second. It is 29 feet long, from 10 to 12 broad,
but it is probable that only a portion of the side walls remain, and
its greatest height is about 17 feet. There is a small building em-
bosomed within these ancient walls, and therefore, instead of being
the mansion-house of a distinguished family, they are now an out-
house for cattle.
  Besides these, there were other ancient castles, of which little


