
                        COLDINGHAM.                           281

naliS, Menyanthes trifoliata, Tormentilia reptans, Pyrola rotundi-
folia, Pyrold media, Dianthus deltoides, Genista Anylica, Fedia
olitoria, Gentiana campestris, Trollius Europaeus, Lythrum salica-
ria, Parnassia palustris, Solanum dulcamara, &c.

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   St Abb.-About the beginning of the seventh century, Ebba,
daughter of Ethelfrith, and sister to the celebrated Osway, both
Kings of Northumberland, fled from Penda, King of Mercia, who
was desirous to marry her, and seize her father's kingdom. Hav-
ing embraced Christianity, she abhorred an alliance with a pagan,
and resolved to escape from his entreaties and his violence. The
vessel in which she embarked was driven ashore in a storm on that
promontory which from her derives its name, St Abb. There she
built a nunnery. A few of the foundation stones still stand on the
verge of a rock overhanging the sea. Nowhere could she have
found a more suitable situation for such a purpose. Remote from
the world, the surrounding scenery is in harmony with every devout
feeling. The neck of land, five acres in extent, on which it was built,
stretches into the sea, having for its three sides perpendicular rocks
of great elevation. The fourth side, by which alone an enemy could
have approached, was cut off from the mainland, and rendered im-
pregnable by a high wall and deep trench, while the immense height
and ruggedness of the stupendous rocks by which it was surrounded,
the overhanging precipices on which it stood, the dark caverns yawn-
ing beneath, the boundless expanse of ocean stretching in front,
elevate the soul, and excite a religious tone of feeling. In a storm
the situation is sublime in the extreme. The walls are drenched,
and the atmosphere darkened by the spray. The building trembles
to its foundation at the beating of the surge upon the precipice
where it stands. A wild waste of broken waters rolls over the
mighty masses of rock that lie scattered around, or, dashing with
a stunning sound against the headland of St Abb's, shoot into the
air. Here, amidst the greatest and grandest of nature's works,
was the nunnery of St Abba founded. It is recorded in history,
that the abbess and her nuns, about the year 837, to escape the
licentiousness of the Danes, disfigured their faces by cutting off
their upper lips and noses; but that the cruel invaders, unmoved by
this act of devoted heroism, burnt the nunnery to the ground with
all its inhabitants. The chapel of this nunnery and the cemetery
which surrounded it, stood a mile to the east, on another mount.
Little of them now remains; but the old inhabitants remember when


