
476			AYRSHIRE.

The climate has its full share of the moisture of the western coast;
though, perhaps,not so wet on the whole as that of some parishes
in the vicinity. It is, however, far from being unhealthy, which
is proved by the very rare occurrence of epidemics, and likewise
by the number of aged persons in the parish.
   Hydrography.--The water of Lugar rises OD the east side of
the parish, and is formed by the junction of the Glenmore and
Bella waters, about two miles above the town of Cumnock. It
forms the boundary between Cumnock and Auchinleck, passing
the town of Cumnock on the north side, and taking a westerly di-
rection until it flows into the Ayr water at Barskimining: thus
running a course of about ten miles. The scenery on the banks
of the Lugar is of the most romantic and picturesque description;
sometimes bold projecting naked crags overbang its course--at
other places, is seen a perpendicular wall of rock, more than a hun-
dred feet in height, rising out of the water,--while again, you are
called to admire the deep ravines through which it flows, wooded on
both sides from top to bottom; the trees now waving their foliage
in the pure stream below, and again intertwining their branches
on the heights above. A little above the town, it almost forms
a circle, by winding its course nearly round a small hill, called the
Moat, which is fidely wooded from the top to the bottom on all
sides. The high and finely wooded banks, together with the
beautiful meanderings of the stream, as seen from this peninsular
hill, present an extremely picturesque appearance. There is also
another rivulet called the Glasnock water, that intersects the town
of Cumnock, and flows into the Lugar at the lower end of the
town. This stream has its source in a lake that lies on the south
boundary of the parish. It is worthy of notice, that this lake flows
out at both ends. At its, southern extremity, it sends its waters
into two other small lakes in' New Cumnock parish, that flows into
the river Nith; and at its northern extremity, it forms the Glas-
nock water, which, as we have already said, empties itself into the
Lugar at Cumnock. From these facts, it is evident that this lake
stands on the summit level between Ayrshire and Dumfries-shire ;
while it also forms an inland link of communication between the
friths of Clyde and Solway. And, indeed, from the presence of
marine deposits, it seems not absurd to hazard a conjecture, that
an arm of the sea, at some remote period, may have occupied the
line of water from the Clyde at Ayr to the mouth of the Nith in
Solway Frith. For, even as matters at present stand, we can sup-


