
     of Middlebie.

   Natural Productions, etc.-The parish abounds with free-
stone of a reddish colour, and with limestone, which is used
both in building and for manure.  About 30,000 Carlisle
bushels (each equal to 3 Winchester's) are annually sold
from the limestone quarries, at 11 d. the bushel when drawn
from the kiln.  Many acres are employed in raising oats, bar-
ley, potatoes, turnips, rye, wheat, and flax.  Oats are the
most common crop.  Turnips, rye, and wheat, are far from being
general.  The parish supplies itself with provisions, and ex-
ports a considerable quantity of oats, barley, and bacon.-
Great numbers of cattle, (which are generally very handsome,
and without horns,) are annually bought by drovers, and car-
ried into England.  It is a common practice, among the farm-
ers, to buy young sheep in August, and dispose of them the
following spring.  The sheep are of the long English kind,
with white legs and faces.  Harvest generally begins about
the 1 ft of September, and is not concluded till November.
The rent of the best arable land is about 20 s. the acre; inferior
land lets at 8 s. 9 s. or 10 s.  The general size of farms seems
to be 100 acres, and the average rent about L. 50 or L. 60.
Property is not often changing; but when it does, the land sells
at from 20 to 25 years purchase*.

   Stipend, Poor, etc.-The living, as augmented 1792, con-

     H 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The present price of butcher meat, butter, cheese, and grain, is much the
same as in the Edinburgh market, and in the three Lothians.  A goose sells at
2 s 6 d. or 3 s. a duck at 8 d. a hen at 7 d. or 8 d.  So late as 1760, oatmeal, which
now sells for 2 s. sold at 8 d. the stone.-The daily wages of labourers are
9 d. or 10 d. with victuals, or 1 s. 3 d. or 1 s. 4 d. without them;-of masons 1 s.
in the former case, and 1 s. 6 d. in the latter;-of taylors, who never work a-
broad without visuals, 8 d.  The wages of male servants vary from L. 7: 10
to L. 10 per ann. and female servants receive half of these sums.  This high
rate is to be attributed to the vicinity of England, where the wages of servants
are still higher than here.


