
68                         ELGINSHIRE.

down to future generations as the greatest historical event con-
nected with the annals of Knockando.-A place called Camp-
bell's Cairns is supposed by some to derive its name from being the
scene of battle between the Campbells and some other clan, in
which the Campbells were defeated; whilst others maintain that
the place is so called from Cossack Dhu, a freebooter of the old-
en time, who was said to have concealed his booty among the
cairns.
   Parochial Registers.-In consequence of a fire breaking out in
the village of Archiestown on the 17th April 1783, the house of
the session-clerk was burned, and three volumes of session records
were consumed, commencing in 1712, and ending in 1767. The
testamentary book, and the register of baptisms and marriages,
commencing in the year 1768, were fortunately preserved. Since
1783, books have been kept containing accounts of the ordinary
collections, distributions to the poor, and general session business,
as likewise registers of baptisms and marriages. The baptismal
register is by no means complete, owing to parents having neglect-
ed to have their children's names inserted. Within the last few
years, however, the register has been more accurate from the mea-
sures adopted to enforce registration. No record of deaths or fu-
nerals appears to have been kept until the year 1834, when the
present minister commenced a private register.
   Antiquities.-In the church-yard of Macallan, a small part of
the church wall is still standing, but gradually mouldering away,
and it is probable that ere long scarcely a vestige will remain.
There are two or three places in the parish where chapels or re-
ligious houses are supposed to have stood. About eighteen years
ago, there was found in the cave of James an Tuim, a dirk sup-
posed to have belonged to that individual. The belt and buckle
immediately crumbled to atoms on being touched. The handle
appeared to have been composed of deer's horn; only a small part
of it was entire. This dirk passed into the possession of Lewis
Inkson, Esq., London, and is understood to have been deposited
by him in one of the Museums of that city.
   A small Danish battle axe of copper, found on the farm of
Milton and two small dirks picked up a few years ago, are in the
possession of William Grant, Esq., younger of Wester Elchies.
Two small coins of the reign of Charles II., were found last year
in the western end of the parish, but unfortunately were sold by
the finder, for the small sum of ls. 6d. On the farm of Ballin-


