
342                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

whereas this shrub is frequently killed by the winter's cold at Lar-
bert, and I think also at Glasgow.
    Harbours, River, and small Streams.--The tide rises in the
Carron, as high as the Carron Iron-works, i. e. the surface
of high water is nearly on a level with the lowest point of
the water-wheels. The village of Carronshore (formerly Qua-
role shore) was a port of some little consequence, rising on
the ruin of the harbour of Airth, as it has declined under the
more favourably situate Grangemouth. Carronshore is still em-
ployed by the Carron Company, for the landing lime and iron-
stone, and there is a dry dock used by the same company; a
double-way iron rail-road connects it with the Carron Iron-works.
The river is capable of bearing vessels of 150 tons burthen as high
as Carronshore, and even up to the iron-works at spring-tides; but
the winding of the river makes the operation of tracking tedious
and uncertain. The deposit on the banks is a fat black loam,
and sea-dikes are maintained to protect the low land. These are
frequently injured at some of the acute windings of the stream,
when the spring-tide is accompanied by a gale from the north wind.
Above the Carron Iron-works, the bed of the river is rocky, show-
ing sections of the strata of sandstone belonging to the coal-field,
covered in many places by gray gravel which has been borne down
by the spates. Salmon formerly abounded in the Carron, but
that valuable article of food has been banished by the Carron
works and other works, which have dammed up the water, and di-
verted the stream from its natural course, and thereby prevented
the salmon from going up the river to spawn. A small stream,
the Chapelburn, rising in the centre of the parish, after a
run of about a mile and a-half, falls into the Carron, above
Carronshore. Even this streamlet is forced into the service of
trade, and turns two mills in its course. The small part of the
Pow of Airth, which forms, for a short distance, one of the boun-
daries of the parish, is winding and sluggish. Although not ex-
ceeding fourteen feet in breadth, it is only fordable after a long
course of dry weather.
   The perennial springs in the parish are naturally good, but the
surface springs, and those near the surface, have been in many
places cut off, in the lower part of the parish, by the coal-workings.
There can be little doubt, that a supply of water might be obtain-
ed by boring below the floor of the deepest pits, when water might
be found, whose spring-heads lie in the neighbouring hills.


