
     Of Chirnside.

   We may further judge of the general poor condition of
the arable land (except the S. croft, which was let in acres)
that, in the sworn valuation of it, the best, or infeild 
part, was rated in the decree of division at 5 s.  The 
estimate was so minutely exact, as to include various
rates, from that highest one to the lowest, at 1 1/2d. the
acre.  This last, indeed, respected the most barren and
scalpy point of the hill, so incumbered with large whin
stones, as to be thought incapable of culture.  For the
old arable, or S. croft, which was, as in other places of
the villge, tilled land, the tenants of acres, or portion-
ers of an acre, paid from 6 s. and 7 s. to 10 s; a rent as
high in those times, as when now they pay 30 s This is
not be considered as occasioned altogether by the low-
er value of money, and its greater circulation among the
inferior ranks of people.  An acre of land could not
then, by any known art or industry, be made to pro-
duce what it now does; not so much from the increased
fertility of the soil, as from the more advantageous uses
to which its fertility can now be turned; by a crop of
potatoes, or of red clover, or turnip, being joined to
one of corn, even in the same little field*. 

     VOL. XIV.  B

<FOOTNOTE>

*Instead of those late and signal improvements in agriculture, it ap-
pears, that one stated method of ploughing, and the same succession of
corn crops, being here, and all over the country, invariably observed;
every attempt to a better practice was restrained, when the use of mark
or lime, as a manure, was unknown, and that of dung was the sole one;
a certain quantity of it arising from the confinement of the cattle during
winter, could only be obtained.  Scantily if served to keep the acres of
the S. croft, and the infield of the N. in any tolerable heart.  The out-
field had no other benefit, but that of being fallowed; which, in those
4 days, amounted to no more than giving the ground a ploughing or two;
and then after an exhausting crop, resigning it to its natural produce,
which was only a more abundant one of weeds.  In consequence of the


