

36                        KINROSS-$HIRE.

or purchasers attend it. The nearest post-town is Kinross, which
has no regular market. One of the villages contains 501 inhabi-
tants, and the other, now 315. Besides these, there are three
smaller villages.
Means of Communication.-Turnp;ke-roads intersect the parish
in two different directions, and the public roads are in general good;
but no public carriages travel on them. Bridges and fences are,
for the most part, in good order. Two excellent bridges have been
lately thrown over the Leven.
.Ecclesiastical State.-Tbe parish church is as near the cetitre
of the parish as the locality will permit. It is-distant about seven
miles from one corner, which is very tbinly inhabited, and about half
that distance from the other extremities. Tite old church was built
in 1661, and has been rebuilt several years ago. It had become
too small for the population, and was supposed dangerous. The
heritors, with a liberality that does them credit, have now built a
plain substantial church, to accommodate about a third more than
the former. It is seated for 730. The only benefaction on record
is one of L. 100 to the poor born in the parish. The manse is a
handsome and commodiotis dwelling, and by much the best house
in the parish. The glebe contains above 18, imperial acres, but only
about three ofgood land. The rest is either moss or unproductive
land. The stipend is 16 chalders, half oatmeal and halfbarley.
Till lately, there were two Dissenting meetings in the parish; the
one of Dissei-iters from the Cameronians, the other of the Secession
church ; but the CamerODian minister baving died, the coiigrega-
tion was too small to call another,,,and most of the people have
come to the Established Church. ']'he stipend of the Seceding
minister is L. 100, which is raise(i from the seat rents and the col-
lections at the door. To this is added a dwelling-house. The
number of families in the parish attending the Established Church
is 219: of families Dissenting or Seceding, 127. The collections
in the parish church amount from L. 10 to L. 15 per annum.
Education.-There are four schools in the parish, but none of
them eiidowed except the one established by law. In these are
taught, Englisb, writing, arithmetic, and sometimes Latin, not,
However, on the most desirable principle-,.' The salary of the pa-
rocbial schoolmaster is the maximum. His fees amounted last
year to L. 6. None above six years are known to be unable to read,
and, in so far as the. branches mentioned above; are concerned,


