
   20                            NAIRNSHIRE.

   period; but it was known as Cawdor both to Hector Boece, the
   historian, and Shakspeare, and so was adopted as the family title,
   when, in 1796, the present Noble family of Cawdor was elevated
   to the Peerage, since which time this has become the general and
   recognized mode of spelling the name of the parish.  In the an-
   cient Atlas of Blaeu, the name is given " Cathel,"--a form still
   used by many of the country people, who do not speak Gaelic, in
   the eastern parts of the parish and county.
   Extent, &c.-Though the parish of Croy claims some detached
   parts on the south of the Nairn, this river may be considered the
   northern boundary of the parish of Cawdor.  The length of the
   parish from west to east, along: this river, is between 3 and 4 miles.
   Its breadth is very irregular, in some places not above a mile, in
   others 4 and 5 miles, while one offset stretches southward across
   the Findhorn river to a distance of more than 16 miles.  The
   parish may be described as a cultivated plain of about a mile in
   breadth, and parallel with the Nairn, rising towards the south into
   ranges of hills of considerable elevation, wbich, for some distance
   up their sloping sides, are brought under tillage, above which
   again, rise large plantations of wood, while these in their turn are
   succeeded by very wide tracts of brown and barren heath.
      Climate.-The climate is dry, mild, and agreeable, being, in
   some measure, sheltered by distance, and the intervening parishes
   of Nairn and Auldearn, from the piercing winds which blow off the
   German Ocean.
      In winter, snow seldom lies to any great depth, which may be
   owing partly to the little elevation of the land above the sea, (not
   above 80 or 100 feet), in part also to its being walled in with hills
   to the south and west.  Indeed, during the last two vtinters, there
   have been striking instances of snow falling to the depth of several
   feet to the east and west, while, at the same time, in this parish,
   the depth.was not above a few inches.  Perhaps the greatest de-
   gree of cold that has been experienced in this part of the island
   for many seasons, was felt on the 7th and 8th days of January of
   1841, when the mercury in Fahrenheit's thermometer was seen
   to sink within doors to about 5o below zero.  As the soil is ge-
   nerely of a light description, the crops often suffer in summer
   from excessive drought.
      Hydrography.-The only river in the parish, if we except the
   Findhorn, which cuts through a narrow and remote neck of land
   to the south, is the small but often impetuous and destructive river,

					3


