                                                       
                        LAUDER.                                  9

ter tups, and their produce is sold in lambs, but the cross thus ob-
tained is never used for breeding.
   Of cattle, the common breed is the short-horned or Teeswater.
It is thought by some intelligent farmers, that, if a smaller breed
of cows were kept, such as the Kyloe, or some of the other north-
ern varieties, and a good Teeswater bull, this cross would pay bet-
ter, as a greater number of cows could be kept, and of calves rear-
ed, which would more than compensate for, the larger size, and the
superior prices of the others. The young cattle in winter and
spring receive turnips from four to five months, along with straw,
those rising three years are put on turnips in the middle of Oc-
tober, are fed from three to six months, and sold fat, to go to the
market of Edinburgh or Morpeth. Such of the farmers (but they
are not many) as do not rear so many as they require for their
grass and turnips, buy for that purpose the Angus and West-
Highland cattle, in nearly equal proportions.
   Husbandry.-The general character of the husbandry pursued
is not inferior to that of the husbandry of any part of the country.
The outfield arable lands are, for the most part, allowed to remain
two or three years in grass, when they are taken up for a crop of
oats, succeeded by plain fallow or turnips, with manure; the third
year they are cropped with oats or barley, with which perennial
grass seeds are sown, after which they are subjected to a similar
rotation, of management. The infield lands are not seldom crop-
ped in the four-shift rotations, (oats, turnips, barley, grass,) a
system which, although it be not the best, necessity obliges the
farmers to adopt. The greater part of the land being light soil, well
adapted for turnip culture, large quantities of that valuable root
are raised annually, of which one-half is white, and the other half
yellow, and ruta baga. The husbandry would doubtless be im-
proved by keeping the arable lands longer under pasturage, and
by consuming more of the turnips upon the ground by sheep; to
which, however, the climate and want of shelter in many places
operate as hindrances.
   Most of the land susceptible of aration has been reclaimed by
draining,-by frequent ploughing and harrowing,-and by liming
at the rate of ten single horse carts per acre. The arable land in
various partsof the parish still peeds to be more thoroughly drain-
ed. On the farms where Cheviot sheep are kept, the wet grounds
have been much improved by small surface drains, fifteen inches
wide, and nine inches deep, which cost one penny for six lineal


