
                     LOGIE-BUCHAN.                        813

   The number of Scotch acres in the parish in tillage, 4566 =
5759 imperial ; ditto improvable, 251 = 316 do.; ditto unimprov-
able, including Sleek of Tarty, 267 = 337 do.  Total, 5084 =
6412 imperial.  Of the above there are under wood 66 imperial
acres.
   Rent.-Average rent of arable land per acre, 15s.; do. of graz-
ing an ox, L.2, 10s.
   Improvements.-Various are the agricultural improvements that
have taken place during the last forty years.  From the commence-
ment of that period, we date the introduction of a regular rotation of
crops upon inclosed farms, which gradually extended itself to un-
enclosed ground.  The most common rotations are those of five or
six years, with one grain crop, and of seven years, with two grain
crops, after lea.  The introduction of various species of early oats
and greater attention to seed-corn in general have been going on
since the late and calamitous harvest of 1782.  The introduction
of bone manure and the short-horned breed of cattle, and the con-
temporaneous opening of the English markets for fat cattle by
steamers, have been productive of the greatest benefit to the agri-
cultural interest.  The general sale of grain by weight has re-
deemed Buchan victual from its ancient reproach, and given oats,
its staple produce, a high character in the London market.  An-
other very important advantage has been gained to the agricultu-
rist by the abolition of services, and particularly of thirlage, and
multure, which, with the improved state of meal-mills having dry-
ing kilns attached, and the low rate of 6d. or 7d. for milling the
imperial boll, are considered to be a gain of no less than 20 per
cent. upon the return of meal.
   The universal adoption of the scythe in place of the sickle in
harvest is likewise considered here as a very great improvement,
both as to expedition and expense.  Under favourable circum-
stances, one scythe will cut two acres in a day.  The fields are all
rolled after sowing.  Besides these advantageous changes in the
general system of farming, there have been many improvements in
the implements of husbandry, which need not be enumerated here. *
   There is a field of excellent clay, of considerable extent and
depth, on the farm of Westfield of Auchmacoy, upon which, in the

<FOOTNOTE>One, as yet peculiar to this parish, may be mentioned, viz. a simple, cheap, and
efficient "self-acting flood sluice," for placing in embankments on the side of a river,
particularly of a tide river; for which the Highland and Agricultural Society voted
their silver medal.  See their Transactions in 1837.


