
     of Muirhouse.

<FOOTNOTE>

shops of Scotland; but by act of Assembly they were to be a much sub-
ject to their presbyteries as ever.  He had prevailed with the Assembly at
Linlithgow, anne 1606, to appoint constant moderators, and each mode-
rator was to have L. 100 pension from the King.  The 14 commissioners
for the Kirk were to preside in the Synods.  After these and other steps,
having got the Assembly at Glasgow prepared and packed for this purpose,
he pravailed with them to divest themselves, and all the interior judica-
tures, of that ecclesiastical power which, in former times, had been vested
in them by the laws of the land; and thus this first Episcopacy was in-
troduced in a church-way, which was an event much desired by the King,
and which he had almost despaired to obtain.  It may be observed, how-
ever, that this was a mixed kinid of Episcopacy: For, by the Assem-
bly at Glasgow, it is expressly provided, That the bishops, in all
things concerning their life, conversation, office, and benefice, should be
subject to the censure of the General Assembly.
   As this alternation was made in the government, so a similar one took
place in the discipline of the Church.  For, in the same yearl 1710, the
King set up the High Commission Court, and committed the rod of dif-
cipline to them.  The members of this court were all the bishops, all the
commissaries in Scotland, with many of the nobility and gentry, and seve-
ral ministers.  They had power to judge in all causes that concerned re-
ligion or a moral life, either in clergy or laity.  They had no law, how-
ever, for their authority, but an act of Privy Council.  They had power
to suspend, deprive, depose, imprison, banish, fine, etc. It was a most
arbitrary court, and could use the persons and properties of the subject as
it pleased, without form or process of law.  Churchmen had the power
of the civil, and laymen that of the spiritual sword.  As by this court,
the power of the bishops, so was the King' supremacy, exalted to a great
height.
   An alternation was also made in the worship some years after this.  In the
Assembly met at Perth in the year 1681, the famous five articles, called the
Perth articles, were enjoined.  These were, private communion to sick
people, private baptism, kneeling at the sacrament of the Supper, confir-
mation by the bishops, and keeping some holydays.  These articles were
ratified by act of Parliament 1621; but met with greater opposition, both
in the Parliament and Assembly, than the establishment of Episcopacy.
They were very disagreeable to both laity and clergy as appears from the
numbers who suffered from the High Commission Court,  during 20 years,
for non-conformity to Episcopacy and the Perth articles; till at last,
gaining the nobility to their party, Episcopacy was rooted out with all
its depedencies in 1638.  Prior to 1610, the standard of workship was the
order of Geneva, otherwise called Knox's Liturgy, suited to the infant


