
     of Dunnichen.

makes a very strong cement.  The calcination of marl will, it
is hoped, prove an useful discovery in this neighbourhood, to
which other lime must be fetched from the distance of 14 or
16 miles.

   The improvements made in this parish have been princi-
pally confined to the estates of Dunnichen and Dumbarrow.
Dunnichen paid, about 30 years ago, nearly L. 300 of yearly

<FOOTNOTE>

grass, and forming it into a bed some inches thick; this bed,
while drying, may be a little compacted, by beating it with the
flat of the spade of shovel, and, before it be quite dry, it may be
cut into pieces of the size of the peats.  The best kiln for burning it
should have nearly the shape of a draw kiln, or should have a 
much deeper cylindrical cavity than the vulgar kilns in which
lime is burnt; it may be from 20 to 30 feet deep, and from 8
to 9 feet in diameter; the top of it should be covered with a
dome or arch, having an opening at top, 3 feet diameter, to
let out the smoke, &c. and a door in the side of this dome for
introducing the materials; at the bottom, where the kiln is a
little contracted, should be a grate 5 feet square, the bars of
which being loose, might be drawn out occasionally.  In char-
ging this kiln, lay first 18 inches depth of peats over the whole
grate, then throw in prepared marl and peats intermixed until
the kiln is filled to the top, and at the top of all there should be
some peats without any marl; then shut up the door at the top
of the kiln with stones and mud, and throw in the kindling at
the vent of the dome.  The fire will be slowly communicated
from the top to the bottom, so as to charr the whole peats, and
to expel the remains of humidity from the masses of marl; and 
this will be accompanied with very little consumption of the in-
flammable matter; but, when the whole is charred, it will be-
gin to burn with abundance of heat, first at the bottom, and
gadually upwards, until all the peats are completely consumed.
Then, by drawing the bars of the grate, the kiln may be drawn.
I cannot say what proportion the peats should bear to the marl,
but am of opinion that a very moderate proportion may be suf-
ficient in the middle and upper parts of the kiln.  To know
whether the marl is thoroughly burnt, slake the lime with wa-
ter when fresh drawn from the kiln, and try if the slaked lime
will dissolve in aquafortu, or spirit of salt, without efferves-
sence."


