
                        FORGUE.                               607

gentleman and his brother James, the minister of the neighbouring
parish of Inverkeithnie, were both deposed by the General As-
sembly in a summary manner, on the 9th May 1715.  The cause
of their deposition was that they failed in their observance of a
thanksgiving, appointed by both civil and ecclesiastical authority,
to be observed on the 20th of January 1715, for the peaceable
accession of George I. to the throne.
   In both parishes, the great bulk of the inhabitants espoused the
cause of their ministers, and matters proceeded so far, that, as it had
been impossible, formerly, for the members appointed by the sy-
nod, to intimate the sentence of suspension, on account of the vio-
lence of the people of these congregations, so the members, lately
appointed by the Assembly to intimate their sentence of deposi-
tion, were prevented by main force, not only from entering the
churches, but even the church-yards of those parishes.  On both
occasions, the ministers sent were roughly handled, assailed by an
enraged and furious mob, and obliged to make a hasty retreat
without executing the orders of their superiors.  Nor was it only
on these two occasions that the turbulent spirit of the people ma-
nifested itself,-these parishes were in a complete ferment for
years afterwards.  In the meantime, the Messrs Maitland, now that
they were rejected by Presbytery, united themselves to Episco-
pacy, and opened meeting houses for their numerous friends and
followers in both Forgue and Inverkeithuie.  In this piece of out-

<FOOTNOTE>The Rev. William Chambers (from Rathen), was settled at King-Edward, on
the 3d of August 1704.
   The Rev. John Maitland (from Insch, who was deposed in 1715), was settled at
Forgue, on the 22d of May 1707.
   The Rev. James Bannerman (from Inveraven) was settled at Forglen on the
26h of March 1717.
   The Rev. John Gordon (from Glenbucket) was settled at Gamery on the 27th
Of May 1717.
   The Rev. Robert Hay was settled at Fyvie, on the lst of May 1718.
   The Rev. James Stewart (from Inverkeitnie) was settled at Alvah on the 13th
of May 1718.
   The Rev. William Johnston was settled at Monquhitter on the 15th of Novem-
ber 1727.
   At the time of the Rebellion, in 1715, there were six Presbyterian ministers in
the Presbytery of Turriff; two were concerned in it, in so far as they neglected to
observe the thanksgiving for the accession of George I., and were deposed accord-
ingly; namely, the Messrs Maitland.  There were five Epicopal clergymen, who
had been continued in their cures, living at that period within the bounds of the
presbytery; all entered heartily into the plan of the Pretender, and, notwithstand-
ing their declinature of the authority of the presbytery, they were thus deals with by
that body, and the civil power sanctioned the proceeding.  Mr Hay at Monquhit-
ter was for some time suspended; Messrs Campbell at Alvah, and James at Ga-
mery, were deposed; and Messrs Dunbar at Forglen, and Dalgarno at Fyvie, died
during the dependence of the process against them.


