
                              GREENOCK.                      445

  is a wayter constantly attending. 2dly, Greenock-such another-
  only the inhabitants are more, but all seamen or fishermon, tra-
  ing for Ireland or the isles in open boates.  Att which place there
  is a mole or peere, where vessells in stresse of weather may ride
  and shelter themselves before they pass up to Newarke; and here
  likewise is another wayter.",
     Crawfurd wrote his History of Renfrewsbire about fifty years
  after the date of the report from which the preceding excerpts
  are taken.  During that short period the trade and town of Green-
  ock appear to have made rapid progress.  For Crawfurd describes
  it as the chief town upon the coast-well built-and having be-
  longing to it a great many vessels employed in trade to foreign
  parts, and one of the largest harbours in the kingdom.
     The growing prosperity of GreeDock'at the period to which we
  refer is to be ascribed to the enterprising spirit of its inhabitants,
  and the liberal and enlightened policy of Sir John Shaw, the Lord.
  of the Manor.  We have seen that, at the beginning of the last cen-
  tury, the population of the whole parish did not exceed 2000; yet in
  the year 1700, the inhabitants of the town petitioned the Scottish
  Parliament for a fund to build a harbour, and were refused; where-
  upon they entered into an agreement with the superior to raise
  the money by a voluntary assessment of Is. 4d.  Sterling on each
  sack of malt brewed into ale within the limits of the town.  The
  building was commenced in 1707, and the work was completed be-
  fore Crawfurd wrote his history in 17 10.  The harbour then. built
  inclosed ten acres of ground-a large space for that period itk the
  commercial history of Scotland; and cost 100,000 merks, or
  L.5555.  A heavy debt was incurred, by the erection; but the
  trade of the port increased so rapidly, that, in the year 1740, the
  whole debt was extinguished, and there remahned a surplus of
  27,000 merks, or L. 1500.
     The author of the former Statistical Account mentions, that,
  from the union with England, till the beginning of the American
  war, " a verv great trade was carried on from Greenock, princi-
  pally by the Glasgow; merchants, who were owners of almost all the
  ships sailing from that port." The American war, as has been al-
  ready stated, occasioned an almost total stagnation of its trade; but
  trade again revived, and inereased with rapidity till a recent period,
  when it began to be affected by the deepening of the river, and the
  consequent removal of a part of the trade  to Glasgow.  The mer-
  chants of Greenock have for a long time been the principal owners


