
106                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

try. This is known to be the fact, and is indicated by various
natural appearances, such as the continuance of the foliage, and
the length of time during which exotics of considerable delicacy
may be exposed to the open air without injury. This mildness of,
climate is more observable towards the end of autumn and during
the winter than in the season of spring; and while the frosts of
winter are less severe than in the interior of the country, the heats
of summer are by no means so violent; which may be accounted
for by the peninsular situation of the parish, and its being sur-
rounded and sheltered by higher grounds, which, though separated
from it by the intervening waters, are not more than a mile or two
distant. The prevalent winds are from the south and south-west;
and to these the Loch Long side of the parish is particularly expos-
ed, while the Gareloch side is enjoying shelter the most complete.
The average rain is certainly not greater, but it is without doubt
more frequent, than in the neighbouring districts of Renfrewshire
and Argyleshire. The chief reason of this is to be found in the
conflicting attractions of the higher grounds on opposite sides of
the Frith. A large mass of dense vapour may frequently be seen
driving up the estuary of the Clyde, as if ready to deluge the pe-
ninsula in its progress. On reaching the narrow part of the chan-
nel, between the Cloch and Dunoon, it appears to pause for a
while, as if considering in what direction to proceed: but whether
it eventually verge toward the mountains of Cowal on the left, or
toward the masses of Renfrew on the right, a portion of its watery
burden descends on our intermediate shores,-and thus, whichever
attraction prevail, we have invariably what is called the tail of the
shower. This phenomenon is very striking, and may be very easily
seen at certain seasons of the year; and during the struggle of
the opposing forces for the mastery, the scenery of the dark and
stormy heavens oftentimes presents an aspect of bold and rugged
sublimity. *

<FOOTNOTE>Changes of weather are preceded by such progpostics as are common in other
districts,-such, for example, as the low flight of the crow in the growing humidity
of the air,-the landward flight and flocking together of the gulls before a gale.  One
or two may be specified as rather peculiar.
  In the calmest night the tide-stream at the ferry, although, as it passes, silent like
the falling dew, will sometimes, before atmospheric changes, resound like a cataract.
Let the sky be starry and cloudless, and otherwise studded all over with promises of
a beautiful morning, the sun to a certainty will have much ado to escape from the
clouds that shall crowd together to blindfold him.
  Between two peaks on the Arrochar range, to the east of the "Duke's Bowling-
green-Hill," should there appear a hazy ill-defined cloud in, the afternoon, even al-
though not a clould should be elsewhere above the horizon, many a dingy mass of va-
pour will it have to bear by the morning.


