
946                           PERTHSHIRE.

account of the events which put it in the powdr of that individual
to bequeath the funds for its establishment, may not be uninte-
resting.
   Mr William Hope, the son of Mr Murray's mother, having
gone to India in early life, realized in Madras a very large fortune
as a merchant. Having, by the advice of his physicians, deter-
mined to return to Europe in 1809, he early, in that year, exe-
cuted his will, providing handsomely for his wife and four daugh-
ters, and bequeathing, at the same time, considerable legacies to
his mother and her two sons. The deed, however, contained
no provision against the event which afterwards followed; but
by a peculiar interposition of providence, when Mr Hope was about
to embark with his family, he hurriedly, as appears from his will,
provided, that, in the event of himself and his family perishing at
sea, his fortune should go to his mother and her sons. On the 3Oth
of January 1809, he, with his wife and daughters, embarked for
England in the Jane Duchess of Gordon. The sad fate of that
vessel, and of other three Indiamen of the same fleet, is still well
remembered. Mr Hope and his family were among the hundreds
who perished in the storm. Neither ships, nor crews, nor pas-
sengers were ever seen or heard of since the fatal night of the 15th
of March 1809. Out of this appalling event a succession opened
up to Mr Murray, which enabled him to endow this institution on
its present splendid scale.
   The building, which is spacious and handsome, stands on the ac-
clivity of Kinnoull hill, commanding an immense range of view. Up-
wards of L.40,0DO have been expended on the house and grounds;
and latterly, the directors have purchased a farm adjoining, at an ex-
pense of nearly L.7000. The plan, and indeed the whole of the ar-
rangements, were designed by Mr Burn, and these may be said to
have been so contrived as not only to embrace every modern im-
provement, which is to be found in similar institutions througbout the
kingdom, but to render available the many special advantages con-
nected with so favourable a locality. The house stands in the middle
of a park of twelve acres, with its gardens, walks, and shrubberies,
in which the convalescent patient may seek exercise or amusement.
A number of verandahs commanding the extensive view before re-
ferred to, afford him the benefit of enjoying healthful occupations
in the open air, during the greatest heat of summer, or the most
inclement weather of winter. While all is sufficiently secure to
prevent injury or escape, all is free from from the gloomy aspect of con-


