
                             BLAIR-ATHOLL.                     565                     565

properly belongs to the account of this parish, and its history also
is known to every one. Viscount Dundee had his head-quarters
at the Castle of Blair, and the contending armies met on the
north side of the Girnag, upon the lands of Runrory or Urrard,
in the parish of Moulin. A despatch on the following day from
Dundee himself, and which is published in the Stuart papers,
contradicts the common belief, that he died near the scene of ac-
tion; and no good reason has ever been assigned for the assertion
that that despatch is a forgery. He was buried in the vault of the
Atholl family, in the old church of Blair.
     Blair Castle was often occupied as an important military post,
not only in the incessant warfare of feudal times, but even in the
late Rebellion of 1745. When the Duke of Cumberland arrived
with his army at Perth, in February 1746, he deemed it expedient
to have a military force in Atholl, where almost all the inhabitants
were known to be Jacobites. A detachment of 300 men, command-
ed by Sir Andrew Agnew, Bart., Lieutenant-Colonel of the Royal
N. B. Fusileers, was sent by the route of Dunkeld, and through
the pass of Killiecrankie, to take post at Blair Castle.
     The chief object of the service committed to Sir Andrew was
certainly to prevent any treasonable correspondence, and to cut
off by proper parties, at fit out-posts, the communications by the
great roads between the south and northern parts of the country.*
So effectual was this manoeuvre for the purpose intended, and so
annoying was the occupation of this military post by the King's
forces, that Lord George Murray was sent from the north to re-
gain possession of Blair Castle. He was accompanied by other
officers of rank, and a force of about 100 men. After having com-
pletely surprised and made prisoners of all the detached parties with-
out the castle, his head-quarters were established in the village of
Blair upon the 17th of March.
     From the measures adopted by Lord George, he seems to have
wished to reduce the garrison to surrender by famine. He bad
heard of its scanty provisions, and with his numerous force he
blocked up the castle so closely, that it was impossible to receive
any supplies into it.

<FOOTNOTE>At this time no siege or blockade had been foreseen. It was never expected
that the open communication with the country, and a regular supply of provision,
would have been interrupted. The quantity of garrison provisions sent to the castle
was small. With respect to water, there was a draw-well in the castle. No artillery
or military store even  sent; and when the number of serviceable cartridges of
powder and ball in of the soldiers was strictly examined, it was found
that they did not exceed nineteen per man.


