
502                  RENFREWSHIRE.


    The view from another point further west, called Undercraig,
is still more extensive, because it not only embraces the mountains.
Ben Lomond, Ben Ledi, and Ben More,on the north, and the
hills above Holy Loch and Loch Long on the west, but also a
splendid view of Loch Gare and the peninsula of Roseneatb, " the
Holy Isle," as it was formerly called. On a summer evening, the
sunset viewed from this point is most lovely and imposing; Camp-
saile Bay and the Gare Loeh present the appearance of molten
gold, until the sun sinks behind the horizon, when the long dark
shadows of the neighbouring mountains become immediately visible
on their placid waters.
   Climate and Diseases.-The climate, as in the neighbouring pa-
rishes, is moist, but on the whole salubrious, for though rain falls
in considerable quantity, it is immediately absorbed by the gravel-
ly subsoil, and there are no marshes or stagnant pools in the pa-
rish to contaminate the air. It must, however, be confessed that
from the quantity of rain that falls, and more  especially from the
clouds of vapour which rise constantly from the Clyde, the atmo-
sphere is not so light and elastic as it is further inland, and rheu-,
matism is, consequently, of not unfrequent occurrence. There is
no disease that can be called endemic. Typhus fever seldom makes
its appearance, and when it does, from the immediate removal of
the patient to the nearest hospital, it rarely spreads. The natu-
ral small-pox has more than once appeared in the parish, but last
year, on account of the crowded state of the houses, * it prevailed
to a great extent among persons of all ages. When vaccination
had previously taken place, it was uniformly wild, but to infant
children, and unvaccinated'peesons, it proved very fatal. Con-
sumption is a very common disease, arising from neglect of colds,
brought on by exposure to the weather, in following agricultural
pursuits. When Asiatic cholera visited our country some years ago,
there were two cases in this parish, both of which proved fatal,
   Springs art Rivers.There are abundance of strong and ex-
cellent springs in this parish; some of these in the western part-
are entirely devoid of any mineral taint; but the wells are gene-

called the Half-way House, at which, about forty years ago, travellers who left
Greenock in the morning by coach were In the habit of dining, as they never reached
Glasgow till late in the evening, twelve hours being the time allowed for twenty-four,
miles.  Travellers now accomplish that distance by railway in less than one hour.

<FOOTNOTE>The workmen on the Glasgow, Paisley, and Greenock Railway, to the amount
1500, were lodged in the parish,much to the detriment of cleanliness and good
morals


