

202                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

nantry. During the French revolutionary war, they let their lands at
L.5, 5s. per acre, but never exacted more than L.4, and every year
give the tenants a full discharge. The other principal proprietors
are, Henry Stainton, Esq. of Gairdoch; Colonel Dundas of Car-
ron Hall; and John Walker Ogilvie, Esq. of Orchardhead. The
remainder of the parish is held by others, to the extent of from
two to sixty acres each.

                      III.-POPULATION.
  About twenty years ago, the population of the parish did not
amount to quite 500; but since the establishment of the colliery
by the Carron Company, it has increased as follows:-

<TABLE>

    		In 1811			 821
		   1821			 895
		   1831			 905

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-In no part of Scotland is agriculture better under-
stood, or pursued with more eagerness and success than in this
small parish. The soil is so favourable for the production of grain,
that there is not in it one acre of natural grass. Tile-draining
has, for several years past, been carried on to such an extent, that
almost every acre of it has been subjected to this most important
improvement, so important that the farmers assert, that they are
paid all their outlay by the additional produce of the two first
years. The mode of cropping is that of a six years rotation;
1.naked fallow; 2. wheat; 3. beans; 4. barley; 5. grass; 6.
oats. Perhaps the ingenuity of man cannot discover a more
important rotation for carse land than this, as a green crop inter-
venes between every two white ones.
  Rent of Land.-For several years past, the lands have paid prin-
cipally a grain rent of from eleven to twelve bushels of wheat per
Scotch acre, with, in very few instances, a maximum and mini-
mum of from L.1, 5s. to L.1, 15s. per boll of four bushels, regu-
lated by the fiars of the county.
  Rate of Wages.-Farm-servants are engaged by the half-year,
at from L.9 to L.11. There are no day-labourers in the parish.
  Stock.-There is much attention paid to the rearing of horses
for farm purposes, which are of a superior description. No greater
number of cows are kept, than is necessary for supplying the fa-
mily with dairy produce.
  Produce.-Wheat and beans are the most productive crops.
The average of wheat may be stated at six quarters per acre, and
in some favourable seasons has amounted even to nine. The time
                            4


