
			    KILLIN.                          1089

   There is in the possession of Mr Sinclair, tenant of Inverchag-
gernie, an old rifle, four feet long, with an octagonal bore. It was
long the property of M'Nab of Innis-Ewen. It was afterwards
used by the celebrated Gaelic poet, M'Intyre, when one of Lord
Breadalbane's foresters. In his classic poem "Beinn dourain,"
he thus praises his companion;

	           "Ochd-shlisneach gun fheall,
              Stoc d'en fbiodh gun mheang,
              Lotadh an damh seang
              Sa leonadh e."

It had, however, been tsed for other purposes than wounding the
antlered monarchs of Coire-cheathaich and Beinn dourain. A
party of soldiers had, in 1745, been sent from Finlarig Castle
to burn the House of Coire Chaorach near Benmore. They were
watched by M'Nab of Innisewen from the opposite side of the glen.
After setting fire to the mansion, they were again on their march
to Finlarig, when, happening to look back, they observed that the
fire had gone out. One of them was sent back to rekindle it. He
was observed by M'Nab, who, from his place of concealment fired
and killed the red-coat. The rest, of the party, seeing the fate of
their companion, rushed down to the river, but are they had reach-
ed it, other three were made to kiss the earth. M'Nab then re-
treated to the rocks above, still watching his pursuers, and, from
the heights, he killed three more of his enemies, when the rest be-
came terrified, and gave up the destructive pursuit. In the stock
of the rifle there is a recess for a supply of bullets. The same
person has the celebrated bottle, known to many of M'Nab's
friends as the Bachelor, and containing nine gallons. It was long
in use at Kinnell. He has also a very handsome gold brooch,
which used to adorn the shoulder of Rob Boy M'Gregor: also
his powder-horn, elegantly mounted in silver.
   There is in the possession of the minister a copy of Bishop
Beddell's Bible in the Irish Gaelic, with this inscription, "1688.
The donation of the honorable, pious, and lairn'd Rob. Boyle,
Esquire, a principal Member of the Royal Society, bestowed on
the church of Killin, to continue there as a church-Bible for the
use of the present minister and his successors, minister of that
parish."

		      III.-POPULATION.
   There are no data older than the last Account by which the
state of the population can be ascertained. At that time there
   PERTH.                                      3z


