
     Of Markinch.

tury.  This castle is pleasantly situated on the S. bank of the 
Leven, elevated about 36 feet above the bed of the river.  It 

     3 Z 2

<FOOTNOTE>

the subject thoroughly by proper judges, and they will declare the attempt
vain, to pursue the one further N., or the other either S. or N., than it has been 
already done.  And what he imagined inexhaustible seams, may possibly be 
entirely wrought out in less than 100 years.  I shall not attempt to account for 
the frequent interruptions in the line of bearing of the coal, and all other strata.
I have only pointed out the fact, that neither coal nor any other strata what-
ever, can be traced to any considerable distance, without such interruptions be-
ing met with.  What actually happened in working the dip of Balbirny coal,
may happen in a hundred others, where the probability of the dip being both
good and extensive, cannot possibly be greater, than it was in that very coal,
till it was actually tried.  One fact seems to be established by it, that some
coals do not extend to any very great depth from the surface.  But after conti-
nuing to dip for some time, they rise the contrary way, and crop out to the
surface on a point of the compass diametrically opposite to the former crop.
Many could be pointed out which actually do so, though the greater part of 
seams may reach to so great a depth, and may at that depth be so altered by
dikes and slips, as to throw the opposite crop, or rise to such a distance, as often
prevents its being perceived to be the same seam, though it actually be so.
This example, proves coal to be limited in extent in a different way.  And
that it is by no means certain that coal can be had in the dip, though good in 
the crop, and wrought there above 40 years. 
   2. The increasing consumption of coal, and its limited extent, gives reason to
apprehend its being totally exhausted. 
   It seems to be the opinion of the publick, that coal is inexhaustible.  Govern-
ment appears to have adopted the same opinion, in allowing such immense 
quantities of coal to be exported to all the nations in Europe.  It is greatly to 
be wished, that this opinion were well founded; but it is contradicted by incom-
trovertible facts.  It is not above 200 years since coal came into common use,
and it is highly probable the first 150 years of that period did not exhaust so,
much of it as the last 50 years.  Examine all the coal fields, not in Fife only, 
but through all Britain, and it will be found that every part of them near to a
sea-port, and many of the inland seams of coal, are not only exhausted to the
depth of the natural level, but almost all of them already wrought, and exhaust-
ing fast by fire and water engines, many of which are, very deep.  It will also be
sound, that the quantity already wrought is probably at leaft equal to the quanti-
ties yet to work of all the known seams of coal within the island.  It might, per-
haps, be an object worthy of being investigated by Government; for is the is-


