
			NEWTON.                       569

husbandman, and many of the monuments removed to make way
for the plough. It is hoped that to preserve what yet remains of
the olden time, it may still be surrounded with a fence.
   In the former Statistical Account, it is said, "the only anti-
quity here that deserves to be taken notice of, is a very high ridge
of a circular form, and of considerable extent, which evidently ap-
pears to be altogether artificial. The people of the country have
always called it 'the Kaith, ' a corruption it is supposed of the
word camp." Now this is a two fold mistake, since the word Kaim
has a well-known meaning attached to it, viz. that of a ridgesome
what zigzag in the form of a cock's comb, which is quite charac-
teristic of the local appearances; and as coal pits have been sunk
in some parts of it, it has been conclusively ascertained that it is
not artificial. Indeed, being in the form of the letter S reversed,
and somewhat elongated, it is strange bow it could have been
supposed to have formed a camp or enclosure of any kind, since
the extremities, instead of approaching each other, actually recede
in opposite directions. It is true, that the supposition is counte-,
nanced by a farm-steading situated at one extremity being now
called Campend; but, in former times, it is uniformly written Kaim-
end, and was descriptive both of its locality and of the idea then
attached to the appearance presented by the ridge in question.
How to account for its having assumed so singular a form is quite
a different matter, as to which we shall not hazard a conjecture.
   Modern Buildings.-Woolmet House has somewhat of a baro-
nial appearance, and must, at the time of its erection, have been
a splendid residence for the property, though now it has come to
be let with the farm by its present proprietor, the Earl of Wemyss,
into whose family it came by purchase at a comparatively recent
period. Edmonstone house, the residence of John Wauehope,
Esq., is large and commodious, though without any great preten-
sions to architectural display.

                 <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

                Population in l801, Government census, 1060
                              1811,                    1578
                              1821,  .    .    .       2150
                              1831,     .    .    .    2272
                              1834,  .    .     .      2091
                              1835,     .     .   .    1836
                              1836,  .    .     .      1762
                              1837,     .     .    .   1728
                              1841,  .     .           1743

<FOOTNOTE>This and the following were taken by the writer personally in his annual visita-
tions of the parish, and he has the utmost confidence in their, accuracy.


