
                                   NEWBURGH.              73                               73

  Character,&c. of the People.-The people are in general active
and industrious, and, with the usual exceptions which occur almost
invariably in manufacturing and sea-port districts, merit the praise of
sobriety. The great bulk of them are attentive to the ordinances
of religion and the education of their children. The rising gene-
ration are supplied from parish libraries with excellent and instruc-
tive books. These are read with much interest; and the time is
not far distant, when Newburgh, which has hitherto been noted for
commercial enterprise, will also be distinguished for a moral, reli-
gious, and a well-informed people. " No person belonging to the
parish of Newburgh," says Dr Stuart, " has suffered the punish-
ment of death for any crime within the period to which its records
extend."  To this notice in the former Statistical Account, the
writer of the present one has only to add, that, in 1661, two wo-
men belonging to the town were hanged at Cupar, accused of the
crime of witchcraft, and for causing, under the influence of that
" black art, the minister's house, Mr Lawrence Oliphant, to be
burnt." As in former times, " Newburgh supplied the navy of
Great Britain with steady, well-behaved, and gallant men," the
character of its semen still continues to be held in estimation.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.-

	There are in cultivation,   .  	737 imperial acres.
	Waste or pasture,   .   .	280
	Under wood,	   .      .      88
	Under fruit trees,    .          40

  Rent of Land.-The valued rent of the parish amounts to
L. 1958, 17s. 6d.  Scotch.  Its real rent is about L. 2400 Ster-
ling. The average rent of the clay lands in the immediate vi-
cinity is L. 6. In the southern and hilly part of the parish it is
about L. 3, 10s. The greater part of the town's property has but
recently been brought into cultivation,-the rent of which, for the
new land, is about 10s. per acre, but upon the renewal of the
leases may be expected to average quadruple that sum.
  Rate of Wages.-The rate of labour for farm work is, for plough-
men, from L. 10 to L. 12 per annum, with an allowance of 2 pecks
of oatmeal per week, and 1 pint of sweet milk per day. Female
house-servants have from L. 5 to L. 6 per annum. Male labour-
ers have Is. 6d., and female, 8d. per day. Weavers, according
to their expertness, can earn from 8s. to 14s. per week. Masons
wrights, and ship-carpenters have 2s. 6d. per day. Sailors, from
L.2, 10s. to L. 3 per month.



