
     Of Auchindoir.

   Minerals.-Freestone is found in the greatest abundance.
A quarry of it is wrought, which gives employment to 8 or
10 hands.  There is also a vein of tolerably good limestone,
which in different places appears even at the surface; but ow-
ing partly to the want of good toads to the places where it is
found, partly to our short leases, and principally to the man-
ner in which the stones have been quarried, every one taking
them where he could most easily find them, without ever re-
moving the rubbish, very little lime is burnt in this parish.
This is the more to be wondered at, as there is plenty of good
peat for burning it: and the more to be regretted, as it an-
swers uncommonly well with the soil.  The little lime that
is used in Auchindoir, is chiefly brought from Cabrach, at
the distance of 10 miles, and through very bad roads.  We
have also a loose gritty substance, which strongly effervesces
with aquafortis; but, as the place where it is found is of
difficult access, the effects of it as a manure have not been
tried.  Were we to value what is curious, rather than what
is useful, Auchindoir might boast of being one of the few
parishes in Scotland which produce asbestos.  It is found on a
hill called Towinreef, in the bed of a little rill, but in no
great quantity.  One Jeans, from Aberdeen, found a great
deal of it by digging in the neighbourhood.

   Population.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the num-
ber of souls in 1755, was 839.  As the registers here have
been very inaccurately kept, it is impossible to say what the
ancient population has been.  The register of baptisms, which

<FOOTNOTE>

distempers but such as are common in the north of Scotland.  Rheumatism is
the most prevalent, and gravel among persons in the decline of life.  lnocula-
tion for the small-pox has taken place of late.  Last spring 50 were inoculated
by a surgeon in the neighbouring parish, who very humanely gave attendance
and medicines to the poor for nothing.


