
                                      COMRIE.                    587

       Gospel, have to a manifest degree operated beneficially on the
       intellectual, moral, and religious character of the body of the
       people. The intelligence of the agricultural class, the religion
       of the manufacturing, and the morality of both classes, are hence,
       it is believed, abnve the average. They read and think for
       themselves, and are not liable to be carried about by every wind
       of opinion. They are, on the whole, honest, sober, frugal, and
       industrious. Only on one occasion during the last seven years,
       was there anything like a seriour disturbance on the streets, and
       that was at a market, by some young men, who beat each other, and,
       being taken before the Sheriff, at once confessed, and were dismissed
       with a fine. Although there has been an endeavour to exercise
       scripturally strict discipline, no more than about two dozen of per-
       sons are under sentence of exclusion excluded from church commu-
       nion for offences of all sorts.  All parents shew a laudable desire to
       educate their children.  The public ordinances of religion are well
       attended; and the Sabbath is observed with great outward decorum.
       Some time igo, a south country proprietor, on a visit in this parish,
       wishing to send away his luggage by a cart on the Sabbath, could
       not get an individual in the parish who would do this, for favour or
       money.  But, with all our external morality and religion the vi-
       rifying power of the gospel of Jesus.  Christ seems to be not much
       sought or experienced amongst us.
                                 IV.-INDUSTRY.
         In so extensive a parish, it is difficult to obtain accurate statis-
       tics of agriculture; and on variou.,- points, we cannot even reach ap-
       proxirnations to the truth.  The proprietors, or their factors on all
       the estates, have politelx furnished answers to the queries sent to
       them; and from these, it is calculated that the number of acres,
       standard imperial measure, in the parish, which are either cultivated
       or occasionally in tillage, amounts to 7097;  waste or in pasture
       55,571; improvable, 1865; common or disputed, 1315; under,
       wood, 3139.  The quoad civilia portion attached to Wquhidder
       may contain 250 acres amble, and 3500 acres of pasture.
         Oak coppice is the species of wood most attended to; and in the
       larger properties, there are twenty-two annual hags or cuttings,
       which, sold by auction, amount to the annual value of I.. 1248.
         Rent.-The average rent of arable land is L.1 6s per, acre,
       and of hill pasture 2s. per acre, making the average rental of the
       parishtobe LI 2000.  The valued rent amounted tol....344,8s
       IOid. Sterling, or L.4133, 6s. sd. Scots, so that the actual rental


