
               CRAIL.                             949

the tenant, and added a large house at the north end of it for a
billiard room. The General seems to have had one son, who died
young, and was interred in the choir of the church of Crail. His
three daughters became respectively Duchess of Portland, Count-
ess of Moray, and Lady Canning. By these noble persons the
castle was sold to Thomas, Earl of Kellie, who pulled down the
old building, and reduced it to what it now is. Sir Thomas
Erskine, great-grandson of said Earl, is now the proprietor.
In the Castle of Balcomie Mary of Guise was hospitably enter-
tained by the then proprietor, in June 1538, having landed, after
a stormy passages at the adjoining creek of Fifeness, to be mar-
ried to King James V.
   Airdrie House, which is sittiated in one of the most beautiful
and commanding positions in the parish, is embosomed in wood
in every direction, except the south, wlience the finest view is to
be had; but, like the other ancient dwellings, it is no longer the
habitation of a belted knight or noble peer. Yet the ancient
tower and most of the walls of the original house remain entire,
though the interior arrangements are made to correspond to mo-
dern taste. Of this place, Sibbald says, "in King David ll.'s
reign I find that it belonged to Dundemore of that ilk. , After-
wards it came to the Lumsdens, who had it in 1466." The fa-
mily of Lumsden possessed it till at least the end of the sixteenth
century, as is proved by a fine monument erected in the church-
yard, of date 1598. From the Lumsdens, says the same writer,
it was purchased by Sir John Preston of Pennyetiik, President of
the Session in King James Vl.'s time, though it would appear he
inherited it through his lady.
  This baronet seems, along with many of the gentlemen in his
neigbbourbood, to have keenly espoused the cause of Charles I.,
and to have been subjected to pains and penalties in consequence.
For, within a month after the death of that ill-fated monarch, we
find in the record of the kirk-session, 16th February 1649, that,
Lord Balcomie, Sir Jnhn Preston of Airdrie, Lawrence Cunning-
ham of Barns, John Lindesav of Wormistone, and a number of
others, whose names are mentioned, had to appear before the con-
gregation to acknowledge publicly their sinful engagement, and
sign the covenant. During the. seventeenth century Airdrie be-
came the property of General Anstruther, who greatly enlarged,
the house by the addition of two wings, of which the one was a
large and lofty hall, with figures in niches, pictures on the walls


