
			    DURRIS.                            173

tradition reports were the places from which the artillery was fired.
Perhaps the hill may have been converted into this purpose, from
being originally a dun or law, that is, a place for administering
justice in ancient times; many others of a similar description being
found in different parts of the country. Several Druidical temples
are also to be met with in the parish, but none in a perfect state.
	Modern Buildings.--The only modern building deserving of
notice, is the mansion-house of Durris, built by John Innes, Esq.
lessee of the whole estate. This building is connected with the
ancient mansion-house by an extensive colonnade; and both have
now undergone extensive repairs and additions by the present pro-
prietor. There is no place of worship in the parish except the
parish church, built in 1822. The parish formerly was a chapelry
belonging to the Knights Templars, or some other very ancient
Popish order. The date on a part of the old church still remain-
ing, is 1537.

<TABLE=Population>
		             III.--POPULATION.
		Amount of population in 1801,        605
					1811,        724
					1821,        945
					1831,       1035
Number of families in the parish,                              213
	   chiefly employed in agriculture,                    140
			trade, manufactures or handicraft,      55
Illegitimate births in the course of the last three years,       8
	From the benevolence and liberality of the late Duke of Gor-
don, under whose leases the whole parish is at present occupied,
the people are able to enjoy, in a moderate degree, the comforts
and advantages  of society; and are, in general, contented with
their situation.

 			   IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The number of imperial acres under tillage is
nearly 4000; 1000 and upwards are in plantations, and perhaps
10,000 in pasture, mosses, moors, and hills; but of this, more
than 1000 acres are fit to be improved and could be brought under
cultivation, at a moderate expense; and a great deal of it would
be as productive as some now under the plough.
	Rent.--The average rent of arable land per acre is somewhat
under L.1. The average rent of grazing an ox or cow is about
L.1 for the summer or grass season, and about L.1, l0s. for the
winter; the keep of a sheep, about 2s. 6d. a-year.
	Live Stock.--The common breed of sheep is the black-faced;
and of cattle, the hummel or dodded. The colour preferred is black
dun, or branded. Some, however, have lately introduced the Ayr-


