
			TUNDERGARTH.                          197

        Historical Notices.-The church and parish of Tundergarth
appear to be of ancient establishment, seeing the advowsons never
belonged to the Bishops of Glasgow. The manor of Tunder-
garth seems to have belonged to the family of Johnstone, where
they had a castle, of which, however, no part now remains. The
prevailing name was formerly Johnstone. The lands and patronage
of the church belonged in the reign of James IV. to Lord Her-
ries, in whose family they remained till the union of the crowns.
From Lord Herries they passed to Murray of Cockpool, whose
successors, the Viscounts of Stormont, held them in the reign of
Charles II. The patronage at present belongs to Lord Mans-
field.
        Land-owners.- The property in this parish is very much divided.
The chief landed proprietors are Thomas Beattie, Esq. of Crieve,
John Swan, Esq. of Whitstonehill, and William Johnstone, Esq.
of Grange.
        Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers have been very
irregularly kept hitherto; but measures have now been taken
to have them regularly kept in future.
        Antiquities.-In regard to antiquities, the oldest seemingly of
which this parish can boast is a Roman road, discovered a few
years ago on the north side, and passing from the Roman camp
on Burnswark Hill, in a direction north-west. Traces of it have
been found from thence to Closeburn ; that being the tract by
which the Romans under Agricola forced their way into Strath
Cluid. The road was covered with about nine hnches of earth.
It is formed of broad flat stones, well packed together with water-
sand in the interstices. It is about eight feet wide.
	There are still to be seen in many places small entrenched
camps or Birrens, as they are called. They are an on elevated
situations; generally of a round form, very prominent, and in good
preservation;. and they consist of a strong vallum and fosse, with-
out any outworks. The area seldom exceeds an acre, and is often
less. It is conjectured that they were constructed during the long
feuds and border wars by the Septs or lairds, to protect them-
selves and cattle from the English, and from one another. It is
probable, however, that some of these may be of an earlier date,

Johnstones of Tundergarth and those of Lockerbie, in which three of the latter family
and two of the former were killed. A feud, it is said, existed at the time between the
two families, and to prevent any quarrelling, the family of Tundergarth were not
invited to the funeral. However, some of them came to the burying-ground, and a
quarrel, as had been dreaded, taking place, the consequences were as we have stated.


