
920				PERTHSHIRE.

ground of Rosemount, in the face of an almost perpendicular cliff
rising out of the bed of the rivers; but it has now been abandoned.
There is still another quarry of fine gray sandstone at Parkhead,
in the southern district of the parish; but it has not been worked
to any considerable extent of late years, owing to the expense of
carriage, and the difficulty of keeping the excavations free from
the water, with which they are liable to be inundated.
   Fisheries.--The only fishery carried on in the parish is sal-
mon-fishing, which has now much decreased in value, owing to
the fish -being intercepted and destroyed in such numbers on
their way from the sea at the fishing-stations further down, in
the Tay and Isla. Previous to the commencement of the present
century, salmon and grilse were very plentiful in the river; so
much so, that, in the year 1804, no less than 336 salmon and
grilse were caught at one haul in a pool called the Coble Pool, in
the neighbourhood of the village; but, owing to the cause alre`dy
mentioned, they are now scarce and high-priced. The fishing
along the whole course of the Ericht, from the Keith to the
boundary of the parish, is now let for L.21, 12s. per annum; and
even this sum is considered much too high.*

<FOOTNOTE>It may not be considered out of place here to describe the method of fishing
with the hand-net, which is curious, and is believed to be peculiar to this parish.
The net used is what is called a pock-net, about six feet six inches in depth, fixed on
a hoop or "scob" formed of elastic hazel wands. This hoop or "scob" is about four
feet in diameter, of an oval or circular form, and is attached to an elastic pole or
handle about 21 feet in length. When the river is in flood, the fishermen, standing
on the rocky brink of the water where it is narrowed by the approach of the rocks
on each side to a breadth of from 8 to 12 feet, dips down the net into the eddies
formed by the projecting points of rock turning aside the force of the stream, and
into which the salmon retire to avoid the strength of the current, and recover
themselves before attempting to leap the fall immediately above; and, by means of
the long elastic handle, he moves the net slowly along from six to eight feet beneath
the surface of the water, and the moment he feels any obstruction to its progress, he
hauls it rapidly up, and lands the fish on the rock without trouble. In this way,
when the fish are plentiful, and the river swollen with rain, considerable numbers of
salmon and grilse are caught. When the river is small and clear, it is artificially dis-
coloured, by throwing a quantity of mortar into it above the fall about the dusk of the
evening, and the fish are then caught in the same way during the night. There is still
another expedient put in practice for the destruction of the fish. When the river is small,
its breadth from rock to rock, about thirty yards below the fall, is not more than six or
eight feet; and at this narrow part a net nearly of the same form as those already
described, but shorter in the handle, and sufficiently large to fill up nearly the whole
space from side to side, is put down into the water, as near to the bottom as possible,
and the fish are dislodged from under the rocks above, and forced downwards by
means of a long pole with a mass of red cloth at the end of it, which is pushed under
the rocks. Terrified and confused by the noiset and splashing, and the glare of the
uncouth instrument with which it is performed, the salmon rush blindly down to es-
cape from it, and fall into the net placed to intercept them. Frequently, however,
they escape the danger, either by getting past or under the net, or by darting out of
it agahn before it can be raised to the surface.
    We are satisfied, from personal observation, that salmon do hear, though this is
a disputed point in natural history.

					3


