
                        CAMBUSLANG.                         425

chara is also found in the same places. The Calitriche aquatica,
variety B, occurs near Carmyle. The Circaea Lutetiana abounds in
the woods. The Veronica scutellata is found in bogs at Kenmuir,
immediately on the confines of the parish. The following may also
be mentioned as interesting to botanist: Aira aquatica, near Gil-
bertfield Castle; Aira caryophyllea, Dechmont; Sherardia arvensis,
plentiful; Galium Mollugo, on the Clyde; Alchemilla minor, variety
B, Dechmont; Campanula latifolia; Scutellaria minor; Althaea
moschata; Carex hirta; Taxus baccata, at Flemington. The
Equisetum sylvaticum grows on the road side between Hamilton
and Cambuslang, and the E. hyemale at Carmyle ford.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The history of this barony and parish can be traced as far back
as the time of Alexander II. During his reign it belonged to Wal-
ter Olifard, the justiciary of Lothian, and it afterwards passed into
the hands of the Morays of Bothwell. In 1370 the Castle of Both-
well, and also the barony of Drumsbarg or Drumsargart, came into
the possession of Archibald the Grim, Earl of Douglas, by his mar-
riage with Johanna, daughter of Sir Thomas Moray of Bothwell.
The Douglases continued in possession of the property till 8th
November 1452, when it was disponed by James Earl of Douglas
to James Lord Hamilton. In 1455, on the forfeiture of the Dou-
glases, Lord Hamilton acquired the superiority of the barony also,
by obtaining a charter from James II. as tenant in capite; and it
has remained with his descendants ever since. In the seventeenth
century the name of the barony (which includes nearly two-thirds
of the parish) was changed from Drumsargart to Cambuslang.
	The "Cambuslang Work."--The parish of Cambuslang has
long been celebrated for the religious impressions which were
produced under the ministry of the Rev. Mr M'Culloch in
1742. Party spirit and selfish motives have each exhausted
their ingenuity in giving a gloss to these transactions, and in bend-
ing them so as to suit their own peculiar views and purposes.
Keeping clear of the heterodox fury of secession incredulity on
the one hand, and of the too ready credence of zealous and inte-
rested though well-meaning partizans on the other, our object
shall be merely to give a statistical view of facts, and to leave the
reader to draw his own conclusions. The religious phenomena,
commonly called the "Cambuslang work," seems to have originated
in circumstances apparently accidental. The kirk of Cambuslang
being too small and out of repair (as is too often the case in the pre-


