
84                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

other article of food, has risen of late years. In the earlier part
of the season, that is, from February till June, the prices are 2s.
6d., 2s., and 1s. 10d. per lb. In June, July, and August, the
prices generally are for salmon, 6d.; grilse, 4d.; trout and her-
ling, 3d. per lb. In September, there is a slight advance on
each. Fifty years ago, salmon was so abundant and so cheap,
that servants in this neigbbourhood, on being hired, made it a
part of their bargain, that they were not to be fed upon it more
than twice a-week. Although salmon have lately so much in-
creased in numbers, large ones are not so common as formerly.
Within the last eight years, one only has weighed thirty pounds,
and no other has come near it. Fish of that weight used not to
be scarce, and sometimes they far exceeded it. The fishing sea-
son commences upon the 1st of February, and closes on the 25th
of September. * The bull-trout is often caught. He varies
from five to twenty lbs. An unskilful person is very apt to select
him, as I have often witnessed, from a group of salmon, as the finest
and richest of the lot; but, although a handsome fish, his quality as
food is utterly detestable. On being cut up, he appears white
instead of red, and has nothing of the flavour, firmness, or delicacy
of the salmon. He is distinguished by greater roundness of body
and bluntness of nose, and also by two or three large spots upon
his cheeks, which are wanting in the other; but the surest exter-
nal mark is the state of the gills, which in the salmon are clear,
and of a beautiful deep red, while those of the bull-trout are of a
pale dirty colour, and foul with fresh water maggots of the bigness
of a small pea. At the same time that these maggots are found on
the gills of the bull-trout, sea lice appear on its body,--a fact which
might, at first sight, seem to be fatal to the theory I have ventured
to hint at, respecting one of the inciting causes of the periodical mi-
grations of salmon. But there are two circumstances which may
perhaps account for the singularity in this case. One is the soft-
ness and the white colour of the fish, as compared with the rest
of the salmon tribe, all of which are firm and red when in season.
By long continuance in the fresh water, migratory fish become
pale and flaccid. The probability, therefore, is, that the periodical
migrations of the bull-trout are short and frequent, or, in other
words, that it is the habit of this fish to hover betwixt the salt and

<FOOTNOTE>A greater number of salmon are taken in July than in any one month of the
eight during which the river is open. The greatest number I ever knew taken in
that month was in the year 1840, namely, 1426,

                                           4



	

