
                         STRATHDON.                          545

parish being, Invernochtie.  It has been a place of considerable
strength in a remote age.  Chalmers mentions traces of a Roman
ter from Dee-side, which would point precisely in this direction.
The traces of science in fortification would support the conjecture,
that it rnight be a Roman fort to preserve the line of communica-
tion across the country; or it may pertain to a later era, and have
been one of those forts erected by the Picts or Britons as a pro-
tection against the incursions of the Danes, and other northern
hordes from the north-west.  The former Account mentions " the
ruins of buildings in the neighbourhbood."  These have been long
since obliterated by the plough.
   Eirde Houses.-Five of these interesting vestiges of antiquity,
called Eirde Houses, from being subterranean, have been discover-
ed in the parish.  We have been so often applied to for some ac-
count of them, that a brief description of one is deemed necessary.
It is a singular fact that, both in this parish and in Kildrummy,
where they are still more numerous, they are all of the same shape.
The outer passage, which lies to the south, is circular, and about
8 feet in length.  The exterior chamber is 24 feet long, 6 feet 8
inches high, greatest breadth across the floor 8 feet 8 inches,
while at the roof it is only 6 feet 6 inches.  The floor is laid with
stones.  The foundation, or lowest course, consists of 22 stones,
averaging 3 feet in height, so set up as to give the largest surface
to the inside of the wall, and they all decline outwards from the
perpendicular.  Above these are several courses of smaller stones,
so placed that each covers the joint of the under stones, and in-
clines a little more inward.  The whole wall, on each side, thus
forms the segment of a large vertical circle.  On the side walls are
laid nine flat stones, 8 feet 6 inches in length, and 3 feet 8 inches
in breadth, which form the roof.  The interstices are jammed full
of small stones, but there is no appearance of any kind of cement
having been used, neither is there any indication on the stones of
the hammer having been employed.  On the north side of this
chamber is an aperture 15 inches high, 7 inches wide at the bot-
tom, and 10 inches at the top, which communicates with a small
apartment, 5 feet long, and 1 foot broad ; the back, cover, and
ends being each a single stone.  On the same side, very near the
inner end of the outer apartment, is another opening, 2 feet high,
and 1 foot 8 inches wide, and 3 feet above the floor which leads
to the inner chamber.  Here is the only angle that occurs,-all
the other parts being segments of circles.  The length of this
   ABERDEEN.                        M m


