
     Stastical Account

   Antiquities.-  There is scarcely any monument of antiqui-
ty in the parish.  Even the large detached stones arranged
circularly on various eminences, and accounted temples of
the Druids, are generally removed for the fake of agicul-
ture.  The old parochial church was an antique Gothic
building, 95 feet long within;  but being only 18 feet
wide, and 14 in the quire, was not near half the size of the
present church. At the demolition of it in 1787, were
found among the rubbish, about 40 pieces of bright gold
coin of Robert I. of Scotland, having that King's head
encircled with the words Robertus rex Scotorum, and  St
Andrew with his cross on the reverse.  Each piece was
equal in breadth to a guinea of the present reign, and pre-
cisely one fourth of it in weight.  They were all much
worn, and had been deposited in a niche of the wall fix
feet above the ground-floor, probably in some time of pu-
blic danger.  On a plain, half a mile fouth form the town
is a circle of 12 yards diameter, (lately surrounded with a
low wall of earth and stone, and now left open in the
planation,) on which the Steward of the King's estate of
Stratherm formerly helds his court, after that earldom fell to
the Crown by the forseiture of the Countess Joanna, who,
having married the English Earl of Warren, was found
guilty of treasonable practices againts Robert I.  and the
office of Steward in time became hereditary in the family
of Drummond, till the abolition of heritable jurisdictions
in 1784.  For the accomodation of that court, and other
public business, was built in 1665 the present tolbooth,

<FOOTNOTE>

last Tuesday of May, O S.  is Torot market, for cattle, horses, etc.  now
more frequented than any other in this part of the country;  and though
it stands within the limits of Monivaird parish, yet being within half a
mile of Crieff, more money is that day left among the inhabitants for
liquors, clothes, groceries, and all sorts of merchandise, than on any other
throughout the year.

     3


