
570                   FORFARSHIRE.

ing arisen, amongst geologists, as to the precise formation
to which, the strata they occur in are to be held as belong-
ing. It may, therefore, be desirable to state the conclusions
to which a careful examination of this very interesting locality
and the district around would seem to give rise. But, as in
examining a particular locality, it is necessary, in order to form
any conclusion as to its geological character, not only carefully to
examine that locality, but also as much of the district around as
shall be necessary to determine its relative position, with regard
to the strata connected with it;-so, therefore, it will here be ne-
cessary, in order to point out the particular character of the strata
in this parish, to make some remarks on the nature of the strata
of the district around, and to state the conclusions drawn from a
careful examination of them.
  The stratified rocks of this parish are of two kinds,-red sand-
stone and gray sandstone. There are but few localities at which
their precise point of contact can be traced with much distinct-
ness, and there has, therefore, been some doubt as to which of
them is superimposed on the other. Dr Fleming states, that the
gray sandstones overlie the red, (Cheek's Edin. Journal, Feb.
1831), whilst Mr Lyell (in his Elements of Geology), states,
that the red sandstones overlie the gray. But these localities,
combined with an attentive observation of the general position of
the strata, afford conclusive grounds on which to determine this
fact, from which it distinctly appears that the red sandstone over-
lies the gray. The general line of direction, or crop of the strata,
where they appear to be free from the immediate influence of
trap rocks, is from south-east to north-west, the dip, therefore,
being towards the south-west. The strata along the high, ground,
which forms the northern boundary of the Carse of Gowrie, is
almost entirely occupied by gray sandstone, whilst the red sand-
stone is generally found occupying the low ground, and apparently
contained within the limits of the gray sandstone, where the strata,
from a change of dip, assume a somewhat basined form, which oc-
curs at different places in the neighbourhood, and also, in some
degree, in, the Carse of Gowrie. These sandstones vary consi-
derably in character and internal structure at different points.
The general character and of the gray sandstone is,-finely grained;
compact, of a dullish-gray colour, varying in character from friable
schist, to compact sandstone in deep beds, well stuited for building.
It is, in some instances, highly inicaceous, at other times, ap-


