
<APPENDIX>

No XXVIII.  Extract of a Note from George Chalmers, Esq; of the
Board of Trade, dated 27th May 1796.

   HE congratulates Sir John on the near accomplishment of his great
Work, and is glad to find, that perseverance is attended, on this occa-
sion, with such happy success.

No XXIX.  Extract Translation of a Letter from the Bishop de Leon,
dated 17th July 1797.

   I READ, with peculiar interest, your Work concerning the Statistical State
of Scotland, because I had been engaged, some years ago, 10 similar in-
quiries in my own diocese, though not on so great a scale.  Such inquiries
afford the true means of ascertaining the best mode of improving the con-
dition of a people.

No XXX.  Extract of a Letter from Mr George Stuart, formerly Pro-
fessor of Humanity in the University of Edinburgh.

<UNREADABLE>

OF all the letters which I received in the course of this inquiry, there is
none which could possibly have had greater influence with me, than the
following.  Those who have been educated at the University of Edin-
burgh, must remember well, Professor George Stuart, (father of the
well known Dr Gilbert Stuart), one of the best scholars, and one of the
ablest men, at that University, when it certainly   valled, for erudition
and talents, the most celebrated seminaries in Europe.  I had attended
his class, but had not seen him for many years.  It was by the merest
accident, (franking a letter to him), that any intercourse was renewed
between us.  The respectable Professor, thought he would embrace that
opportunity, of encouraging his old Pupil to persevere in a course, which
met with his particular approbation.  I think it right to give a larger
extract from that letter, as it may be as serviceable to other young men,
as to the person to whom it was addressed.

</UNREADABLE>

   I HAD the honour of a letter last night from Lord Buchan, in which he
desires me to send my answer to Sir John Sinclair, who will transmit it
by post.  It is with peculiar pleasure that I embrace this opportunity, which
has been put in my way by his Lordship, of troubling you with this note, in
order to revive the ideas of your youth, and to congratulate you on the


