
                     DUNOON AND KULMUN.				   613

<TABLE>

Population of the united parish,	-	-	-	-	-	2853
Of these, there reside in the village of Dunoon and immediate vicinity,   1296
                                         Kilmun and immediate vicinity,	   215
The population of the parish of Dunoon proper,        -        -        - 2136
				Kilmun proper,  -	-	-	-  717
Population residing in the country, parish of Dunoon proper,	-	-  940
                                                   Kilmun proper,       -  502
Average yearly number of births for the last seven years,	-	-   58
	                 marriages for the last seven years,	-	-   20 1/2
Average number of persons above 80,	-	-	-	-	-   27

  In the above statements, it may be remarked that the village
Of Dunoon is reckoned as embracing the whole population from
Hunter's Quay at the one extremity, to the place of Buthkolidar
at the other; and the village of Kilmun is reckoned as embracing
the whole population from the point of Strone to the bridge across
the Eachaig. During the summer and autumn months, the po-
pulation of both these villages is considerably more than doubled.
It is also proper to record that there are

<TABLE>

  In the parish of Dunoon proper, speaking the Gaelic language,   850
                     Kilmun proper, -        -                    526

It is also necessary to remark, with respect to the average num-
ber of births, that Dissenters are not in the habit generally of re-
cording their baptisms in the parochial register. There is no
register of burials kept.
  The number of families of independent fortune, permanently
residing in the united parish, does not exceed six or seven, though
several such families having villas in the vicinity of Dunoon, and
in the villages of Dunoon and Kilmun, make these places gene-
rally their summer residence.
  The number of proprietors at present is 13 of L.50 and up-
wards of income, derived from lands in the united parish.

<TABLE>

Number of houses in the village of Dunoon, reckoned as above, and counted as
  separate buildings, some inhabited by more than one family, is	-    342
Number of houses in the village of Kilmun,	-	-	-	-     56

  The rental of houses in the village of Dunoon, deducting feu-
duty, has been estimated at L.3525. The price of feus varies
from L.4 to L.30 per imperial acre, according to situation and
circumstances. The average rate of feuing at Dunoon may be
stated at L.12 per acre, annual feu-duty, and from L.10 to L.12
at Kilmun. There are ten houses in the village of Dunoon in
progress of erection this year, and three at Kilmun. Building
has not increased so rapidly for the last four or five years in these
villages as previously. The depression experienced during the
last two years in manufacture and commerce in Glasgow and the
other towns on the Clyde has evidently produced this effect, and
both these villages being now, from facility of intercourse, and the


