
270                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

exposed as the old situation was snug and sheltered, at a cost of
L. 900 Sterling. The offices remain where they were. -The glebe
consists of 4 acres of good land, together with the said glen, com-
monly called Morham Braes, as a grass grebe, the extent of which
may be about 2 acres of excellent early pasture.-The stipend
is augmented by the Government Bounty from L. 109, 2s. Sterling.
-The patronage seem always to have belonged to the Lord of
the Manor, but was retained by Miss Dalrymple when the pro-
perty was sold.
   There are few Dissenters in the parish,-none among the te-
nantry, with the exception of one family recently come. The peo-
ple attend church with becoming regularity. Average number of
communicants 95; male heads of families, 32.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one. The salary
of the schoolmaster is L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2 d. with an allowance for de-
ficiency of garden ground. He has the legal accommodations, al-
though the house is small and inconvenient. There is a capital
school-house lately built anew. Owing to the convenience of situ-
ation of the school and other circumstances, there is a much greater
attendance of scholars than the parish supplies,-the average num-
ber being so high as 75. The branches taught, are, besides the
usual ones, geography, mensuration, and French. There are
generally three or four learning the languages.-There is not an in-
dividual of a proper age in the parish who cannot read, and the peo-
ple have a just sense of the value of education to their children.-
The minister meets the children belonging to the congregation
after sermon on the Sabbath.
   Poor and, Parochial Funds.-The sources of aid to the poor of
the parish are, the collections of the church door, and mortcloth
dues, the interest of a small sum of money now lessening, and when
these fail assessments. There is at present only one person
receiving a regular allowance, but a few others get occasional aid,
and a supply of coals, meal, and flannel in winter. There is, be-
sides, the burden of an orphan child. The people still cherish in
general an honourable aversion to "coming upon the parish."
   Fuel.-The fuel used is coal, brought generally from Penston
colliery, distant about eight miles. The price of a cart is nearly,
doubled by the carriage.
   Inns.-There is only one ale-house at Crossgate Hall, kept by
the patriarch of the parish. There is not a drunkard from one
end of the parish to the other.


