
296			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Education.--The parochial school, we regret to say, is not well
attended. This, however, cannot be said of the unendowed semi-
naries, which are three in number, and at which most of the usual
branches of education are taught. The salary of the parochial
schoolmaster is L. 35; and the yearly amount of fees which he
actually receives cannot, it is believed, exceed L. 12. The parish
school-house is large and most commodious in every respect, and
yet those parents who can afford it almost universally prefer sending
their children to the other schools, where the fees are larger.
	Poor.--There are two separate mortifications belonging to the
poor of this parish. The one, bonsisting of L. 1119, 19s. 4d. Scots
money, given by the Rev. J. Alexander in the year 1701; the
other, consisting of 1000 merks, given by John Sharpe, Esq. of
Hoddam in the year 1715. Of these two sums the accumulated
interest has amounted to a capital of L. 468. This sum at pre-
sent yields (at 3 1/2 per cent.) L. 16, 18s. 6d. Besides this, the in-
terest of the two mortified sums already-mentioned (which are
lying on the estate of Hoddam) amounts to L. 6, 2s. 6d. The
weekly collections at the church produce about L. 35, and the oc-
casional loan of the hearse brings upwards of L. 3 more per an-
num. It will be seen that about L. 60 is obtained every year in
these different ways. Yet this is not sufficient to meet the wants
of the paupers (regular and irregular) with which this parish
abounds. The fact is, pauperism is not here considered at all so
degrading now as formerly; and this (taken in connection with
the enlargement of the farms, and the extraordinary number of
old people in the parish,) may, in some measure, account for the
alarming fact, that, within the last seven years, the voluntary (for
as yet there is no legal *) assessment has increased from L. 18 to
L. 140 per annum, and this although the population has been all
the time on the decrease. The annual average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 24, and the annual average sum allotted
to each individual is L. 7, 10s.--L. 5 of which is taken from the as-
sessed sum, and L. 2, 10s. from the session funds.

<FOOTNOTE>The above-mentioned sum of L. 468 has now fallen into the hands of the heri-
tors, whose object is, by its immediate distribution, to obtain the power of exacting a
too assessment.

	March, 1834.


