
                                    ALYTH.                           1117

       Alexander II., and received a grant of lands in this parish, which
       his descendants still hold, in reward for having saved the life of
       the King by a critical operation; according to popular tradition,
       by "cutting a hair-ball from the King's heart." One of his de-
       scendants, James Ramsay, attained to eminence in the same pro-
       fession, and was Physician to James I. and Charles I.  Mr Tho-
       mas Aiton, who was minister of this parish in the earlier part of-
       last centurx, was a man of considerable learning, and the author
       of a Treatise on the Original Government of the Church.  James
       Sandy, a bed-ridden cripple, who died here in 1821, attained
       great local celebrity by his extraordinary mechanical genius.
          Land-owners.-The chief l`nd-owners in the parish, in respect
       of valued rent, are, the Earl of Airlie; John Smyth, Esq. of
       Balhary; Sir James Ramsay of Bamff, Bart; George Knight,
       Esq. of Jordanstone; Captain Clayhills Henderson, of,Hallyards;
       and the Honourable Willial Ogilvie of Loyall.  In respect of
       real rent, Mr Smyth of Balhary is the principal heritor.  The
       family of Airlie have a special grant from the Crown for the name
       of the lands of Loyall, in commemoration of their fidelity to
       Charles I. and II. during the great Rebellion.
         Antiquities.-On Barry Hill (from the Gaelic Bar-ra, a hill
       fort,) there are the remains, still in very perfect preservation, of
       an ancient Pictish entrenchment of great strength.  The summit
       has been levelled into an area of an oval form, about 150 yards
       in circumference, and surrounded with a rude rampart of unhewn
       and uncemented stones.  It is protected on the east and south by
       a deep fosse about ten feet in width ; the other rides of the hill
       being so steep as to render such a defence superfluous.  The ap-
       proach was from the north-east, along the verge of a precipice,
       and the entrance was protected by a bulwark of stone.  There
       are some remains of a narrow bridge thrown over the fosse.  In
       the different accounts of this fort which have been published, the
       stones of the bridge are said to have been cemented by the action
       of fire; but the slight marks of vitrifaction, which may probably
       be accidental, are not sufficient to warrant the statement.  There
       hs no vestiae of a well; but, on the west side of the entrenchment,
       between the base of the mound and the precipice, there was a
       deep pond, apparently artificial, which was filled up about fifty or
       sixty years ago by the tenants in the neigbbourhood.  On the de-
       clivity, about a quarter of a mile to the eastward, tbere are some
       less perfect remains of a smaller entrenchment of the same kind.
       The fort on Barry Hill is considered by Chalmers as coeval with


