
178                     ARGYLESHIRE.

handed down with great minuteness, and, with a degree of accu.
racy in their general and more important details, amply confirmed
by all the information as to the early life of Somerled, which his-
tory affords.  At the period referred to, early in the twelfth cen-
tury, the clan M'lnnes occupied Morvern, and had suffered se-
verely in withstanding the repeated attempts of the marauding
Norsemen to reduce them to entire subjection, They were now
menaced with another attack.  The Lochalin galleys were moored
on their shores, and the more experienced of the clan assembled
to deliberate on the unhappy position in which they were placed,
and to determine what course they should pursue in so critical an
emergency.  Various opinions were given, and various plans sug-
gested, but unanimity when so much required, did not pervade the
council, whereupon an aged individual addressed them, setting
forth at detailed length the dangers to which such dissensions ex-
posed them, and how vain it was, while each contended for supe-
riority, to encounter a foe united as one man, and obedient to the
commands of an acknowledged leader, concluding by suggesting,
that, as Somerled was then taking refuge in their country, they
should devolve upon him the command, and commit themselves
implicitly to his guidance.  This suggestion was at once agreed
to, and an embassy was despatched to communicate their deter-
mination to Somerled, which on proceeding in the direction of
the not very capacious cave occupied by him and his father on the
shores of the Linnhe Loch, still known as the cave of Gille-Bride,
found Somerled engaged in angling in the Gear-Abhain.  On
their first advance, be seemed reluctant to permit a near approach,
and even when assured of their friendly intentions, received them
with great though courteous reserve.  He appeared thoughtful, if
not pensive, much as he is described in an incomplete manuscript,
(supposed to be of great antiquity), which, referring perhaps to this
very period of his life, states " that Somerled kept musing on the
low condition to which he and his father had been brought, and
kept at first very retired."  To the proposal of the M'Innest he
made for a time no reply.  At length, he observed that he was en-
ticed by a sportive salmon, and, if successful in landing him, he
would consider it a good omen.  The eager messengers stood by,
the salmon was hooked, and after some bold plunges and struggles,
was at length safely landed on the bank.  But Somerled angled not
for amusement solely.  Before agreeing to accompany the M'ln-
nes's, he proceeded under the constraint of a higher duty, to his


