			PERTH.                              023

	attached to many of our manufacturing institutions, and the pro-
	prietors of these have acted laudably in this respect.  But it must
	be acknowledged that the schools - have much more value in gap-
	pearance than they have in reality: for how is it possible thatsuch
	young creatures-a great portion of whose time, nature says,
	should be spent in amusing pursuit-can apply with requisite at-
	tention to,tbe tasks of -in evening school after a long day'stoiling
	in a spinniDg-Mill.  They in general require to be then put to
	rest, and not to any new exertion' whatever.  That children, at
	whatever age they be, may be taught effichently, it is necessary
	that their physical strength be unexhausted.
	  Another reason to which I am disposed to ascribe the present
	deficient instruction in reading, that prevails among many of
	the labouring classes of the community, is insufficiency on the
	part of the teachers.  Many of those (whose pupils are-from among
	the poor) do not look upon teaching as an art which requires any
	previous training, but an employment which any one almost may
	easily follow; and they, therefore, cannot be expected to conduct
	a school with advantage to the pupils, unfortunately placed under
	them.  In short, they know nothing, as they ought to know, of the
	deeply important business in which they have enfaged.  Incalcu-
	lable detriment arises from this to the young generation.  Their
	attention is directed solely to the drudgery of tasks, in reading
	words and sentences, and nothing is done to engage their under-
	standing in the import of what they read.  With such schoolmas-
	ters, teaching is a mere mechanical operation.   By them the
	young idea is not taught to shoot at all., and their goodqcholars,
	as they call them, are at best mere readers, not understanders of
	what is read.
	   These remarks are intended to have a general and not a local
	application.  In Perth there are teachers who have ability and
	zeal in no ordinary degree, and who make it their special endea-
	vour to train their pupils, from the commencement of their reading
	exercises to see and understand the import of what the read; and,
	what is of prime importance, to make them acquainted with scrip-
	ture truth and moral duty.  They sustain a character, for pro-
	sessional attainment and vigorous discharge of professional duty,
	which will not be found equalled in many other such towns in
	Scotland.
	  In 1834, the magistrates and town-council, with a laudable con-
	cern for the elementary instruction of the among, the ope-



