
     of Dunnottar.

terest of a sum funded for their benefit, and the several in-
cidents in the parish, such as fines, proclamation of banns,
and burials.  In the country, the poor, being generally sober
and industrious, earn a large share of their own maintenance.
In the town, besides relief from the public funds, the poor
receive frequent supplies from charitable persons, in private,
otherwise a legal assessment would be necessary; which has
never yet taken place in this part of the country.

   Ecclesiastical State and School.-The established clergyman,
by a late augmentation, has a living of about 115 L. value,
besides a glebe, which might rent at about 8 L.  The church
was rebuilt in 1782, and the manse in 1786.  In Stonehaven
there are 2 dissenting meetings, one of the qualified Episco-
palians of the Church of England; the other of Scotch Epis-
copalians*; to each of which belong about 150 souls.-The
parish school is placed in Stonehaven, where there is a very
considerable number of scholars, having sometimes amounted
to 100.  The salary and emoluments may be about 40 L.; and
in some years have amounted to 50 L. in proportion to the
number of scholars, and the activity of the teacher+.

     VOL. XI. F f

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Episcopal nonjurant principle was most prevalent in this neighbourhood,
for many years after the late rebellions, owing to attachment to the forfeited
MARISCHAL family.  But the spirit of that sect has here subsided, as well as in
other places; and the people of the different communions live together in the
greatest harmony.  As an instance of the liberality of mind subsisting among
them, in the year 1782, when the parish church was rebuilding, the clergyman,
with the congregation, had access to the qualified EPISCOPAL meeting-house, to
perform divine service; and the two congregations were blended at each of the
services.

+There are few objects, that merit more of the public attention than the edu-
cation of youth, and the improvement of our schools, which, in general, through-
out Scotland, are in a lamentable situation.  It would seem, that by attempting


