
100                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

April, and May.  The inhabitants here, as in every other part of
the Highlands, are particularly accustomed to foretel the weather
from natural phenomena.- This parish is perhaps one of the most
healthy in Scotland, if we may judge from the number of people
who arrive at a very advanced age.  There are many now in the
parish who are eighty, eighty-five, and ninety years old, and still
retain their faculties entire; and some years ago a woman died at
the age of a hundred. Scrofulous affections are becoming com-
mon; and consumptions, fevers, and nervous disorders, are by no
means unknown.
   Hydrography.-This parish is wholly inland, and is, at the near-
est point, ten miles distant from the sea. There is but one lake
of any importance,-called Loch Moy ; it is about a mile and a half
long, and about half a mile broad. Its depth in some places has
been found to be eighteen fathoms ; this is, however, far from be-
ing the average. The lake is situated close to the House of Moy
Hall, which stands on the north side, and to the manse and church
of Moy, situated on the south.  It is surrounded by wood, and
the hanging birch copse has in summer a beautiful appearance.
There are two islands in the lake, in one of which stands the ruins
of the old residence of the family of Mackintosh.  A street has
also been traced in it, so that it is probable that part of his clan
lived in the island with their chief.  There stands also on the is-
land a handsome monument, built in 1824, by Lady Mackintosh,
in memory of her husband, Sir AEneas Mackintosh, Bart.  It is an
elegant building, in the shape of a tapering square pillar, and cost
about L. 1000.  The other island is merely a heap of stones, pro-
bably artificial, and was used by the lairds of Mackintosh as a pri-
son.  In the memory of men now living, there was a gallows standing
upon it, which the lairds used for execution.  Some years ago, there
was a cannon ball of about ten pounds weight, found buried in the
large island; and on the south side of the lake there was a sort of
causeway discovered, in the middle of which there was a large paved
circle, with an immense stone perforated like a mill-stone in the
centre.  This was supposed to be a way made for carrying cannon,
and perhaps the ball may go so far to prove this; but the true nature
of it is difficult to ascertain.  Towards the north-west end of the
lake, there are a number of chalybeate springs; one of them seems
to be impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen, but the exact pro-
portions have not been ascertained.  These have been tried as to
their medical properties and with considerable success.  The cha-


