
                           HOUNAM.                            205

seven years is L. 1, 16s. 7d. Sterling.  This includes the extra
collections made at the celebration of the holy sacrament.
    Education.--There is in the parish only one established school,
--the parochial.  The yearly salary of the schoolmasteris the maxi-
mum, viz. L.34,4s. 4 1/2d. with legal accommodations.  The emolu-
ments of the schoolmaster as session-clerk are 15s.,--as clerk to
the heritors, L. 6 per annum.  The children of paupers are
taught gratis; and the number of scholars attending the school
is in winter about 27, and in summer about 17.  The yearly
amount of school fees received by the teacher does not much
exceed L.9. Children are commonly sent to school about six
years of age, and there are none upwards of seven years who
cannot read, and few above the age of ten or twelve that can-
not write.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--There is no other provision for the
poor in the parish but what arises from the weekly collections at
the church, fees for proclamations, the use of the mortcloth, and
the legal quarterly assessments laid on the landholders and their
tenants,--the landholders paying one-half, and the tenant the other
half,--which yield at an average about L.38, 5s. per annum.  In
former times, the heritors used voluntarily to assess themselves to a
certain amount over and above the legal assessment.  The sum thus
assessed for was called the surplus fund, and was appropriated by the
kirk-session to the relief of incidental distress.  This wholesome prac-
tice, which operated powerfully in keeping paupers from the poors'
roll, has of late years been discontinued.  The average number of
poor on the roll is 8 ; and the yearly sum allotted to each varies
from L. 3 to L. 5.  Some individuals who are incapable of doing
anything for themselves receive as high as L. 6.  Several persons
not on the poors' roll get an occasional supply.  A practice pre-
vails in the parish of raising a small sum for the relief of a poor
family by means of a charity ball, or some other amusement.  Such
is the feeling of independence on the part of the people generally
that it is with considerable reluctance they are induced to apply
for relief.
   Fairs.-Pennymuir Border Tryst is held twice every year on the
Oxnam side of the south-west boundary of the parish, and close
upon the old Roman road which divides the two parishes of Hou-
nam and Oxnam.  It takes place on the 31st day of July and 15th
day of October, and is one of the principal marts for the sale of
lambs and draft ewes in the south of Scotland.  The customs of


