
			CROSSMICHAEL.                      193

Balmaghie, Tongland, and Twynholm on the west, from the pa-
rishes of Kelton and Kirkcudbright on the east. Formerly, there
was no bridge in this neighbourhood over the Dee, ferry-boats
supplying their places, occasioning frequently great annoyance and
danger. The erection, therfore of the one at Glenlochar, up-
wards of thirty years ago, has been a most important acquisition
to the country. The floods of the river, which are sometimes very
frequent, injure the grass on the meadows, rendering it for some-
time unwholesome food for cattle. The breadth of the river is
very variable. Opposite the manse, where there is a ferry-boat,
it is 220 yards broad, and its depth from 40 to 60 feet. The bed
of the river, between Glenlochar bridge and Tongland, is rocky,
and, in many places, shallow.
	The river Urr rises from Loch Urr. It divides the parishes of
Glencairn, Dunscore, Kirkpatrick-Durham, Urr, and Colvend,
on the east side, from the parishes of Balmaclellan, Parton, Cross-
michael, and Buittle, on the west side. The rivers in this neigh-
bourhood do not now discharge the same quantity of water into the
sea as formerly; which is accounted for by supposing that land culti-
vated absorbs much more moisture than it did in its wild state, from
its being more previous to water, and from more of that fluid bding
required for the nourishment and growth of plants. The rivers
Dee and Urr have abundance of trouts, and salmon coming up to
spawn in them are caught in great numbers. The salmon caught
in the Dee are considered superior in quality to those caught in
any other river in the neighbourhood. Few of them pass Tong-
land from the doughs erected there. The pike, perch, and eel
are also to be found in the Dee. The perch is said to have
been first introduced into it in 1750, by Mr Copland of Collies-
ton, and are now taken sometimes in great numbers. From a
statement made by Boethius, and reiterated by Buchanan,-
that eels were formerly caught here in great quantities, and trans-
mitted to Italy, it would a pear that they then existed in much
greater abundance than at present. Mussels are found in the
Dee, from which pearls have been taken of some value.
        Geology.-The rock most common here consists of strata of
the transition class including not only the slateband, but also the
hard compost strata, called greywacke, which is similar to the blue
whinstone of Galloway. The schistus is formed of strata contain-
ing substances very unlike each other. This stone exists in beds,
varying from half an inch to many feet in thickness, and is mixed in
	KIRKCUDBRIGHT.				N


