
                       BEDRULE.                       289


George Dickson, * whom the late Mr William Brown succeeded
in 1788, and died 23d May 1836,--having been minister of Bed-
rule for the long space of forty-eight years.  The present incum-
bent was appointed assistant and successor to the late Mr Brown
in 1832.
   The late Mr Brown was a man of considerable talents and
literature.  Previously to his being ordained a minister, he taught
as an usher in an academy in France, and in one in the neighbour-
hood of London), besides being Some time a teacher in Watson's
Hospital at Edinburgh; and was tutor in the family of Sir John
Stewart of Allanbank at the time he was presented by the late
Joseph Hume, Esq. of Ninewells, to the church and parish of
Bedrule.  He published an edition of the New Testament, with
short explanatory notes, and marks to guide the learner in pro-

<FOOTNOTE>It was during Mr Dickson's incumbency that the iniquitous of the
suppression of the parish and church of Abbotrule took place, which Mr Dickson
strenuously opposed, along with Dr Charters of Wilton.  Mr Dickson's reasons of
protest are recorded in the Presbytery records, and as they are cogent in argument,
and very interesting in the present state of the Church of Scotland, I have deemed it
proper to insert them in full.
   Protest of Mr George Dickson, Minister of Bedrule.
   From this resolution of presbytery  Mr George Dickson dissented, and craved that
his dissent, with the reasons thereof, might be recorded in this day's minute, and took
instruments in the clerk's hands, May 7, 1777.
   The reasons are
   1 mo.  Because he humbly conceives that this method of constituting a pastoral rela-
tion is without rule or precedent in this Reformed Church, nay is such a dangerous
innovation as the presbytery by their ordination vows are bound to guard against.
   2do, Because such afaux pas in our Presbyterial conduct will be watched by our
dissenting neigbbours, as a very welcome handle to draw away to themselves many
of our people, as well as a great part of these annexed parishes.
   3tio, Because he conceives it is unwarrantable to appoint or require the people of
Abbotrule parish to attend public institutions and divine worship at Soathdean  and
Robkirk, without first holding visitations of these two churches, and finding proper
accommodation for their people so appointed--proper places to attend divine worship.
in--the present places of worship there will accommodate little more than one-half
of the inhabitants so conjoined,--and he presumes that the presbytery will not pre-
tend to dispensing powers, allowing one-half of their congregations to stay at home,
nay, not even till such repairs of their churches, were they set about just now, should
be executed; far less when they do not know about when they shall be set about.
He does not dispute but these present houses might hold twice  as many,--for any
thing he knows,ten times as many,disembodied spirits.  But while the worshippers
there continue in the body, it necessarily behoves the presbytery, he presumes, to
take care that those embodied worshippers have places to worship in, suited to their
present embodied state.  And there seems the more reason to doubt of these repaires
being speedily, if ever made. That after all that has been said of maintaining a
school at Abbotrule,the school-house is going into disrepair, already it is stated :
and there has been a School kept there, this last season, to the no small danger,if not
certain detriment of some presbytery, souls.   Complaints thereof has lately been made
to him, as member of presbytery, again and again.  Such complaint is far from be-
ing groundless or trivial ; the instruction of youth in the great Christian Book be-
ing of inexpressible importance. Craving leave to add more reasons, if he shall af-
terwands we cause.
Extracted from the Records of the Presbytery of Jedburgh.        Gzo. DICKSON.


