
                            LAURENCEKIRK.                 137

the married persons, who either have had no children, or with
whom none of their children are now residing, there remain 217 and
67 families, to whom the 817 children actually belong, making
the proportion 2.88 to 1 in the burgh and 2.87 to 1 in the country.
There are 315 houses within the burgh, and 100 in the country,
of which all, with the exception of five of the former, are more or
less occupied.
	Each of the four proprietors draws more than L. 50 of rent
from land in this parish. None of them reside in it; but Mr
Gibbon of Johnston resides in the neighbourhood, and Johnston
Lodge is occupied by Mrs Farquhar, the relict of James Farquhar,
Esq. nf Johnston.
	There has of late been scarcely any building in the parish, ex-
cept where new houses have been erected in place of such as were
decayed: indeed, so small appears to be the demand for addi-
tional dwelling-houses, that several portions of ground which
were feued some years ago still remain without any building up-
on them. The situation of the village affords no peculiar advan-
tages for increase. It is about six miles from any quarry of suita-
ble building stones; there is little or no command of any other
fuel than coal, which is all sea-borne to Johnshaven or Mon-
trose, and from the latter there is a land carriage of ten miles and
from the former upwards of seven. Notwithstanding these circum-
stances, and the rapid and superabundant increase of population,
the inhabitants may be said to enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the
comforts and advantages of society;--and, notwithstandillg the
difficulties with which many of them have to contend, they appear
in general to be contented. The diet of the labouring classes
consists, usually, of meal, milk, and potatoes. Fish is had in consi-
derable abundance; and the use of wheaten bread and of butcher
meat is by no means uncommon, as is vouched by the fact, that
there are in the village three bakers, and as many butchers,
though all of them may not be fully employed in thdir profes-
sion. There are two surgeons resident in the village. The
habits of the people are cleanly: their houses, for the most part,
are kept in good order, undergoing generally more or less of a
weekly purification: and it both improves the appearance of
the place, and promotes the health of the inhabitants, and their
taste for order, that there is attached to almost every dwelling-house
a small piece of garden ground, in keeping which neatly, neigh-
bours have a spirit of becoming emulation. The people are at-


