
	               TONGLAND.                                75

boughs," on the banks of the river which the poet describes; but
Goldsmith says the nightingale is only found in some of the south-
ern counties of England, and is totally unknown in Scotland, Ire-
land and Wales; while Burns, in some strictures addressed to Mr
Thomson on old Scottish songs, censures the writer of "Jamie
the flower of the Dee," as guilty both of false description and of a
blunder in natural history in the line "sweetly the nightingale
sang frae the tree,"--alleging, first, that the nightingale is never
heard so far north; and, secondly, that be sings, not from a tree
but from a bush. In both particulars, the popular opinion coin-
cides with that of those distinguished authors. The authority of
such a writer as Montgomery, however, whose works, indepen-
dently of the great poetical powers which they display, are remark-
able for a close observation of nature, are enriched with numerous
classical allusions, and indicate a mind informed with general
knowledge, stands high upon the other side. The manliness of
his understanding places him beyond the affectation of introducing
the name of a celebrated bird, without any attention to the local
propriety of the allusion, and merely for the sake of tickling the
ear of the ignorant or indolent reader by a sound which calls up
so many associations of romance and melody. It is nearly certain,
either that he must have beard the bird sing where be has placed it,
or that he believed it to be a periodical, although, perhaps, a rare visi-
tant.I am assured, too, by my friend, Mr M'Culloch of Ardwall, that,
in the year 1826, he is convinced he heard the song of the nightin-
gale, with which be had been familiar in other countries, at his
beautiful residence near Gatehouse of Fleet, about ten miles to the
westward of the Dee. The inference, therefore, is, either that the
melodious stranger has ceased to visit this country, or that his visits
are extremely rare. Of birds either frequently or occasionally
seen, we may note the heron, the cormorant, the curlew, the lap-
wing, the dorhawk, the corncrake, the tern, the white owl, the
golden plover, the water hen, the stock dove, the fieldfare, the star-
ling, the golden-crested wren, the corn-bunting, the snow-bunting,
the speckled diver, the long-tailed titmouse,* the little grebe,
and the bullfinch. We have all the varieties of game birds except
the ptarmigan,--red and black grouse, pheasant, snipe, partridge,
and woodcock.

<FOOTNOTE> Now called the "rose-mufflin" by naturalists, who have discovered that its habits
are totally different from those of the titmouse. It is an exquisitely beautiful little
creature, so quick and restless, that it is very difficult to get a sight of it, and, next to
the gold-crested wren, the smallest of our native birds, I have generally seen it among
birches, by the sides of streams.



