
374                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

the sea, having an opening for the mouth, and the effect of this
was, that the harbour was not quiet within.  The present south
pier is concave towards the sea, so as to make the waves run along
it from each end until they meet in the centre, when they destroy
each other and are thrown off seaward.  The west pier is nearly
at right angles with the south pier, and is covered by it, and the
former has a jetty running eastward, parallel with the south pier,
which protects the interior of the harbour from the seas which may
yet get round the end of the south pier.
   By a contract entered into between the governors of the hospital
and their feuars in 1774, the latter acknowledged that the har-
bours, quays, anchorages, shore-dues, and petty customs, and
emoluments arising therefrom, were disponed, and belonged to
the hospital as part of their estate.  Nevertheless, the governors,
for the encouragement of their feuars, and for promoting the pub-
lic good and utility of the town, agreed that the rents and profits
of these subjects should be received and applied by their feuars
for the time being, or the majority of them, for enlarging, build-
ing, repairing, and upholding the harbours, piers, shores, and
other public works within the town, in time coming, but always
under the inspection, and subject to the control of the governors
or such person or persons as they should appoint, from time to
time, for that purpose.  The piers of the south harbour were
completed in 1781, and cost L. 3256, 6s. 10d.; but even after
that expenditure, the harbour was only capable of containing about
twenty sail of small vessels.  The rock and other stuff continued
to be excavated from the interior of the harbour, in consequence
of which the accommodation to vessels was rendered greater, and
the trade and revenue increased, as will be seen from the following
account of the annual revenue, at different times, from 1772 to
1807:

<TABLE>
               Years.           Annual Revenue.
               1772,      .        L. 50  5  0
               1782,   .      .       55  5  0
               1792,       .          65  0  0
               1802,       .         122  0  0
               1807,       .         173  0  0

   At the latter period the harbour had been so much enlarged
as to be capable of containing 50 or 60 sail of vessels ; but even
this increased means of accommodation was found inadequate to
the trade of the place; and the late Mr John Rennie, engineer,
was applied to for a plan and estimate for extending the south
harbour, and for building a new north harbour; and an act of
                              3


