
112 				ORKNEY.

But it is only about a sixth part of the whole kelp of this island, that
is, made of drift sea-weed.

		     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   This island bad always been a separate parish, until lately combined
with other two, Cross and Burness, in the neigbbouring island
of Sanday, under one charge.  The clergymen having to travel a dis-
tanc-of not less than four miles by land and six by sea, it was impossible
there could be regular ministrations in the island, or any proper
pastoral superintendence established.  Indeed, as to all the benefits
of a regular ministry, the people might be said to be total
strangers; and being besides nearly all on a level amODg themselves,
no one, from his superior wealth or station in society, to command
an influence over the rest, they afforded an example of a people in
the common ranks of life, very much left to their own discretion.
There were a few things, however, to temper and modify the natural
result of such a state of things. Each district had its elder,
who was commonly a person of respectability and worth, and was
allowed a considerable weight in the settlement of disputes.  Then,
proudly elevated above these stood the bailie, the acknowledged
head of all the natives, and looked up to with no small respect;
who was appointed to the honourable distinction by the landlord,
and was generally chosen with impartiality.  The last one, who
died only two years ago, and with whom the office also expired,
was a person of great reading for one in his rank of life, and was
in tbe habit pretty regularly of reading a sermon to the people on
Sunday, and conducting a Sabbath school.  This certainly was
productive of some good, though not so much as might be suppos-
ed,-tbe authority being still wanting, which was necessary to
enforce, on the part of the people, a proper attention.  Besides
these authorities, the factor occasionally resided on the island, and
an annual visit was paid by the landlord; but their stay was too
short And irregular to have much influence in moulding the habits
and characters of the people.
   In 1829, a manse was erected on the island, under the Commissioners
for Planting New Churches in the Islands and Highlands,
and in the following year a clergyman was ordained.  The island
was then virtually erected into a separate parochial charge, though
it was not constituted such till the summer of 1833.  Great joy
was testified by the people at the settlement of a minister among
them.
   There used to be a good deal of pilfering, when a shipwreck


