
530                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

than the success which the Association experienced for several
years;-and we enjoyed the high privilege of hearing excellent
lectures in eight of the most important sciences;-but, partly
from a difficulty in procuring a succession of suitable lecturers, and
partly from a want of interest that arose among the town's-people,
the lectures, to the great disadvantage of the community, have for
some years been discontinued. There is no public reading-room.
We have a printing press; but no newspaper or other periodical
is published in Dalkeitb.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-We may safely affirm that
there are few places where the poor have been more carefully at-
tended to than in this parish.  We believe that a great amount of
poverty and distress is relieved by private benevolence ;-the
ample funds which were formerly at the disposal of the kirk-ses-
sion lightened the miseries or the burdens which must have other-
wise been felt;-and the deserving poor have always found sea-
sonable relief from the distinguished generosity of the Noble
House of Buccleueb.  A charity workhouse was established in
this town, for the benefit of the parochial po or, in the year 1750. *
The house was built by the joint contribution of heritors, kirk-
session, and inhabitants of the town.  It stood in an open space of
ground between the town and the North Esk.  Being required as
an hospital for the troops stationed in Dalkeith, during the war
with France, it was, about the year 1803, exchanged for the old
manse,-the Duke of Buccleuch having given for the benefit of
the poor a compensation sum of L. 155.  The management of
the institution was vested in a committee of thirty-six persons, re-
presenting the heritors, kirk-session, and certain classes of the
inhabitants.  It was capableof accommodating about forty inmates,
who were to be employed in useful industry.  For many years the
establishment was supported by voluntary contributions,-a por-
tion of the funds of the kirk-session,-and the proceeds of the la-
bour of the inmates.  The kirk-session expended the rest of their
funds upon the poor of the parish, who were kept on a separate
roll.  The comfort of the poor was, upon the whole, well attended
to, and the establishment was productive of much good;-but, in
course of tinie, as the demand for the labour of the inmates fail-
ed, and the voluntary offerings were but partially furnished, the
supplies fell short of the expenditure, and an assessment was re-
sorted to in 1813, as the best means of proportioning the amount

<FOOTNOTE>Records of Kirk-Session, A. D. 1750.



