
                         KINROSS.                         11

1770. A register of burying-ground; and a register of deaths
from 1733 to 1735. Loose minutes beginning the 4th of July 1754,
and ending 6th March 1771. From 1772 the session records are
complete; and now every minute is subscribed by the moderator.
From the Session records, it appears to have been the practice
more than a century ago, of a part of the kirk-session visiting the
town during the time of public worship, and making a report to
their brethren.
  Antiquities, &c.-In the month of June 1820, a number of sil-
ver coins were discovered on the lands of Coldon, to the south
of Kinross, having been turned up by workmen in one of the
fields. When found, they were quite covered with a black coat-
ing darker than the earth from which they were dug. The num-
ber might amount from 300 to 400, and were found to consist
chiefly of the coinage of Edward the First and Edward the Second
of England. They were of the denomination commonly called
silver pennies, and seem to have come from various mints, e. q.
London, Canterbury, York, Durham, Lincoln, and Dublin. Some
of them, instead of having the place of coinage, had on the reverse
the name Robert de Hadeleir surrounding the x. Along with these
English coins, a few Scotch were found of Alexander III. and John
Baliol. They very much resembled the English in size and ap-
pearance. If they differed in anything, it was that they were
rather more handsome:-the King's head was a profile with a
crown and sceptre surrounded by Alexander Dei Gra. and Joannes
Dei Gra. The reverse had a x with four stars, surrounded
by Rex Scotorum. When and how these coins came to be depo-
sited in the place where they were discovered, is a matter of con-
jecture. Most probably, they had been lost by some person at-
tached to one of the English armies, who, in the period of the so-
vereigns referred to, and thereafter, so frequently occupied the
country in the vicinity of Kinross, for the purpose of getting pos-
session of the Castle of Lochleven, or of overawing that fortress,
then a place of considerable strength and importance.
  In the month of April 1829, some labourers employed by John
W. Williamson, Esq. Banker, Kinross, in examining his grounds at
West Green, found, about two feet below the surface, imbedded in
what appeared to be travelled earth, an ancient seal of pure gold, of
a circular shape, eight-tenths of an inch in diameter, and two-tenths
of an inch in thickness. It has two small wings also of gold joined in
the centre by a neat hinge, which folds flat on the upper side of the
seal, and when raised serves for a handle. This very curious piece of


