
500                           PERTHSHIRE.

of Argyle near Dunnoter, and taken possession of Aberdeen; and
in return, Cromwell burnt down his house of Inchbrakie, which, in
those days, was a stronghold surrounded bv a moat, and defend-
ed at the entrance by a drawbridge.  There are still some traces
of this ancient fortification.
  Another branch of the faimly, a grandson of Colonel Graeme,
who is commonly known by the name of Father Graeme, and who
is represented as having at first been an officer in the army of
James II., afterwards became a monk of the Mendicant Order of
Capuchins, at Boulogne, in France.  This chanfe of profession
is mentioned by Smollet, in his "Travels through France and
ltaly," as having been caused by a desire to atone, by voluntary pe-
nance, for the sin of having killed his friend in a duel; and the
current tradition bears a similar testimony.  But be this as it may,
there can bd little doubt that this monastic lived for a long course
of years at Boulogne; that he conformed to all the austerities of
his order with the most rigorous exactness; that he arose to emi-
nence  in the institution; and that he died, at a very advanced
age, Superior of the Convent.  There is a portrait of him at Aber-
cairney  Abbey, in his Copuchin dress; and another at Inchbrakie,
together with a family-tree which he had drawn, exhibiting his
pedigree for several generations.
  Mallet, the poet, and Dow, the historian of Hindostan, are gene-
nerally believed to have been educated at the school of Crieff. The
late Dr William Wright, a physician and naturalist, and Dr Thomas
Thomson, the present distinguished Professor of Chemistry in the
University of Glasgow, were natives of this parish.  And General Sir
David Baird, Bart. G. C. B. and K. C. passed the later years of his
life and ended his days in the neighbourhood.  There is a marble
tablet attached to the western gable of the church on the outside,
setting forth the important service whhch this illustrious individual
rendered to the parish when that edifice was repaired, The re-
membrance of his worth and generosity and public. spirit is still
cherished with enthusiasm.  And there is nothing in the memory
of the present generation, that called forth anything like the gene-

ral emotion which was produced by his death.
  Chief Land-owners.-The following is a list of the heritors in
the parish, quoad civilia, arranged according to their valued rents.

<TABLE>

James Moray. Esq. of Abereairney, value rent,                 L. 887  13   0
Lady Beird Preston, of Ferntower,                                764  15   5
The Right Honourable Lord and Lady Willoughby de Eresby,         474  15  10
James M. Patton, Esq. of Glenalmond,                             470  12   8
Sir William Keith Murray, Bart. of Ochtertyre,                   421   6   7


