
        106                 INVERNESS-SHIRE.

        Mackintosh of Holm; Mackintosh of Killachy; Macbean of To-
        matin; Mackintosh of Aberarder; Earl of Moray; Mackintosh of
        Dalmigavie; Mackintosh of Balnespuk; Macqueen of Corry-
        brough; the Earl of Cawdor; and Mackintosh of Raigmore.  Of
        these not one resides in the parish, except Mr Macbean of To-
        matin, who spends part of the summer months in it.  This is a
        great disadvantage to the district, as non-resident proprietors are
        the bane of any country.  Till of late the number of gentlemen
        farmers made up the loss; but of thesd, there is not one now to
        whom the country people can refer, so that the clergyman is oblig-
        ed to take on himself the duty of a Justice of Peace.
           Parochial Registers.-As mentioned already, the old parochial
        registers were destroyed by fire.  There is now, however, one of
        births kept.  The other business which comes before a session is
        generally of such a nature, that the recording of it could be of no
        use.
           Mansion Houses.-Only two or three of the proprietors have
        residences in the parish; the principal of these is Moy Hall, situ-
        ated at the north end of Loch Moy.  It is a modern house, con-
        sisting of a middle square with two wings, and is in every respect
        a commodious residences.  It is now inhabited by the Dowager
        Lady Mackintosh, the proprietor himself living at Daviot.  The
        other residences are plain, though generally comfortable buildings.

                              III.-POPULATION.
           The earliest census of the parish is that of Dr Webster in
        1755, at which time the population amounted to 1693.  At the
        time of the last Statistical Account, the number was 1813.  In
        1821, however, it had decreased to 1334; and in 1831, when
        the last Government census was taken, there were only 1098, viz.
        427 males, and 471 females.  This decrease must be wholly attri-
        buted to emigration.  The proprietors in many places have turn-
        ed away the whole body of their tenantry, and let their lands out
        in large sheep farms.  This system is a most injurious one to the
        country; for in the event of a war, Britain is deprived of a set of
        the best soldiers in existence.  Besides, there is no doubt that land
        well subdivided returns a better rent than large farms; and it is
        reasonable to suppose that three or four tenants could raise more
        on the same piece of land than one could do.
           There are no towns or villages in the parish, and hence the peo-
        ple are thinly scattered over the whole district.  The average of
        births for the last seven years is about 20, of marriages 7, and of


