
                             FYVIE.                               337

winter.  Men engaging only for the harvest obtain from L.2 to
L.2, 10s. besides victuals; women engaging in the same manner,
L.1, 15s.  A good deal of field-work is also performed by women
in the hay and turnip seasons, for which they receive about 9d. per
day, with victuals.
   The thirlage system in respect of the manufacture of grain is
now done away, and while the expense of milling is still paid by a
certain proportion of meal for every boll of grain manufactured it
may be thus stated in a money charge, for drying and grinding per
boll, 6d.; grinding alone per boll, 4d.
   The following are the prices of the ordinary implements of
agriculture: A one-horse box cart and wheels, with iron axle,
is bought for, from L.7 to L.10; a cart and plough harness per
set, from L.3 to L.5; an iron plough, from L.3 to L.4, 4s.; a
wood plough, from L.2, 15s. to L 3, 15s.; harrows mounted per
pair, about L.1, 15s. of best material and construction; but the price
of this last article varies,much.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town, &c.-This parish is altogether rural.  There is
no village or market-town within it, nor manufacturing establish-
ment of any kind.  The nearest market-towns are Old Meldrum
and Turriff, the former distant from, the parish church seven and
a-half miles, the latter nine miles.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office about a quar-
ter of a mile from the church, and we have the advantage of a
daily post.  A stage-coach also runs daily betwe Aberdeen And
Banff.  The only turnpike road at present within the parish is
that portion of the Aberdeen and Banff turnpike which intesects
it.  A new line, however, is in course of being formed, leading
from the parish of Forgue to the bough of Inverury, and which is
to cut through the western district of this parish.  Another new
line is projected, to lead from Aberdeen to Banff by Methlich,
the village of Cuminestown, &c. which will run along the north-
east boundary of this parish for a short distance, and tend much
to facilitate conmaunicatation in that quarter.
   In the neighbourhood of the parish church the cottages are
very neat; most of them have a small garden attached, and all the
necessaries of moderate comfort; and throughout the parish the
buildings are equal to those of most rural districts of this country,
and an improvement is going forward.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The great majority of the people of this
   ABERDEEN.                                Y


