
                                   WEEM.                           703

       ed, east and west, by the parish of Kenmore.  It now belongs to
       the Marquis of Breadalbane, but once belonged to the family of
       Menzies; as it appears, from the history of that family, that in
       the fourteenth century, Sir Robert de Maynoers or Meyners got
       "from David de Strathbolgy, Earl of AtLole, and Constable of
       Scotland, the lands of the Thanage of Cranach in Desewer* in
       vice de Perth;" and this, with other similar facts, may furnish an
       explanation of the disjoined state and great distance of several
       parts of this parish.
         Glenlyon.--A continuous district of this glen, of some miles in
       extent, under the general name of the Roros, is in the parish of
       Weem, besides some other extensive farms, which are detached,
       and somewhat distant from this larger part.  The whole is inter-
       sected and bounded by parts of the parish of Fortingal.
         Newhall.--Newhall and Sticks, on the south side of the river
       Tay, and between the villages of Kenmore and Aberfeldy, may be
       said to be all included in the grounds of Taymouth Castle.  There
       is, however, a considerable population here, consisting wholly of the
       work people employed by the proprietor.   These parts are inter-
       selected and bounded by the parishes of Dull and Kenmore.
         Comrie.--The ancient barony of Comrie, hitherto consisting of
       several small farms and holdings, and lying on the south side of the
       river Lyon, near the point at which it falls into the Tay, is now
       becoming the chief agricultural farm of the proprietor, the Mar-
       quis of Breadalbane.  The ruins of the old family castle stand on
       the banks of the river, in a state of Considerable preservation.
       This part is bounded by the parishes of Kenmore and Fortin-
       gall.
         Glenquaich.--There is a district of considerable extent and po-
       pulation belonging to the parish of Weem, on both sides of the
       river in this glen, through which the read from Kenmore to Crieff
       the market-town of all that district, passes.   Here are supposed
       to be some of the highest cultivated lands in Perthshire, which
       produce little else than straw in very late seasons, but which are
       not deficient in early harvests, either in quantity or quality of
       grain.  This glen is always bleak, and often exceedingly stormy
       in winter, and almost all ingress and egress is sometimes cut off by
       snow; but at other seasons, it presents to the lover of pure natu-

       <FOOTNOTE>In Gaelic, Deisearaoh or Dels-threach, is a common name for the north tide
       of Lochtay, and is sometimes applied to any place with a southern exposure.


