
                          TIBBERMORE.                       1033

ber of years, dormant, during which the population fell from 1634,
which was its amount in 1821, to 1223, its amount in 1831.
    Character and Habits of the People.-The employments of the
people are very various, and their characters are in no small de-
gree influenced by their respective avocations. They may be di-
vided into three great classes,-agriculturists, bleachers, and
printers.  With the exception of about twenty farmers, the agri-
cultural population consists of ploughmen and cottars.  There is
some reason to fear that these last named classes are neither so
intelligent nor so moral as they were fifty years ago.  The bothy
system and the practice of our great landed proprietors accumu-
lating on their estates great quantities of game, are daily producing
havoc on the morals of our agricultural population.  Migratory
habits also operate most perniciously upon their general character
Most of them change their master and also their parish every year,
so that it is scarcely possible to bring any of the usual means of
religious instruction to bear with effect upon them.
    The bleachers are perhaps the most moral and religious portion of
our population. Many of them live and die in the place where they
were born.  A strong attachment exists betwixt them and their
respected employer, who maintains an affectionate but very firm
discipline among them.  Their temperate habits, their constant
employment, and their regularly paid, though by no means high
wages, enable them to maintain their families in comparative coin-
fort, and to give their children a respectable education ; and the
result of this is, that fewer cases of scandal and fewer instances of
abject poverty are to be found among them than in any other class
in the parish. The character and habits of our calico-printer
are, I believe, very similar to those in other parish where they
are to be found.
                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and.  Rural Economy.-The parish contains about
4670 Scots acres.  The whole is arable, and in a high stateof
cultivation, with the exception of about 200 acres, which are un-
 der wood, and about 150 acres covered with heath and peat-moss.
Rent of Land.-In the neighbourhood of Perth, there is some
land let as high as L.5, 10s. per acre, while there is some in the
parish as low as L. 1.   There are several farms let on a grain rent
which, of course, varies every year. On an average, the rent of
the parish may be said to be from L.3 to L.1, 10s. per Scots
acre. The valued rent of the whole parish is L.4921 Scotch


