
156			    WIGTONSHIRE.

in any weather, and effect a safe passage, and there is a peculiarity
in the currents of the channel, which, in connexion with the prevail-
ing winds, contributes to the facility of the passage.
	Notwithstanding all the disadvantages resulting from the un-
finished state of the harbour, and the limited power of the ves-
sels employed, the regularity and expedition with which the mails
have been conveyed to and from Ireland at this station is remark-
able. It appears from the report of Mr Napier of Glasgow, that
steamers of 80 horse power could be built capable of entering the
harbour of Portpatrick in its present state, whereas those ate pre-
sent used, have only 50 horse power.
	Notwithstanding much that has been said through ignorance,
it is not to be believed that any enlightened and patriotic man,
who shall rightly estimate not only the commercial but all of the
many other advantages of by far the shortest sea passage between
Scotland and Ireland, will blame the expense that has already been
incurred, or even grudge more if necessary, to render this passage
as secure and easy in all sailing weather as a good harbour on both
sides of the channel, with steamers of the highest available power,
could make it.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church being in the town,
which contains more than half of the population of the whole pa-
rish, could not be more conveniently situated, although it is nearly
five miles from the extremities of the parish. It was built in 1628
and 1629. It is at present in indifferent repair; but it has been
resolved by the heritors to erect a new one, of sufficient size to ac-
commodate the parish. The present building, which is in the
form of a cross, with a round tower as a belfry, contains 300 sit-
tings, none of which are free except those on a form placed in the
middle passage. The manse was built probably more than sixty
years ago. It recieved an addition of two rooms in 1824, and
was thoroughly and comfortably repaired in the beginning of this
year (1838) for the reception of the present incumbent. At the
same time the garden was enclosed with an excellent six feet wall.
The glebe consists of 12 acres of arable land close to the town on
the south, and worth about L. 30 per annum. The stipend of the
minister in 1755 was L. 55, 5s. 10d., and in 1798 L. 130, 12s. 3d.
Some years ago a part of the stipend previously paid to the minister
of Portpatrick was sued for by the minister of Inch as belonging to
him, and recovered by him. The amount at present paid by the
heritors to the minister of Portpatrick is L. 88, 5d., of which


