			AVONDALE.                              	      307

	In both town and parish the inhabitants are hospitable,kind,and
obliging. They are also cleanly, sober, and industrious.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--It has already been stated that the parish contains
32,000 acres: of these rather more than the half have been cul-
tivated; and about 2000 are in undivided common.
	Within the last thirty years the rental of the parish has been
doubled. Vast quantities of moss and marsh have been reclaim-
ed, and are now yielding most abundant crops. The Strath-
aven moss, consisting of about 200 acres, and which, little more
than half a century ago, was perfectly worthless, is now drained
and improved, and is perhaps more productive, than any land
in the parish. Some of it is let as high as L. 4 an acre. Through-
out the whole parish, the farmers are actively and extensive-
ly engaged in fur draining their lands. They in general open
a drain in every furrow, which they fill up to a certain depth with
stones; and as there is plenty of whinstone in every district of the
parish, this process may be carried on to any extent, and to very
great advantage. The rental of the parish might be increased to
a very great amount.
	This is a pastoral district, and the dairy produce is what the
farmers chiefly depend upon for the payment of their rents. The
Dunlop cheese is made here as good as in any part of Scot-
land. In many parts of the parish little more land is cultivated
than seems necessary for the support of the cattle. The lands, from
one end of the parish to the other, are very favourable for pasture.
There are, however, excellent crops of oats raised everywhere,--
bear or big, barley, and on some farms to the east of Strathaven,
excellent wheat. Great quantities of potatoes are also planted,
which are chiefly disposed of to the farmers in the low country for
seed. Though the soil be peculiarly adapted for turnips, yet they
are not extensively cultivated; and in a district where so many
cattle are reared, and so much food required, it seems not a little
strange that this should be the case.
	Rent of Land.--In the lower parts of the parish, and in the vici-
nity of the town of Strathaven, the lands are well cultivated, and very
productive. Some of them sold during the war as high as L.140 an acre
for cultivation. Even now, L. 100 and L. 105 an acre can be ob-
tained for land in the immediate neighbourhood of the town. There,
the annual rent of land is about L. 4 an acre; at a distance from,
the town, the rent falls much lower.


