
728                          FIFESHIRE.

  king's height ; while the more modern name of.Torryburn may
be traced to the circumstance of the parish church being situated
by the side of the burn of Torrie.
  Situation and Extent.-The parish, as now constituted, forms
the extreme south-west corner of the county of Fife. It is bound-
ed on the west, by the parish of Culross, in the county of Perth;
on the north, by the parish of Carnock ; on the east, by the
parishes of Carnock and Dunfermline; and on the south and
south-west, by the Frith of Forth, which separates it from the
parishes of Carriden and Bo'ness, in the county of Linlith-
gow. It is about five miles in lenath, and from one to two in
breadth, comprising an area of five or six square miles. The
surface is beautifully varied. The higher grounds command se-
veral fine views of the frith and its opposite shore; and, in the
distance, the castle and part of the city of Edinburgh are seen.
  Hydrography.- Besides the burn of Torrie, there are two small
streams, by which the parish is partially bounded, at its eastern and
western extremities. A small loch, which at one time existed on the
lands of Oakley, is now drained. There are several chalybeate
springs in the parish. The tide, at low water, recedes to a consi-
derable distance from the shore. By care and industry not a little
land might have been gained from the frith.
  Geology, &c.-Under this head the following facts have been
Commnicated by Mr Cadell, tacksman of the Torrie colliery:
The whole of the parish stands upon the coal measures, forming
part of the basin which stretches across Scotland from south-west
to north-east. Although the strata are very irregular, being in
many places thrown up by the trap and dislocated by slips; yet
in no part of the parish are any of the inferior beds of carbonife-
rous limestone, or old red sandstone, visible; nor does it appear
that any of the superior beds of magnesian limestone,' or new red
sandstone take on. In the south-west part of the parish, at the
shore, the strata crop out to the east at an angle of about 45/d,
being apparently thrown into this angular position by the trap-hill
on which Torrie House is built. About 400 yards east of the
burn, which bounds the parish on the west, the strata dip to the
south-east at about one in five. This rise increases opposite to
the village of Torryburn, when the strata again dip into the east.
  The proprietor of Torrie, has this year (1839) been at consi-
derable expense in proving the coal-field along the shore; and,
from several. borings, the basin between Torrie and Torryburn


