
   694                             LANARKSHIRE.

   The population of the parish of Govan exclusive of annexation, was
         in 1793,            .                       .                        2518
         in 1836,	           .                       .                        6281
   The population of the village of Govan was in 1896,	         .        2122
                                 of Partick and rural part of the parish south
                                    of the Clyd	                .             2857
   The number of families in the village of Strathbungo was in 1793,	        35
                                                            in 1836,    .       85

   In the landward part of the parhsh, the actual rental of more
than sixty proprietors is estimated at L. 50, and upwards. There
are in the village of Govan, or belonging to it, and supported by
the parish, 3 insane, 3 fatuous, 3 blind, and 1 deaf and dumb
persons.
   There is nothing very peculiar in the general tharacter of the
people. In the village of Govan, * there are 340 band-loom weav-
ers.  It has long been remarked of these men by their employ-
ers, that in regard to their external appearance, and good conduct
as workmen, they would not suffer from a comparison with per-
sons of the same class in any part of the country.  The present
generation, it is to be hoped, will not forfeit the good name they
have inherited. For many years, it is too well known, the hand-
loom weaver has received for his labour very inadequate remune-
ration.  His mind has been depressed by this.  While the smith,
the carpenter, the shoemaker, the mason, and the power-loom
weaver, have been earning from 14s. to 25s. a week, the unfortu-
nate hand-loom weaver has often been obliged to content himself
with earnings ranging from 5s. to 8s.  Wiser heads than his can-
not comprehend how, in a wqll regulated commonwealth, suth an
unequal state of things should be found to exist.  When a stag-
nation of trade takes place, the effect is immediately felt by the
hand-loom weaver, whose small earnings are still farther rdduced,
while the cotton-spinner, who is engaged in a branth of the same
manufacture, continues to be paid according to a rate, little if any
thing below the usual scale of prices.  If this be the result of the
establishment of trades' unions, and if, on account of the poverty
of the hand-loom weaver, or from some other cause, the formation
of a trades' union in his case has been found to be impracticable,
it is not surprising that he should wish for the interference of the
Legislature in his behalf, in one shape or another, that the interests
of one class in the community may not be sacrificed to those of
another.

<FOOTNOTE>A thartiat agitator, who met with no countenance in this village, lately report.
ed to his convention, that " Govan was no go."


