
370			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

and opening of the "Satterdaies Slop" in the cruives near Kirk-
cudbright where the Ken, after its junction with the Dee, falls
into the sea. The lakes or lochs in the parish contain excellent
trout, and are much resorted to by fishers. Those of Troston,
Knocksting, Reglatind, Ardoch, and Knockman, are small, but
that of Lochinvar is of considerable extent, scarce less than three
miles in circuit, and containing an area of 50 acres.
	Geology.--Hard granite or whinstone rock abounds through-
out the parish; which is rarely wrought, from the requisite quan-
tity of stone being found in loose and detached blocks on the sur-
face of the moor or heath land, and commonly called heathens.
In the Hill of Barlae, near the public road, between St John's
of Dalry and Bridge of Ken, a slate-quarry, producing blue slate
of durable quality, and large dimensions, has been wrought for
some years.
	Zoology.--Most of the common descriptions of small birds are to
be found. Red grouse, blackcock and grey- hen, partridges, snipes,
pheasants, and hares are in considerable numbers.

			 II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities, &c.--In Lochinvar are to be seen the remains of an
old building with bridges, said to have been a castle belonging to
the Gordons, anciently knights of Lochinvar, and now Viscount
of Kenmure and Lord of Lochinvar by restoration in 1824 to the
titles forfeited in 1716. Not much above a mile from this loch,
there is a large pile of stones covered with a whitish moss, from
which it has probably got the name of the White Cairn. At a
short distance from this, is another of smaller size, which is
supposed to be a monument or trophy of an heroic achievement
performed by the first Knight of Lochinvar, who on that very
spot had the good fortune to kill a wild boar which infested that
part of the country. Near the church of Dalry, and just at the
brink of the Ken, there is one of those eminences called moats,
which is still almost entire, and appears to great advantage from
the Kells side of the river. From this moat a fine view of the
river is obtained, and of the landscapes on each side of it. There
is another moat in Lochrenny, on the border of the parish, but it is
not conspicuous, as it stands on low ground. In the churchyard,
which has been recently enclosed by a substantial stone and lime
wall, there is an aisle of the old church, now quite detached from
the new, which is the burial place of Viscount Kenmure. There
is also a square piece of ground inclosed, with a blackish wall


