
                              CARNWATH.                          79

success, till in 1787 another furnace was built, and another blowing-
engine of greater power was set agoing.  In 1788-89, a steam-
engine was erected to draw off the water from the minerals, and a
large field of coal, extending both ways along the bearing of the
strata, was thus obtained.  The work was now carried on with spirit,
the weekly produce of the furnace increased, and, occasionally,
a second furnace was set to work not only pig-iron, but great
quantities of ballast for ships, and of shot, from 4 to 18 pounders
inclusive.  Pipes of various kinds, &c. were made, In 1790-91,
an extensive forge for the manufacture of blooms wag erected; but
this had not been at work above one year, when, unhappily, a mis-
understanding arose among the partners, and a law-suit took place,
the issue of which was a dissolution of the copartnery; and, under
the authority of the Court of Session, there was a sale of the works,
lands, &c. which belonged to the Company.  John Wilson Senior, of
London, one of the former partners, became the purchaser.  During
the dispute the forge had been stopt, and only one furnace was
kept going; but after the sale in 1798, the forge was again put to
work with an addition of two hammers, and the two furnacer again
brought into full operation.  In a little time, too, a rolling-mill, on
a most extensive scale, and fitted to roll and slit all kinds and sizes
of iron, was built, and set to work; a powerful blowing engine was
erected; and the weekly produce of the furnaces, which before this
seldom exceeded twenty, was now increased to forty tons.  A lease
of Climpy coal was also at this time obtained, and a village built
there, for the accommodation of the workmen.  A chapel, connected
with the Relief, was built in the middle of that village, and
a minister ordained by the Relief presbytery; in a word, in every
department prosperity seemed to smile.  The coal and iron-stone
mines, the furnaces, the forges, the rolling-mill, the shops of smiths,
carpenters, engineers, and mill-wrights, all were crowded with
workmen.  At the census taken in 1807, there were depending on
the work for their support upwards of 2000 souls, and the monthly
payments to the various work-people were not less than L.3000.
   This seeming prosperity, however, soon, vanished; for in 1807-8
the company became embarrassed, a severe depression in the iron
trade increased this embarrassment, and made it fatal; and in 1812,
the works were stopt, and the whole population turned adrift upon
the world.  From that period, till 1821, they continued unoccupied,
the machinery, of course, rusting, and the houses falling into
ruins, when they were purchased by Mr Dixon of the Calder iron-
Works, whose son, Mr William Dixon, is now the proprietor.


