
                                TRINITY-GASK.                        341

  der is the nearest post-town.  We have, however, no regular com-
  munication with it, so that our letters sometimes reach us the very day
  of their arrival, and at others lie for five or six days.  The country
  road from east to west extends for about four miles, and from north
  to south much the same.  There are no public conveyances near
  us; none, indeed, in the parish.  The bridge of Dalreoch, in Gask
  parish, is the nearest point of the passage of the Perth and Glas-
  gow coaches, and it is fully three miles distant.  Kinkell Bridge
  is the only one in the parish.  It was built about 1793, by subscrip-
  tion, consists of four arches, and is kept is good repair.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The church stands a little to the east end of
  the parish.  If situated more to the west and south, it would have been
  more convenient for the great majority of the people.  The south
  end of the parish is worst accommodated.  The people are within
  a mile and a-half of Auchterarder, and generally attend there, ex-
  cept during the dispensation of the Lord's supper at Trinity-Gask.
  It is about four miles from the western and two from the eastern
  extremities. It was built in 1770 to contain 350.  The seats,
  however, are so crowded, that it is impossible either to sit or stand
  in them with comfort.  It has not received any considerable repairs
  since, but the heritors have now agreed to make it decent in ap-
  pearance, and somewhat more comfortable-the cold during winter
  being excessive.  The sittings are all attached to the farms; no mo-
  ney is ever paid for accommodation.  The manse was built in 1772,
  greatly enlarged in 1820, and is now one of the largest in the coun-
  try.  It is charged with twenty-one window lights.  The glebe con-
  tains 14 1/2 acres, and is rented at present for L. 26, 10Os., but is worth
  considerably more.  In addition to this, the minister has from
  8 to 10 acres of wood, self-planted with Scotch firs.  This was
  originally his peat-moss, but the seeds from the surrounding plan-
  tations having taken root, have converted it into a straggling forest,
  worth at present nearly L. 100.  Were it drained and properly
  planted, it would certainly constitute no inconsiderable addition to
  the living.  The garden and ground around the manse may amount
  to an acre.  The minister has also the privilege of bleaching at a
  well north from the manse, and of a path for his horse to the ford
  of the Earn, when travelling that way to the Presbytery.
    The stipend consists of meal, 85 bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, 1 1/3 lip-
  pies; barley, 42 bolls, 2 firlots, 2 pecks, 3 lippies; money, L. 41,
  13s. 4d. There has been no augmentation for the last forty years.                                                                ty Yle
  We have, however, reason to believe that Trinity-Gask will are


