
			PARISH OF CANONBIE.

                PRESBYTERY OF LANGHOLM, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES. *

		  THE REV. JAMES DONALDSON, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--There are two opinions with regard to
the derivation of the name of this parish. The one traces it to
the Saxon word Bie or By, signifying a habitation or station,--
making the term thus denote "the residence of the Canons;" the
other, to the Latin coenobium, which signifies a priory or monas-
tery, and is a compound of the Greek adjective xoivof, common, and
Bios, life, because the monks lived in common. The latter opi-
nion is supported by the circumstances, that a piece of land, grant-
ed in donation to this priory, and specially deisgned in a charter
confirmed by King William the Lion, in 1165,+ is to the present
day called Canonbie-holm, viz. the Priory-holm, as distinguishing it
from Bee-holm, and Knotty-holm, which are in the immediate neigh-
bourhood.
	This parish is bounded on the south-east by the Liddle, which
divides it from Cumberland; and on the north by Langholm. It
extends 9 miles length, in breadth 6, and contains 22,500 Scotch
acres, or 36 3/4 square miles.
	Topographical Appearances.--The appearance of this parish is
uneven, and diversified by a variety of ridges and flat ground, ex-
cept the land which lies along the banks of the different rivers,
which is generally level. Canonbie, therefore, may be regarded as
the low grounds of Eskdale; for the highest grounds, which rise by
degrees towards the east and north-east, cannot be called moun-
tainous, when contrasted with the general appearance of the sur-
rounding parishes of Langholm, Ewes, and Castleton. The cen-
tral part of the parish is intersected by the river Esk; and the
great post-road to the south by Carlisle passes in the same direc-
tion, through a part of the country rich and variegated with woody

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by a Probationer of the Church of Scotland.
	+ Ex dono Guido de Rossedale, assensu et consensu Rodolphi filii sui, quadra-
ginta duas acras inter Esch et Lidle, ubi Esch et Lidle conveniunt.


