
                           DUMFRIES.               	17

<TABLE=IV. INDUSTRY>

  Agriculture and Rural Economy.
Number of acres cultivated or occasionally in tillage,                          7930
		which have never been cultivated, forming lochar Moss, and
several patches besides, about                                                  1350
		capable of being cultivated with a profit, probably,            1300
		in undivided common,                    			   0
		under full grown or natural wood, (oak, ash, plane, &c.)          74
		planted, (oak, ash, larch, &c.)                                  244
Total number of acres in the parish,                                            9280

        Rent of Land.-Tbe average rent of arable land is from thirty
to forty shillings per acre; except in the immediate neighbourhood
of the town, where it is from L. 4 to L. 6. The average rent of
grazing for a cow is about L. 4. No sheep are put out to graze in
that way. The total estimated rental of the burgh and burgh
roods is L. 21,000, and that of the landward part of the parish is
L. 8810,-making the rental of the whole parish abnut L. 29,810.
        Rate of Wayes, &c.-The rate of labour, winter and summer,
for farm labourers and country artisans, is Is. 6d. per day. The
daily hire of a mason, carpenter, and other mechanical workmen
in the country, is 2s. with victuals; 2s. 6d. without. In town the
rate is from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per day. A joiner or cabinet-maker's
weekly wages average about 15s. An iron plough costs from
L. 3, to L. 3, 10s. A full mounted cart, L. 8.
        Breeds of Live Stock.-Very few sheep are bred in the parish.
The only cattle bred and reared are of the pure Galloway kind;
which, owing to the attention of late bestowed upon the breeding
of them, has very much improved. Almost as many Ayrshire as
Galloway cows are kept for milk; but none of the former are rear-
ed in the parish.
        Husbandry.-The principal part of the arable land is managed
under what is technically termed a five or six year's shift, viz. in the
first year oats; in the second, turnips or potatoes; in the third,
wheat or barley; in the fourth, generally hay; and in the fifth and
sixth, pasture. Within the last forty years, about 250 acres have
been reclaimed from Lochar Moss, which have amply repaid the
outlay, yielding abundant crops of oats, potatoes, and rye-grass
hay. Much more might be brought into cultivation if sufficient
encouragement were given by proprietors, such, for instance, as a
general drainage of the river Lochar. We may here mention that
it has been more than once proposed to carry a canal from the
Lochar Bridge Quarry to the sea, a distance of about twelve miles,
(in which there is a fall of thirty feet,) having a branch to communi-
	DUMFRIES.


