
346                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

seam of coal. This quarry has been filled up. The stone found
under the seams of coal, that is, in the western part of the parish,
is of a very inferior nature. The stone for building is therefore
brought from a considerable distance.
   Ironstone.--Several strata of ironstone are found in the coal-
measures in this parish, and in the adjacent country; and the
ironstone from these strata is wrought and smelted at the Carron
Iron-works. The ironstone of the coal-measures is arranged by
some chemists under the name of amorphous lithoidal carbonate
of iron.
   This kind of ironstone has long been smelted with coke in Staf-
fordshire, Shropshire, and other parts of England and Wales, and
at Carron, in this parish, since 1760. But the iron in other parts
of Europe is obtained by smelting other kinds of iron ore, and not
from the ironstones of the coal measures.
   The smelting of the ironstone of the coal-measures has been
only recently introduced into France, namely, about 1816, when
a blast-furnace, after the model of the English ones, was erected
at St Etienne, by a company of proprietors there, to smelt in the
English way the ironstone which is found in the coal-measures at
St Etienne. English blast-furnaces, however, were erected at
Creuzot, 12 miles south of Autun, by the brother of the great
English iron-master, John Wilkinson, about 1780; but they did
not use the ironstone of the coal-measures.
   Soil.--The soil in the east end of the parish is, for the most part,
good. It may be rated at a rent of from six to eight bushels of
wheat per acre. A belt of above a mile in breadth crosses the cen-
tre of the parish, nearly from north to south. This is of a light
sandy nature, with a subsoil of till, a most untoward association,
white sand and till. The land again improves to the westward.
   Draining of Arable Land.--The modern improved method of
draining is now, in 1837, 1838, 1839, 1840, &c. much practised
in the parish, and all the country round. The drain is made as
deep as the declivity to carry off the water, will allow. One of
these drains is made in each furrow of the ploughed field. A line
of tiles is placed at the bottom of the drain to form the channel, in
which the water runs. About 1837, a considerable tile-work for
making drain tiles was established by Mr Stirling of Glenbervie,
on the beds of clay in the low ground near the Poo. Two or three
years after, another tile-work for making drain tiles was established
near the same place by Mr Bauchop.


