
122                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

born to the heads of families now in the parish, and resident for
the last forty years, 85/100 are still alive.
   To whatever cause so small a mortality may be attributed, the
salubrity of the air, the general healthiness and sober habits of the
parents, or the skill and care with which they nurture their off-
spring, it is a fact not a little remarkable in the history of human
life. Large families, indeed, frequently reach mature age without a
single breach, and sometimes with scarcely the experience of any
acute disease; and instances of longevity, it is believed, are much
more numerous than in most parishes of similar extent.
   Of the whole population 1-9th are above sixty years of age, 1-18th
above seventy. Many are considerably beyond eighty. Several have
reached their ninetieth year, and although only one female is
older (in her nitiety-tbird,) a few years ago there were several living
nearly a century old, and one female died in her hundred and third,
who a twelvemonth before had displayed such strength of consti-
tution, and such tenacity of life, as to have recovered entirely from
a severe dysentery of several weeks duration.
   Regarding one venerable lady, whose age extended to within a
little of a century, it is worthy of record, that, as each Sabbath re-
turned, she regularly committed to memory, as in the days of her
youth, a portion of scripture, with some psalm or hymn, or spiri-
tual song, to supply her wakeful nights, or when she was alone, as
she used to say, with materials of reflection and devotion.
   The great bulk of the population now are engaged in agricul--
tural pursuits, and the tradesmen are of such crafts as are need-
ful to supply the wants of a rural district. There is neither a
baker nor butcher in the parish, but the contiguous towns compen-
sate that deficiency.
   Character of the People, &c.--In their general deportment, they
are well conducted, sensible, and judicious in the management of
their affairs, not distinguished, perhaps, for enterprise or energy,
but steady and industrious, exceedingly neighbourly and kind, and
although with some exceptions, compared with other parishes,
exemplary in their attendance on religious ordinances.
   Very much as one family the parishioners dwell together, and in
the interchange of kind offices there but seldom occurs any inter-
ruption. Insurmountable difficulties are in the way of ascertaining
intimately the amount of religious principle actuating any commu-
nity. It has been remarked they do generally attend public wor-


