
1108			ABERDEENSHIRE.

crist, Earl of Mar, gave to the church of St Mary of Monymusk,
and the Culdees there, the church of Leochel, with all its tithes
and offerings, together with the half-davach of land in which the
church is situated. The date is fixed by the terms of the gift,
which is said to be for the safety and prosperity of his Lord King
William and those dear to him. Now William the Lion came
to the crown, Dec. 9, 1165, and Gilcrist, the donor, died about
1170. This gift of Gilcrist was twice confirmed by John, Bishop
of Aberdeen, from 1200 to 1207; it was renewed by Duncan,
Earl of Mar, son of Morgrund, and as it seems, grandson of Gil-
crist, in the reign of Alexander II. about 1234, and this king
confirmed it by a royal charter; Colin Durward, the Lord of Oneill,
in that century, granted to the same Culdees of Monymusk, the
said half-davach of land in which the church of Loychell was situ-
ated, with all its pertinents and privileges, and among others the
common pasturage of 15 cows and 100 sheep, with their follow-
ing of two years old, and of 4 horses; and this was confirmed by
Anna, daughter and heiress of the said Colin, and her husband,
Philip de Monte Scicheter. In a rental of the priory of Mony-
musk, in 1260, the value of the church of Loychell is stated at
15 chalders and 12 bolls meal, and of the land of Loychell at 2 1/2
merks.*
    Corse.-The lands of Corse formed part of the barony of Coul
and Onele, which in the thirteenth century belonged to the family
of Durward. In 1389, this barony was resigned by Isabella,
Countess of Fife, daughter of Duncan, Earl of Fife, and bestow-
ed by Robert II., on his son, Robert, Earl of Fife, and Menteith
better known as Duke of Albany. On the downfal of the house
of Albany, after the restoration of James L, and the forfeiture of
their possessions, this barony appears to have remained attached
to the crown till 1476, when James III. bestowed it on his ar-
mour-bearer, Patrick Forbes, third son of James, second Lord
Forbes, who, in 1482, had a charter under the great seal of the
"barony of Oneil, viz. the lands of Coule, Kincragy and le Corss."
In 1510, his son and successor, David Forbes, had a charter of
the lands of Onele-cross, Kincragy, le Mureton, with the mill and
alehouse thereof, (the lands of Coule being now disjoined there-
from,) and uniting and incorporating them into a haill and free ba-
rony, to be called the barony of Onele in all time coming. David

<FOOTNOTE>* The charters relating to all these grants and confirmations are printed at length
to the chartulary of St Andrews, in the appendix to Jamieson's History of the
Culdees, 4to, Edinburgh, 1811, pp. 390-395.


