
150                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the same time, it is evident that the condition of the labouring
classes is susceptible of great improvement, and there is no doubt
that their condition would be greatly better than it is, if there were
among them a greater degree of foresight, and of care in laying up
from present income a provision for future want. There is among
the people a distressing amount of poverty, especially in the vil-
]age of Kirkliston, where some of the houses are little better than
Irish cabins; and it is extremely difficult to devise any means of
mitigating the evils which they suffer, with also multiplying
the demands for future relief.

  October 1839.

    			PARISH OF BORTHWICK.

	PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

    		THE REV. THOMAS WRIGHT, MINISTER.


     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Situation.-THIS parish lies about twelve miles south from Edin-
burgh, near the foot of the Lammermuir-hills,-and at that part
where the pastoral vale of the. Gala commences its long course of
twenty miles, from Fala-hill on the north, to Galashiels on the,
south.
  Borthwick, thus lying along the northern boundary of the Lam-
mermuirs, is at the commencement of that fertile and extensive tract
of comparatively level country which stretches over the whole of the
Lothians. Any district so situated has a tendency to throw itself
into elevations less commanding than those of the mountain range
in its neighbourhood,-and not unfrequently, as in the case of this
particular locality, to assume the aspect of a tempestuous sea, be-
ginning to subside, but still rolling its mountain billows. Being
also of different materials from those employed in the formation of
the mountainous districts, it shows this difference of material both
in the peculiar shape of its rising grounds, and in the scope and
outline of the intervening valleys,-peculiarities which at once
mark the different nature of the materials employed and the more
recent epoch at which the formation has taken place.  The val-
leys of such districts are commonly traversed by streams of greater


