
                          RATHEN.                            295

resident heritor: it is surrounded with very thriving plantations of
different kinds of wood, and ornamented with ponds of water.
   The estate of Memsy was sold by the late Colonel Fraser to
Lord Saltoun, which estate is said to have been the property of
Colonel Fraser's ancestors for upwards of three centuries.  The
mansion house of Memsey is occupied at present by Mrs Leslie,
widow of Charles Leslie, Esq. M.D. who died in 1839.  Auchiries
belongs to Mr Chalmers Hunter of Tillery.  Colonel Fraser of
Inverallochy built a cottage lately with suitable offices on his es-
tate of Inverallochy, favourable for sea-bathing, no doubt, for the
occasional residence of his family; his principal residence is at Castle
Fraser, a property belonging to the Colonel, situated in the parish
of Cluny, in this county.
   Heritors.-The parish is divided among the following proprie-
tors: Right Honourable Lord Saltoun, the patron; John Gordon,
Esq. of Cairnbulg; Colonel Fraser of Inverallochy; William C.
Hunter, Esq. of Auchiries; Thomas Gordon, Esq. of Cairness;
John Lumsden Sherifs, Esq. of Rathen; William J. Anderson,
Esq. of Mains and Mill of Forrest; and William Shand, Esq. of
Craigellie.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
                  The population in 1801, was 1588
                                    1811,     1734
                                    1821,     1924
                                    1831,     9100

The fishing villages of Inverallochy and Cairnbulg contain a population of nearly 1000
Number of families in 1831,	.	.	.	.	.	.	.        439
		   chiefly employed in agriculture,	.	.	.	.        170
				       trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 	.   38
Number of illegitimate births during the last three years,	.	.	.   17

				IV.-INDUSTRY.

<TABLE>
Number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish, which are either cul-
  tivated or occasionally in tillage, about	.	.	.	.	  4800
Number of acres which never have been cultivated, and which remain constantly
  waste, or in pasture, about	.	.	.	.	.	.         1400
Number of acres in a state of undivided common,		.	.	.	     0
Number of acres under wood, whether natural or planted,		.	.	   112
  It is supposed that a few acres might be profitably to the land in cultivation.

   Several substantial farm-houses have been lately built in the
parish, some of them covered with slate and others with tiles.  On
the farms of considerable extent, thrashing-machines have been
erected; which are considered a much more effectual method of se-
parating the grain from the straw than the old mode, and a great
saving of labour to the farm-servants.  Agriculture is conducted, as
in the neighbouring parishes, by a regular rotation of crops of sown
grass and grain, the fields being previously prepared by fallow,


