
				KINNOULL.                        933

social condition of the farmer, as compared with what it was thirty
or forty years ago, is unquestionably both elevated and improved.
   It would be extremely gratifying to be able to record an im-
provement in the moral and religious character of the population,
commensurate with that which has taken place in their external
circumstances and mode of living. But it must be admitted that
in this respect there has been a very evident and decided falling
off; that the strictness of religious principle has been relaxed;
and the general tone of morality greatly lowered. The chief
cause of this unfortunate ddterioration is undoubtedly to be found
in the great influx into the parish, from Dundee and other large
towns, of immoral and dissolute characters of both sexes, who ob-
tain employment in the numerous spinning-mills in the neigbbour-
hood; and it is not difficult to foresee that the contagious effect of
this moral pestilence must inevitably be felt throughout the com-
munity. Great exertions are at present making, however, by the
gratuitous instruction of the children of the working classes in
Sabbath schools and otherwise, to counteract this evil influence,
and to promote the growth of practical religion and morality
throughout the parish; and it is to be hoped that the means em-
ployed for this object may, through the blessing of God, be at-
tended with the desired effect, and lay the foundation of a gradual
and thorough reformation.

January 1843.

               		PARISH OF KINNOULL.

           PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

		  THE REV. JOHN EDWARD TOUCH, MINISTER.

 	I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Extent, &c--This parish is of a very irregular form, being in-
tersected in different directions by those adjoining. It  incldues
the village of Balbeggie on its northern extremity, betwixt and
which the parishes of Scone and St Martins intervene, while the
village of Inchyra, lying on its eastdrn extremity has the parish
of Kinfauns interjacent. Its greatest length may be stated at 12
miles, its greatest breadth 4. The central part of the parish, con-


