
   942                   FIFESHIRE.

   From thesea the ground rises abruptly to a considerable height,
   so that at the distance of a hundred yards from high water mark,
   there isscarcely a point where it does not reach the height of 60
   feet. Thence it gradually swells in a westerly direction, without
   hill or steep, towards Airdrie, (Ard-rhi, the King's Height,) and
   Drumrack. In this direction, when the sun goes westerly, and
   the atmosphere is favourable, the view at some points is beautiful
   and extensive. From Airdrie or Drumrack, and especially from
   the ancient tower of the former, one may, with a very slight turn
   of his eye, survey the whole Lothian coast from Leith to St Abb's
   Head, alone, with the islands of the Forth,-Inchkeith, the Bass,
   the May, &c., together with the multitude of vessels that float
   upon the Forth, and the number of towns and villages situated
   upon its banks on either side, till at last his attention is arrest-
   ed by the Bell Rock Lighthouse, erected to warn the mariner
   of danger, and at night to guide him onward in his pathless
   track. In ascending from the sbore to the highest part of the
   parish, the agriculturist never fails to be struck with the variety
   of soil he has to pass over, proceeding from the richest black
   loam to thin wet clay; the former, in the neighbourhood of the
   town, drawing a yearly rent of L.6 and L.7 the Scotch acre,-
   the latter let on improving leases for a mere trifle.
      Island and Rocks.-The Isle of May, which, in 1743, was
   claimed by the magistrates and minister of West Anstruther, as a
   portion of their parish, has defacto, if not dejure, been connected
   with Crail since the Reformation at least. It lies about six miles
   southeast from the harbour of Crail, and is about a mile in length
   by about three-quarters of a mile in breadth. Its sbores are ge-
   nerally cliffy, and at the west end rise perpendicularly to the height
   of 150 feet or upwards. Yet there are two or three places at
   which vessels can touch according to wind and tide. Although
   situated in tbe mouth of the Frith of Forth at its junction with
   the German Ocean, and consequently exposed tn heavy eastern
   storms, the island is very productive of its native plants, and seve-
   ral parks are cultivated and encloied. It supports a few cows and
   a flock of sheep, which are said to improve in flesh and fleece. A
   peculiar kind of long-wooled rabbit is also found upon it; and about
   June and July immense numbers of birds breed their young upon
   the ledges of its western precipices. It has also abundance of
   fresh water and a small lake. This island, once famous for the
   cure of barren women, belonged at one time to the monks of Read-


