


                         DUNROSSNESS.                       95

  gant, and the mansions of the keepers very neat. The expense,
  I believe, was about L. 40,000. It is visited annually by Robert
  Stevenson, Esq. civil-engineer; and a yacht tomes twice in the,
  year, with stores.
    Ecclesiastical State.-There are Some persons of the Baptist
  persuasion here, but immersion seems not to be generally attrac-
  tive : and there are also, a good number in both parishes, of
  Wesleyan Methodists.
    The stipend, by decreet of valuation, is L.200, besides a sum
  for communion elements; and the grebe is reckoned good, the
  soil being of excellent quality: it contains 13 acres of arable,
  ground, and 14 or 15 acres of meadow; but the pasture is not va-
  luable.
    Education.-This parish is much in want of proper schools for.
  the education of the rising generation, there being, besides the pa-
  rochial, only some private ones kept by young men, employed by
  the parents at their own expense, and that only for a part of the
  year,-they betaking themselves to the fishing in summer, as what
  they earn from, teaebing does not, compensate them. The paro-
  chial school is stationed in the parish of Sandwick. In Cun-
  ningsburgh, there are a school appointed by the Society for Pro-
  pagating Christian Knowledge, and a Sabbath evening school.
  There are few or none of the people who cannot read.
    Libraries.-There are two parochial libraries instituted lately,
  one in Cunningsburgh, and the other in Sandwick parish. There
  is also one in Dunrossness.
    Fuel.- No large tracks of moss are here. Had that been the case,
  peats, would not have needed to be transported from a great dis-
  tance to the southern extremity of the parish, a distance, of four
  or five miles, upon small ponies, by which great expense is incurred.

    Fair Island.-This island is about 3 miles long and 2 broad.
  It lies about midway betwixt Orkney and Shetland. On the
  northeast corner of the island, there is a small barbour; but ves-
  sels donot frequent it. There is a large peninsula called Bounness,
  which feedsa considerable flock of sheep of the south countrybreed,
  and is fenced with a high stone dike across the isthmus. The
  houses are all on the southeru part of the island. To the north
  part of the cultivated ground, there is a fence of feal, which shuts
  it in and protects it from shee. The names of the towns or ham-
  lets are, Shirva, Leogh, Bousta, Gelah, Seutter, and Taing. By


