

       1120                     PERTHSHIRE.

       in 1624, and the minutes of session in 1637.  They are comprised
       in nine volumes of different sizes, some of which contain fine spe-
       cimens of old-fashioned penmanship.  Many of the earlier entries
       (some of which have been already quoted) are extremely curious,
       either as referring to passing events of historical importance, or as
       illustrative of the rigorous discipline and exhorbitant pretensions
       of the Kirk.  One cf the most remarkable is the entry for the 9th
       of February 1651, which is as follows:  "This day, my Lord
       Ogilvy declared his repentance before the congregation, in the
       habit of sackcloth, in presens of Mr Georg Patillo, minister at
       Newtyle; and Mr Robert Crightoun, minister at Essai; and Mr
       David Patton, minister at Kettyns; who were appointed be the
       presb" and, in sackcloth, confessed his sinful accession to General
       Major Middleton's rebellion, and for hhs sinful miscarriages against
       the Covenant, and gave great evidence of his heartie grief for the
       samine, to the full satisfaction of the whole congregation." On
       the 18th of August, and 1st of September 1649, fifteen soldiers,
       who bad taken arms in what is called "thd unlawfull engagement,"
       professed their repentance, and were admitted to the renewal of
       the covenant as a necessary preliminary to their participating in
       the communion.  The page containing the entries for the Sab-
       baths immediately after the 29tb of May 1660, the day of the
       Restoration, have been torn out, whether by accident, from pru-
       dential motives, or by some rancorous Covenanter, it is now im-
       possible to conjecture.  There are instances of persons being re-
       quired to "sit the stool" for periods of more than twenty and even
       thirty Sabbatbs.  It is remarkable, that two cases of this unprofit-
       able rigour took place during the tempomry establishment of the
       Episcopal form of government after the Restoration.  In addition
       to the classes of offences which usually fall under the cognizance
       of a church court, the kirk-session seem to have been frequently
       occupied with cases of "feching and flytting," slander, &c., with
       occasional investhgations into charges of witchcraft.  The cases of
       contumacy are numerous.  In some respects, the ecclesiastical dis-
       cipline of that period appears to have been less rigorous than is
       generally supposed.  Under January 20th 1650, there is the fol-
       towing entry:  "The minister did intimate ane ordinance of the
       proob", that in time coming, when people shall burie their deid
       upon the Lord's day, they doe it timouslie; in the winter season
       believe sermon, and in the simmer time after the afternoon's ser-
       vice.  On the whole, however, if we may judge from the eccle-

      <FOOTNOTE> "October 5, Sat. last, 1675.  This day the merchants in Alight being chainged,


