
                              KENMORE.                           455

and Lochay, besides the supplies which it receives from the tribute
of innumerable streams rushing down the sides of the mountains
on both banks. From its north-east extremity, pours out the noble
Tay, which, after flowing beautifully through Strathtay, part of
Strathmore, and along the Carse of Gowrie, discharges itself into
the German Ocean some miles beyond Dundee; delivering, as is
supposed, a greater quantity of water than any other river of Bri-
tain. With the water which it is thus removing from us, it is, like
all its congeners, incessantly taking away what can be less spared.
It were interesting to inquire, (if this were the fitting opportunity)
what quantity of our best soil, the debris of the mountains and val-
leys, is borne down by this ever-active agent, to the estuary of the
Tay, and to the caverns of the deep. Say this river discharges
3000 cubic feet of water per second. It is supposed that in each
200 cubic feet of water, there is contained one cubic foot of mud.
Say but the half of that, however. That would give to the Tay,
7.5 cubic feet per second, 648,000 per day, or about 236,520,000
cubic feet of mud per annum. The water of the lake suffers, at
time, violent and uncommon agitations. An interesting descrip-
tion of one of these phenomena is given in the former Statistical
Account of the parish, (Vol. xvii. 457.)
  Next to Lochtay, is Lochfraochie in Glenquaich, a sheet of water,
about three miles in length, and one in breadth, of which but a part
is in this parish; there being portions of it connected with the parishes
of Dull and Little Dunkeld. The scenery of this lake is rather tame,
and so is the general aspect of the glen, as there is hardly any plant-
ing, and even but little natuml wood. The chief feeder of Loch-
fraochie is the Quaich, a bold mountain torrent rising in this pa-
rish. From the loch, a little above Amulree, issues the Braan,
which, after a run of about ten miles through Strathbraan, enters
the Tay, as stated before, at Dunkeld.
  Cascades.-The formation of the country naturally occasions
the existence of numerous cascades. Almost all the streams, in-
deed, which come down the mountain sides may be regarded, each
as one continued waterfall; and when swelled with heavy rain, or
the sudden melting of snow, they become peculiarly striking.
There is one, however, which is well-deserving of being particular-
ised; the fall of Acharn, or otherwise the hermitage, distant about
two miles from the village of Kenmore. Of the many travellers
passing through Kenmore, few fail to pay a visit to that remark-
able spot: nor, if they have been endowed with capacity of re-


