
                           ABERDOUR.                                 717

walks cut out on the face of the hill, from which the prospects are
rich and varied. On the west, there is a beautiful white sandy bay,
surrounded with trees. Here the grounds rise gently to the west,
bordered by thriving plantations; and stretching southward, they
terminate in a perpendicular rock washed by the sea.-By this rock
on the east, and by headlands on the south-west, the small har-
bour of Aberdour is well-sheltered from all winds.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Inchcolm.-The parish of Aberdour belonged to the monastery
of Inchcolm. This monastery was founded about the beginning
of the twelfth century by Alexander I. in consequence of a vow.
Sibbald says, that the western part of Aberdour was given by one
of the Mortimers to this monastery, for the privilege of bury-
ing in the church. There is a tradition, that the corpse of one of
the family was thrown overboard in a storm, which gives the name
of Mortimer's Deep to the channel between the island and the
shore. This western part of Aberdour, together with the lands
and barony of Beath, are said to have been acquired from an
Abbot of Inchcolm, by James, afterwards Sir James Stuart,
second son of Andrew Lord Evandale, grandfather by his
daughter to the admirable Crichton, and by his second son, Lord
Doune, to Sir James Stuart, who married the daughter of the
Regent Murray. Lord Doune was Commendator of the monas-
tery of Inchcolm at the Reformation. The whole of the above-
mentioned property, together with the island itself, is still in the
family of Moray, with the title of St Colme. The Earl of Mo-
ray attempted to cover the island with trees, which would have
increased its picturesque appearance, but the attempt did not suc-
ceed.-(Old Stat. Account.)
    Antiquities.-Not far from the village of Aberdour, on a flat on
the top of a hill, there is one of those cairns or tumuli so frequent-
ly met with in Scotland. A coffin and several earthen vessels,
containing human bones, were found in it. A small plain tomb-
stone erected on the south wall of the old church to the memory
of the Rev. Robert Blair, minister of St Andrews, in Fife, and
Chaplain to Charles I., who was ejected from his charge by
Archbishop Sharp in 1661, and died at Couston, in this parish,
1666. The inscription is in Latin, but nearly defaced.
    Parochial Registers.-These consist of minutes of kirk-session,
commencing in 1649; baptisms in 1663; disitributions to poor,
1658; collections at the kirk, 1659; marriages,  1669; deaths,


