
	                    AYR.                                59
four establishments, there is no want of the sinews of commercial
and industrial enterprise.
	Sailors' Society.--This association was instituted so far back as
the year 1581, for the benefit of decayed mariners, and their widows
and children after their death. Its records extend to the date of
its commencement, and to a person capable of decyphering the an-
tiquated style of handwriting in which they are set down, they
might afford much curious and useful information illustrative of the
manners of the times, and the local history of the burgh.  To ren-
der them intelligible, however, is fully as difficult a task as to trans-
late from a dead language. We have had the privilege of perusing
some extracts from them in modern penmanship, made by one of
the members now living, who had been at considerable pains in
penetrating into their contents. The following incident will be
deemed interesting. In the year 1647, during the prevalence of a
destructive plague or pestilence, a meeting of the members of the
society, specially convened, took place, in which, after mentioning
the names of those present, amounting to a goodly congregation it
is thus recorded: "The above-named persons, after serious invo-
cation of the name of God, publicly by the minister, they apart by
themselves in the choir of the church, (John Osborne beginning
with prayer,) ilk person of them stood up on his feet, and one after
another, made particular confession of his sins and wickedness, be-
fore the Majesty of the Great God, and in presence of the people
then assembled, and did before each of them, their confession with
prayer, entreating his Majesty to pardon their bygone offences, and
that he would, for Christ's sake, arrest this present plague of pesti-
lence, quilk every man in particular acknowledged his sins to be the
cause of." Among a long list of sins thus confessed, and minutely
recorded, we find some charging themselves with being guilty of a
strong inclination, in their travels, after the idolatrous worship of the
mass, and declaring that "the first thing that made them quat it,
was the swearing of the covenant in this land." Others are repre.
sented as being guilty of unlawful gain, by alluring and carrying off
children to the West Indies, from which it would appear that this
was a crime sometimes practised by mariners at that time. Among
other irregularities, are confessed with great contrition, swearing,
blasphemy, drunkenness, incontinence, &c. particularly when ab-
sent from home, and in foreign parts. It would be strange, at the
present day, to find members of the sailors' or any other society
acting a similar part, and putting indiually their secret sins upon
record.


