
              222             ADDITION TO THE ACCOUNT OF

                The number of acres in grass is 829 ; the number sown with
              turnip, 65; the number planted with potatoes, 96.
                The total rent of the parish may be estimated at L. 876.
                The price of raw bear, on an average of the last seven years,
              per quarter of 348 lb. imperial, is 16s. 7d.  The price of oats on
              the same average, per quarter of 184 lb. imperial, is 7s. 6d.  Each
              quarter of bear or of oats is eight bushels measure.
                Of the bear, about 170 bolls are payable in kind to the Crown.
              A quantity is disposed of to the distillers in Kirkwall, and a part
              of it in malt, to the brewers there.  The remainder is reserved for
              the use of the parishioners for seed.  There has never been much
              oatmeal sold out of the parish.
                The bear here mentioned is what is commonly called big, an
              inferior sort of barley, and the oats are of the small black or grey
              kind.  These inferior grains have been hitherto preferred, the for-
              mer on account of its ripening earlier than barley, to avoid the
              hazard of a late harvest, an the black oat, on account of its not
              being so liable to be shaken as the white kind, by those boisterous
              winds which occasionally prevail here in autumn.  But there is no
              reason to doubt that, were the land once brought into good heart
              by improved modes of farming-both barley and red oats, which
              are less liable to be shaken than the white, and at the same time
              are a stronger grain, might be successfully cultivated.
                The soil, in general throughout the parish, is of a kind that rea-
              dily admits of improvement, especially by lime, (which has never
              yet been applied to it) being, for the greater part, a light black
              loam, in some places mixed with sand, and in others having a mix-
              ture of clay.  But, whatever be the variety of the surface, the bot-
              tom is uniformly of a porous nature so that whatever quantity of
              rain may fall, it soon disappears, and of course there is no marshy
              ground, nor stagnant surface water to be seen tbroughout the parish.
                From two to three tons of turnip seed grown in the parish have,
              of late, been annually exported to Edinburgh and other places, for
              which the seedsmen have readily allowed the highest current prices,
              on account of its superior quality.  This is a new and quite un-
              looked for article of profitable produce to the Orkney farmer.
              Rye-grass seed sown in Orkney is equally prized by seedsmen.
                The excellence of the turnip seed naturally arises from the
              peculiar suitableness of the soil and climate to the cultivation of
              this roof, which, in several instances, has succeeded here, when it
              has failed in countries further south.  Here it is not subject to


