
                         KILMANY.                          533

is extensive, and at some places rises more than 400 feet above
the level of the sea. It terminates at Newton, three miles to the
east of Kilmany; the southern branch of the Ochils, which forms
this valley, lies in Logie parish, and extends towards Leuchars.
Goales den is the only fissure of any importance in the parish. It
is a beautiful and romantic spot, and I daresay would afford ample
materials for the speculations of the geologist. It is a deep cut
in Kilmany hill, looking towards the south, through which a small
rivulet flows from the higher grounds, and by which, during the
course of ages, it was probably formed. It is almost dry in sum-
mer; but in winter after storms, it sends down a considerable
quantity of water to the Motray. It was planted with great taste
by the late proprietor, Mr Thomson, and beautiful walks were
made through it; but these, since his lamented death, have been
permitted in a great degree, to go out of order.
   Hydrography.-The valley itself presents some striking features.
The lower part of it has been underwater to a considerable length
and depth. This is evident from the height of the sandy hillocks
scattered through tbe lands of East Kinnear, and from the nature
and formation of the mound, upon which the village and church of
Kilmany are built. From the elevation of these, above the bot-
tom of the valley, the water must have stood 20 feet above the
channel of the Motray. From the nature of the sand deposited,
it is probable that the east part of the valley formed an extensive
lake. The grains of it are soft and small, and do not resemble the
hard sharp sand which is found upon the sea shore. The upper
part of the valley, has also been under water, but rather as a marsh
than deep standing water. The shape of the different hillocks
and mounds shows that the lake has been gradually formed; the
sides of them rise with a gentle slop, and, generally speaking, the
tops of them are smooth. There must have been some barrier to
the east of Kinnear, which prevented the Motray bavin free ac-
cess to the ocean; but the precise place where it was cannot now
be ascertained. How it was removed, is equal] uncertain; the
height of the water, accumulated for ages, probably forced a pas-
sage for itself to the sea, and left the valley a morass, which it
continued to be for ages. It is not above fifty years since a great
part of it was drained, and converted Into excellent arable land.
There is a vague tradition that there was once a passage, boat upon
lake to Cruvie and Straiton, and in confirmation of this, it
is stated that a small and acnhor was found when the meadows were
first ploughed.


