
196                         ARGYLESHIRE.

nearest part of Mull.  Its greatest length is aout 13 miles from
north-east to south-west.  Its breadth is extremely various, the
greatest being about six miles, and its figure very irregular.  Ac-
cording to the plan I have seen, it contains about 27 square miles,
or 17,327 imperial acres.
   Topogaphical Appearances.-About the middle of the island
lies the plain called Reef, which is believed to have been at one
time covered by the sea.  It contains 1500 imperial acres, and is
nearly a complete level, with the exception of a small knoll or
eminence near its western extremity.  On the east side of Reef
there is a small inlet called the ford, or in Gaelic "foadhail." A
small sluggish rivulet, having its origin in a marsh, a mile and a-
half inland, and forming the eastern boundary of Reef, runs into
this inlet, and constitutes the two divisions of the island called the
east and west end.  Spring-tides frequently render the passage
across the ford impracticable at the usual place, and a small stone
bridge has been built half a mile farther up, for the convenience
of travellers.  The tide, when swollen and agitated by winter
storms, has sometimes, though very rarely, been known to rise so
high and run so far into the land, that the sea from the south and
from the north has nearly met, and thus almost separated the island
into two. The division on the west side of the ford, however, is
the most considerable, and contains at least two-thirds of the whole
population.
   The surface, in general, is uncommonly low and level, perhaps
not more than fifty feet above high water-mark.  Toward the west
and south-west side, however, there are two or three bills, which
are, comparatively speaking, of considerable altitude.  Of these,
the highest Is, Bein-Heinisb, which is, perhaps, from 400 to 500
feet above the level of the sea.  West from Beinn-Heinisti lies
Ceann-a-Mhara, the lowest of the hills, and not much more, as
conjecture, than half the height of the former.  It forms the west-
ern headland of the island as its nameimports, and is chiefly re-
markable for a number of hideous clefts and chasms facing the
sea, inhabited by myriads of wild fowl, chiefly of the aquatic kind,
whose screams and discordant notes, when they are disturbed in
their residence, form a most Babylonish compound, not at all
grateful to the organs of those who like the "concord of sweet
sound."  Here the craigsmen were wont of old to exercise their
boldness and dexterity in catching wild fowls, and collecting their


