
1046                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

wards of L. 100, and the pew-rents collected from the sitters in
the church, amounting to about L. 40, which were given as the
Duke of Richmond's contribution. But last year, these contribu-
tions being insufficient, it was found necessary to have recourse to
a voluntary parochial contribution, which, including L. 80 sub-
scribed by the Duke of Richmond, L. 25 by the Duchess of Gor-
don, and L. 5 by Mr Gordon of Avochy, yielded L. 190; the col-
lections at the church doors amounting besides to about L. 70.  It
is exceeding probable, however, that, in a year or two, a legal as-
sessment will be laid on the parish.
	Besides the regular paupers, there are not a few poor persons
who shrink from the idea of receiving public relief; but, in
the former class, there are many who regularly, and with much
boldness, on a fixed day every week, go their rounds to receive
their accustomed alms.
         Fairs, &c.-There are about twelve annual fairs or markets held
in Huntly, chiefly during the months of summer and autumn.
Two of these, called "feeing markets," occur at Whitsunday and
Martinmas, and are among the largest of the whole year. They
are for the hiring of farm-servants, and may be described as un-
mitigated moral nuisances,-not merely from the evils inseparably
attendant on the congregating of large numbers of thoughtless
young people of both sexes, with money in their pockets, and many
of them with loose moral principles, but also from the utter de-
struction of those moral checks and mutual kindly feelings which
ought to subsist between master and servant,-the one class being
hired generally without any regard to their character, as if they
were mere beasts of burden, and the other feeling little interest in
the welfare of those who are sure to leave them in half a year.
The other markets are for the sale of horses and cattle.
         Inns, &c.-In the town of Huntly, there is one excellent inn,
kept by a highly respectable individual, and four others of a lower
grade. Besides these, there are twelve public-houses, and two or
three grocers sell spirituous liquors. The Total Abstinence Society
has certainly been a useful auxiliary to the Gospel, in reclaiming
some drunkards, and diminishing the custom of some of these
houses.
         Fuel.-The fuel here used consists of peat or turf, brought
chiefly from a moss five miles distant, and sold at about 3s. for
a cart load; English coal, brought by sea to Portsoy, and thence
conveyed to Huntly, a distance of seventeen miles, by land car-


