

    156                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

    waters of Lacksta, Scunt, and Obbe teem with salmon and trout,
    and afford delightful sport to the angler.
       Geology.-The predominating rock in this parish is gneiss, but
    subordinate to it are many other rocks of the primitive class.  It
    is much to be regretted that hitherto no skilful geologist has fully
    examined the numerous mineralogical and geological relations of
    the rocks of Harris.
       Zoology.-Grouse, which were very plentiful on the moors, some
    years ago, have lately suffered from the depredations of the pole-
    cat and other vermin.  Large herds of deer range among the hills
    and flens.  Innumerable flocks of geese, plover, and pigeons fre-
    quent the low grounds and islands.  The eagle visits the inacces-
    sible rocks.  The natives occasionally capture with the harpoon
    the sun-fish, which loiters along the coast during the summer
    months, and slaughter with clubs a considerable number of seals
    in the island of Gaasker.  Oysters are very abundant, and several
    boats are engaged in the fishing of lobsters, which are regularly
    forwarded by smacks to the London market.  Particular attention
    has been paid to the rearing of black-cattle and sheep.  Cheviots
    have been introduced into the country, and are found to answer
    uncommonly well.
    
                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
       Land-owner.-The Earl of Dunmore is sole proprietor of the
    parish.
       Parochial Register.-It is only within the last few years that a
    parochial register of marriages and births has been regularly kept.
       Antiquities.-At Rodil stand the ruins of the church attached
    to the Priory of St Clements.  It was once used as one of the pa-
    rochial places of worship in this parish, but has been deserted from
    its dilapidated state.  Among the remains ascribed to Druidism
    are two stones raised on end, about eight feet above the ground,
    and surrounded by a circle of smaller stones.  There is scarcely
    a vestige of the Danish fortresses extant, the materials having
    been applied to other buildings.
    
                          III.-POPULATION.
       In the year 1755, the population amounted to 1969  souls; in
    1792, to 2536; and at the present period, it is upwards of 4000.
    By the last census, there were, males, 1863; females, 2037; fa-
    milies, 777; houses inhabited, 759.
       Language.-The Gaelic language is universally spoken.
    Character and Habits of the People.-The people are generally
    sober and industrious.  Some of their articles of dress are of the

