
54                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

breadth at the eastern end, from Strathfleet to Strathbrora.
The road in Strathfleet is a continuation of a line of road from
Golspie to Tongue; from which roads branch off in various direc-
tions. From the cross-road to Strathbrora there is a road branch-
ing off to Golspie, and forming a more direct and shorter way to
that village for the inhabitants of the interior of the parish. Along
these lines of road there are sufficient bridges.
   There is no post-office in this parish. Letters to and from it,
for which there is a receiving-office at Pitentrail, are carried twice
a-week by a mail-gig running between Golspie and Tongue. It
is probable, other improvements continuing to advance, that the
communication may become more frequent.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church and manse are situated, not
far from each other, in one of the most elevated parts of the pa-
rish, commanding an extensive and romantic view,-in which the
peaks of almost all the high mountains in the county of Sutherland
form a part. This is a source of enjoyment which is dearly pur-
chased, by the exposure to the wind and storm. The manse was
built in the year 1776, and the church in 1777. The church has
undergone some repair, and the manse has frequently been re-
paired; but, owing to the very exposed situation of the latter,
it cannot be said to be in a good condition. For the parish,
the situation of the church is most inconvenient,-being in its ex-
treme boundary on the east. Consequently, some of the parishion-
ers travel ten miles in coming to hear sermon; which, being doubled
before they return to their homes, is a severe exertion, though it
be cheerfully made, even in the short days of winter. The dis-
tance of the parishioners from the manse is also productive of much
trouble and inconvenience to them. Having few besides their
minister whom they consiilt, various and often recurring are the
occasions which oblige them to travel from their place of resi-
dence to his.
  The minister's stipend is L. 138, 14s. 2 4/12. Sterling, and 15
bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, 3 lippies, half-meal and half-barley, includ-
ing the allowance for communion elements; so that he draws
L. 3, 1s. 5d. from Exchequer, to make his income equal to the
minimum stipend in the Church of Scotland. The glebe con-
sists of arable and pasture land. The arable part has lately been
considerably increased, by trenching small spots capable of im-
provement: so that it may be about eighteen acres in extent. A

