
			FORDOUN.                           81


          * " When the old mansion-house of Pittarrow was pulled
down in 1802, there were discovered on the plaster of the
great hall, to which access was had by a flight of steps, some
paintings in a state of high preservation, the walls having been
wainscotted, at what period is not known. The air and dust hav-
ing thus been excluded, the colours in the paintings were as vivid
as if they had been done only a year before. The only one of the
paintings that may be noticed here, was that which represented
the city of Rome, and a grand procession going to St Peter's. The
Pope, adorned with the tiara, in his full robes of state, and mount-
ed on a horse or mule, led by some person of distinction, was at-
tended by a large company of cardinals, all richly dressed, and
all uncovered. At a little distance, near to where the procession
was to pass, and nearly in front of it, stood a white palfrey, fine-
ly caparisoned, held by some person, also dressed and uncovered.
Beyond this was the magnificent Cathedral of St Peter, the
doors of which seemed to be open to receive the procession. Be-
low the picture was, written the following lines :--

			" In Papam
		Laus tua, non tua fraus : virtus non glaria rerum,
                Scandere te fecit hoc decus eximium ;
                Pauperibus sua dat gratis, nec munera curat
                Curia Papalis, quot more percipimus.
                Haco carmina potius legenda cancros imitando."

	The then proprietor of Pittarrow was totally ignorant, of these
paintings, when he gave orders to pull down the house."
	" Eminent Characters.--John of Fordoun, the historian, was
either a native of the parish, or resided in it when be wrote his his-
tory of Scotland. He is called by Bede 'venerabilis vir Domi-
nus Joannes Fordun, Presbyter.' Although the biographical dic-
tionaries give very little information about him, yet it is generally
believed that he was a priest in the church of Fordoun in 1377,
because he dedicated his history to Cardinal Wardlaw, who at that
time was Archbishop of Glasgow. The time of his death is un-
known. There are MS. Latin copies of his history in the Bodleian
Library, in the British Museum, and in the Advocates' Library,
Edinburgh. It is said that all the convents in Scotland, and some
in, England, bad transcribed copies of it, in such high estimation
was it held.
	" That eminent martyr, George Wishart, one of the early re-
formers in Scotland, and who was barbarousl burned at the stake,

<FOOTNOTE>Notices by Dr Leslie.

	KINCARDINE.                                F


