
                WHITEKIRK AND TYNNINGHAME.                      39

ed the church of St Baldred, and burnt the village of Tynninghame,
in the year 941. "This, (says Chalmers,) is a very early notice
of the kirk-town of Tynningham."
   The manor and patronage of the church of Tynnnighame came in
after ages into the hands of the bishops of St Andrews; and seem, on
the erection of the College of St Mary's, to have been conferred on
that college. But how much sooner that learned body may have been
gainers by this liberality, the parishioners of Tynninghame appear
to have gained little, for in 1565, a complaint was made by them
to the General Assembly, that though they paid their tithes to the
new college, neither word nor sacrament were dispensed among them.
The tithes still belong to the college, but the lands and lordship
of Tynninghame since the year 1628, and the patronage more re-
cently, to the Earl of Haddington. All that now remains of the
ancient church of Tynningbame, which had formerly the privi-
lege of sanctuary, are two elegant arches of Anglo-Saxon architec-
ture, between which is the cemetery of the Haddington family.
   The church and manor of Whitekirk belonged to the monks of
Holyroodhouse in the twelfth century. When Edward III. invad-
ed East Lothian in 1356, the sailors who attended him robbed
the church; a profanation which the canons of Holyrood, who re-
sided there for the service of the Virgin, were unable to prevent;
although she is said to have raised such a storm as to have made
them repent of their temerity. Whitekirk (Albumfanum) became a
place of great resort to those who had faith in the efficacy of pil-
grimages. It was under the pretence of repairing thither, in ful-
filment of a vow for the safety of her son, James II. that the Queen
Mother outwitted the unsuspecting Chancellor Crichton, who had
the custody of the young King, by removing him clandestinely from-
the castle of Edinburgh, and conveying him to Stirling.
   The church lands and barony of Whitekirk were, in the year
1633 granted to the Bishop of Edinburgh, and on the suppression
of that bishoprick, the patronage of the church fell to the Crown.
   The present church of Whitekirk is a very venerable edifice, sur-
mounted by a square tower, and lately put into excellent repair. It
is ninety-six feet above the level of the sea, and is supposed to have
been built before the end of the fifteenth century.
   In the year 1761, the parishes of Whitekirk and Tynninghame
were united, and since that period, the congregation has assembled
for public worship at Whitekirk. The situation, is not inconvenient;
none of the people are three miles from the church, the greater


