
                          DYSART.                                141

the safest and most commodious harbour on the coast, but might
be rendered capable of admitting ships of almost every burden, and
might even admit vessels drawing fifteen feet of water when the
tides were at their lowest ebb. As this, however, required more funds
than the town-council could command, it was resolved a few years
ago to convert a quarry adjacent to the west pier, into a wet dock,--
an undertaking which has been lately completed; so that Dysart can
now boast of a harbour to which none on the coast of Fife can be
compared. The depth of water it contains is fully eighteen feet,
and it will hold about seventeen or eighteen vessels of different
burdens, excltsive of what the old harbour will contain.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church was built in 1802. It
is a neat plain building, is seated for 1600 examinable persons, and
cost from L. 1800 to L. 2000. Its situation, which is at the top
of the town, is fully as convenient for the parishioners in general,
as any other which could have been selected, none of them being
more than twenty minutes walk from it, except those living in the
country, many of whom are above five miles distant The seats
are all private property, except a few which belong to the kirk-ses-
sion. These last are let every half year at, a very low rate, and the
rents given to the poor. There are no free sittings for the poor.
Dysart is a collegiate charge. The stipend of the first minister,
as lately augmented, is 17 1/2 chalders of victual, half meal, and
half barley, payable according to the highest fiar prices of the county.
He has also a chalder of salt yearly, the value ofwhich is L. 3, 12s.;
10 1/2 cwt. of coals weekly; L. 10 for communion elements; and 15s.
11d. from some old buildings, called the Teind Barns, which, with
the consent of the presbytery, were feued to Lord Sinclair about sixty
years since. The Minister has also a manse and grebe, and a right
to the fish teinds. The glebe consists of four acres, and would
bring at present L. 20 of yearly rent. It is only about eleven vears
since a grebe was given. Although the house which the minister
occupies is about forty years old, it is not more than five years since
it was made a manse. The former one, which was built in 1777,
requiring some repairs,-it was thought more advisable to purchase
the present house, which is considerably larger; to which exchange
the presbytery consented. The stipend of the second minister is
10 chalders of victual, half meal and half barley, paid in the same,
manner as that of the first. He has L. 50 of money, part of which
are included in the 10 chalders of victual; 10 1/2 cwt. of coals m
the fortnight, and L. 5 for connnunion elements. He also receives
L. 25 yearly, being the interest of mone mortified in the town,


