
262                          EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Pope Gregory XL confirmed all these rights and jurisdictions by
a Bull, dated 1234; and Robert III added to these all the new
customs exigible within the bounds of the burgh.
   Nearly a century and a half, however, before this, Musselburgh
must have been a place of some importance, as we find that it was
here, on the 12th of October 1201, that the barons of Scotland
assembled to swear fealty to the infant son of William the Lion.*
In 1239, this young prince, afterwards Alexander IL, granted a
right of " libera forestas," or free forestry, over the lands of the
district, to the same favoured abbacy.+
   From all these charters, the monks of Dunfermline enjoyed a
baronial jurisdiction over the parish; and their powers afterwards
extended to those of a regality.  The vicars of Musselburgh were
appointed by the abbacy; and, in their day and generation, they
were considered men of consequence, as their signatures, mingled
with those of the magnates of the land, sufficiently testify.++
A dispute which occurred early in the thirteenth century,--shortly
after the charter of Alexander II.,--between the chiefs and their
nominee, was referred to the Diocesan Bishop, whose decreet was,
that the latter should enjoy the small tithes and the offerings at
the altars of Muscelburg, excepting the fish of every kind, and the
tithes of the mills belonging to the monks, for which, as an equiva-
lent, the vicar was to refund ten merks annually.  This decision un-
questionably shows, that other places of worship were already in ex-
istence in the district, and that in all probability, the shrines of
" Mary Magdalene" on the one side, and of " Our Lady of Lo-
retto" on the other, were rife with devotees.
   After a life of chivalry, heroism, and devotion to all the best
interests of his native land, it was here that the renowned
Randolph, Earl of Murray, the Regent of Scotland, died on the
20th July 1332.  In consequence of preparations by the English
to invade Scotland, he had assembled an army, and advanced to
Colbrandspath, on the frontier of Berwickshire, when news of a
naval armament from the south obliged him to return homewards,
and provide for the defence of the capital.  The tradition of the-

<FOOTNOTE>Chartulary of Melrosex 181.  Lord Hailes's Annals, Vol. i. p. 151.
          MS, Monast.  Scotise, Chart.  Newbottle, No. 127.
          In Bagimont's Roll. as its stood under James V., the vicarage of Musselburgh
          was taxed at L.5 6s. 8d.
         The distinguished Dr Lee, one of the Chaplains for Scotland, and others, remem-
ber ruins now covered by the sea at Magdalene Bridge, supposed to be those of the
chapel. We are inclined to think otherwise, and that these were only offices apper-
taining to it.


