
                            AUCHTERGAVEN.                                425

      growth, this place will form no contrast to what the same author
      justly calls at a furlong's distance from it, "one of the loveliest
      and richest scenes of Scotland-the north-west opening of Strath-
      more." At no distant period, however, this was a cold and dismal
      place.  And as Morrison adds, "The miserable patches of sick-
      ly corn which have with vast labour and cost been obtained, look
      still more melancholy than the solitary t`rn which the barren earth
      seems to have drunk up.  The whole aspect of the place fitted it
      for being the scene of the trial and punishment of one of the most
      notorious bands of thieves and outlaws that ever laid the low country
      under contribution.  Ruthven, the sheriff, is said to have held his
      court on a rising ground to the north, still called the Court-hill;
      and there were lately, or there still may be, at the east end of
      Roch-an-roy wood, some oaks on which the Highlanders were
      hung, and which long went under the name of the "Hanged-
      men's-trees." Some of these trees still remain in the parish of
      Little Dunkeld; but the reproach of the Stare Dam has passed
      away, and must henceforth be spoken of in the past tense.
         Meteorology and Climate.-The annual range of the barometer
      at the manse which occupies a rather low situation, is from
      28 1/2 to 30 1/2 inches.  On the 13th of October last, when the
      moon was eclipsed, it rose to 86 inches 6-1Oths.  It is generally
      high while the wind is in the east.  As indicated by a rain-gage
      kept by the Rev. Mr Mather, the minister of Stanley, the depth
      of rain in the following years was, in 1833, 28.7 inches; 1884,
      29.1 inches; 1835, 26.54 inches; 1836, 34.30 inches; 1837,
      from Ist January to 30th September, 22.30 inches.  The heaviest
      rains as well as the highest winds are from the south-west.  The
      east wind is generally here as elsewhere, attended with cloudy
      weather; but it does not cause here the disagreeable sensation
      which is expdrienced on the east coast. The hills on the north-
      west attract the clouds, in consequence of which a great deal more
      rain falls on them than on the lower, districts of the parish.  On
      the 13th day of October 1831, an uncommon fall of rain on the
      hills caused a higher flood than had happened in the memory of
      the oldest person in the parish.  All the flat land had the appear-
      ance of lakes; and much damage was done to roads amd bridges,
      as well as to potato fields.  The snow storm which fell on the
      28th of October 1836 covered a great deal of standing corn, as
      well as almost all the potatoes, so that the harvest was not finished till
      after the new year; yet comparatively little damage was sustain-


