
     of Dyke and Moy.

village a municipium; but no traces of any municipal pri-
vileges now remain.
   Moy is from Maigh, a plain; which being remarkable
for its fine level extent and fertility, is, by way of distinc-
tion, called the Moy, and formerly the Mey.  In this plain
were two distinct contiguous estates, now vested in one pro-
prietor, called the Easter and Wester Mey.  Each of these
had a village of its own name.  In the village and lands of
Easter Moy* stood a prebendary church.  The burial-
ground around it is yet in use.

   Bearing and Situation.-This united parish, by an obser-
vation taken at the shore, is in 57 degrees 26' 21" north latitude.
It lies in the synod of Moray, the presbytery of Forres, and
county of Elgin and Forres; being situated on the south
coast of the Moray Frith, and on the west side of the river
Findern, excepting only the lands of Upper and Nether
Buchtalies, and the lands of Moy Carse, on the right side, or
east of that river.  It is the most westerly coast parish in the
presbytery or county to which it belongs; being west of the
     Vol. XX. B b

<FOOTNOTE>

*Easter Moy is one of those insulated districts which has been append-
ed to a different county from that wherein it lies, and is subject to the ju-
risdiction of the county of Nairm, because it had belonged to the Thanes of
Calder while they were hereditary Sheriffs of Nairm.  There are many in-
stances, both in South and North Britain, of particular spots to connected
with distant countries, that are in some cases very remote.  Such appendages
were made per annexationem, after the introduction of the feudal system,
to gratify the haughty spirit of the feudal Barons, who would neither reside,
nor let their vassals live, under any other jurisdiction but their own.  If the
act vesting heritable jurisdictions in the Crown has not already made suitable
provisions, express or implied, for a more near and ready administration of
justice, against the inhabitants of lands and tenements annexed to remote
counties, the aforesaid encroachments of the feudal system, on the former di-
visions of the kingdom, may be productive, in some cases, of inconveniencies,
not undeserving the notice of the Legislature.


