
        	                  RHYND.                            363

	nour, covered it with a new roof, in order to preserve from the
	further injuries of the weather, the residence of many of his illus-
	trious ancestors.
	                         III.-POPULATION.
	   The resident inhabitants of the parish are the cottagers, who
	live in small huts or cottages, scattered up and down and the fish-
	ers, who are employed in the Tay and Earn, and who are also
	occasionally employed by the farmers to assist them in their agri-
	cultural operations togethdr with two or three tradesmen, whose
	labours are continually required.
	   There is no public-house of any kind in the parish-a circum-
	stance which the inhabitants have little reason to regret.
	   The parish was at one period much more populous than it is at
	present.  At the period of the former Statistical Account, it amount-
	ed to 495; it is now, only 400.  This diminution was occasioned
	by throwing into one large farm, a considerable number of small
	parcels of land, which were occupied by separate and distinct tenants,
	and who, of consequence, were compelled to leave the place, and
	remove to other situations, where they could find employment. Of
	the present population, 88 belong to the Secession, and the re-
	mainder adhere to the Established Church.

<TABLE>

	Number of families in the parish,                                          74
	                   chiefly employed in agriculture,                        24
	                                       trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 10

                                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   The parish is almost wholly an agricultural parish.  The cul-
	tivation of the land is the great object which engages attention.
	The soil, which, in many places, is chiefly alluvial, is of the richest
	quality, and calculated to produce the most abundant crops.  The
	deep and navigable rivers, by which, on two sides, it is bounded,
	afford to its inhabitants every facility for exporting their surplus
	produce, as well as for importing those articles of which they may
	stand in need, and which are the produce of other lands, or of
	manufacturing indurtry.
	   The farms in this parish, which are at present only six in num-
	ber, seem of a proper magnitude or dimension for conducting, on
	a large scale, agricultural operations.  They vary from 190 to
	400 acres and upwards.  They are furnished with suitable stead-
	ings, and with dwelling-houses for the tenants, adapted to their
	circumstances and condition in life, and to the rank and station
	which they may be supposed to occupy in society.
           Though there is no resident heritor or proprietor in the parish,


