
272			AYRSHIRE.

others appear:--"Hew Erle of Eglintoun" contracted with
"George Elphinstoun glssinwricht, burges of Glasgow, that the
said George suld uphald and mantene the places of Ardrossan,
Eglintoun, Polnone, Glasgow, and Cumray in glassin wark, as
also the place of Irvin;" and for all which, Elphinstoun was to re-
ceive yearly, "twa bollis meill, and ane stane cheis," "and gif it
happinis the said Erle to hald house in ony of thir foir-saidis
places when it sal happin, the said George to wirk, the said
George sall have his meit the time that he wirks, and als when
the said George tursis creillis of glas and leid to Irvyn, Ardrossan,
Eglintoun, and Cumray, the said Erle sal caus ane carrage hors
to turs the samyn out of Glasgow," * &c.
	The ruins of the chapel and tomb of St Vey, alluded to in the
former Account, still remain. They are situated near the top of
the hill, a little northward of the castle. The chapel is 33 feet
by 15 inside; the walls, very little of which are now standing, are
about three feet in thickness, but the mortar with which they have
been built seems to have been bad, and very sparingly used. In
the tomb, which is at a little distance north of the chapel, are two
flat stones, on one of which, now broken in two, are sculptured
some ornamental tracery, such as is usually to be seen on those
ancient monuments called Danish stones, but no vestige of any
inscription is to be observed on any of them. This enclosure,
which is of a square form, and of very limited dimensions, was
originally surrounded by a stone wall, but of which only the
foundation now exists. There is a tradition, that this chapel, ano-
ther at Ardrossan, and a third on the Garrock-bead, in Bute, were
all served by one and the same priest, who of course, journeyed
per vices among them.
	About twenty years ago, the late Earl of Eglinton caused to be
opened some tumuli on the north extremity of this island, called
Shanniwilly point; and in which were found sepulchral urns, and
fragments of military weapons, which were all carried off to Eglin-
ton Castle.
	A son and successor of the historian Wodrow, in the parish of
Eastwood, spent his latter days in this sequestered island, where
he died, and was interred in a tomb, which had some time before
been constructed for the sepulture of one of his daughters, who
had died here in early life of consumption. This romantic burial-

<FOOTNOTE>To this contract "Maister Patrik Wodrow, vicar of Eglescheme," ancestor of
the historian of the Scotish Church, is a witness.


