
500                           FORFARSHIRE.

  Extent, 300 imperial acres; rent, L.672, or L.2, 15s. per
acre.

<TABLE>

    Quantity of land in oats,       50 acres,    Produce, 7 1/2 quarters per acre.
                     in barley,     50 do.                    6 quarters do.
                     in wheat,      34 do.                    5 quarters do.
                     in turnip,     50 do.
                     in potatoes,   36 do.
                     in hay,        50 do.
                     in pasture,    25 do.
   Live-Stock.- Cows, queys, or oxen, 48; sheep, 240;* swine, 12.
Number of horses of all kinds, 10.
   The greater part of the parish at a distance from the town is
on the five shift rotation, pasture, oats, green crop (chiefly tur-
nip,) barley, and cut grass. In the western part of the parish
there are a great number of small pendicles on inferior land, of
which this is the rotation,-the produce of oats and barley be-
ing there scarcely two quarters per acre. The quantity of naked
fallow in the parish is small; almost all the land fitted for wheat
is prepared for crop by potatoes. The quantity of beans and
pease is very small, being entirely confined to two farms on the
large scale.
   Wages.-Married farm-servants are preferred on almost all the
farms, and their wages and emoluments are as follows: Wages
annually, L.10, with house and yard; oatmeal, 8 cwt. 1 stone;
1 quart 1 pint new milk daily; potatoes, 100 stones; coals, 11s.
Foremen or principal men obtain two or three pounds more of
wages; and instead of milk they have the produce of a cow.
Young unmarried men have L.12, with equal milk and meal as
above, but without potatoes. Labourer's wages, 1s. 8d. per day
in summer, and 1s. 3d. in winter. Maid-servants have from
L.2, 5s. to L.3, 3s. in the half year.
   The whole farm produce is disposed of by sample and weight
in Arbroath. Great profit used to be derived by farmers in the
neighbourhood, from green crop and from grass, for cutting; but
this way of disposing of their produce has been much departed
from, on account of the difficulty of obtaining payments. Many
fields, however, are still let for potatoes, in small lots at the rate
of L.8, 5s. the acre; the farmer furnishing all the horse-work,
and the individual planters furnishing the seed and manual labour.
Many families, of the manufacturing classes, secure their winter
potatoes in-this manner, which now constitute two meals of the

<FOOTNOTE>This number of sheep is not usual; only one other farmer in the parish has a
similar stook.


