
926                        ABERDERNSIHIRE.

<TABLE>
        Number of Old Light Seceders,	.	.	.	.     3
                  United Secession,	.	.	.	.         183
                                                                ----
        Total number separated from the Establishment Church, . 381
                     belonging to       do,          do.	.  2424
                                                               ----
        Gross population as formerly,	.	.	.	.  2805

   There is a neat Episcopalian place of worship in the neighbour-
hood of the village, capable of accommodating a congregation of
from 300 to 400.  Many Episcopalians belonging to the neighbouring
parishes attend public ordinances at Ellon.  The United Secession
and Independents have also each a place of worship in the village,
but the Independent church has not enjoyed the services of a resi-
dent clergyman for the last four or five years.  The number of per-
sons who, on an average of years, actually partake of the Lord's sup-
per in the Established Church is about 1120 ; and, making an al-
lowance for sickness, the infirmities of age, and other casualties,
the total number of adults in full communion with the Church of
Scotland will not fall much below 1200.
   Education.-There are two parochial schools in the parish,
both of which, and particularly the principal one, which has its
site in the village, and at which the attendance is more regular,
are conducted according to the most improved system of educa-
tion, and with great ability and efficiency on the part of the teach-
ers.  The parochial school in the village is generally attended by
upwards of 100 pupils, and the numbers, though somewhat less in
summer than during the winter months, are, on the whole, more
steady and uniform than is usual in country schools.  At the other
parochial school, which is placed in the northern district of the pa-
rish, at a distance of about four miles from the village, the atten-
dance is far less regular, the number of pupils varying from
thirty to sixty, according to the season of the year.  What has been
termed the intellectual system of education has been adopted in
both schools with such modifications of the plans usually followed
as the judgment of the teachers, enlightened by a practical acquain-
tance with the peculiar circumstances of a country school, have led
them to approve.  It is an object uniformly kept in view by the
teachers, to call into exercise on the part of their pupils, the powers
of reflection and judgment.  A great proportion of that class
of scholars in both schools, whose education was limited only a
few years ago to the elementary branches of reading, writing, and
the fundamental rules of arithmetic, are now instructed, and, in many
                             3


