
36                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

said to be a moral and a religious people.  It must, however, be ad-
mitted, that, in common with a large proportion of their country-
men, the religion of many of the native population of the lower
class is not without serious and inveterate errors.  Christian con-
version, in their view, essentially consists, not in the forsaking of
wicked ways and unrighteous thoughts, and in returning from these
to the Lord, but in another sort of change not distinctly connect-
ed with a moral life.  A set of illiterate, fanatical, and disorderly,
self-appointed teachers of religion have, by their wild and mysti-
cal rhapsodies, acquired a baneful ascendant over the ignorant
winds of the lower orders of the people not only in this country,
but in other parts of the Highlands.  In the mouths of these
teachers, prayer is irreverently perverted'into mere discussion, vir-
tually addressed, not to God, but to the bearers, and frequently
degenerates into bitter personalities and invectives.  By these de-
luding, and often deluded persons, the metaphorical parts of the
Holy Scriptures are received and taught in the literal sense, and
the plainest parts are very often allegorized.  Not unfrequently the
Scriptures are considered as a mere secondary thing, of little avail;
and that pastor who studies them closely and critically, and ex-
pounds them in their true sense, is regarded as if he were dealing
with occult and unhallowed sciences.
                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The number of acres, impe-
rial measure, in the parish which are either cultivated or occasion-
ally in tillage is about 2040.  Of unimproved land there is very
little.  There are about 800 acres under wood.  Every attention
seems to be paid to the plantations.
   The trees and plants in this parish are of those kinds which
are common to other parts of the Highlands.  Since the former
Statistical Account was written, a considerable space of 'land has
been planted with forest trees, by which the appearance of the pa-
rish is greatly improved.
   Bent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per imperial
acre in this. parish is L. 1, 2s. - The average rate of grazing is
L.1 10s. per ox or cow grazed, and 2s. per ewe or full-grown sheep,
pastured for the year.
   Rate of Wages- The rate of wages is bLs follows: A ploughman,
for the year, receives L. IO in money, one stone of meal per week,
keep for a cow, (or a cow between two,) six bolls of potatoes, with
house and fuel.  A male day labourer gets 1s. 6d. in the long day,


