
                         ARDNAMURCHAN.                     145

Highland antiquities.  He wrote for the London Literary Gazette
some light and amusing sketches of Highland superstitions,
and was also the author of a treatise on diseases of the nerves.
Constantly occupied with schemes for the public benefit, some of
which he communicated to Government, and for one of which, at
least, he received the thanks of the late Duke of York, he ne-
glected, as too often happens with such persons, his private affairs,
and at last fell a victim to the use of opium.  His humanity hav-
ing never been appealed to in vain by the poor of the western part
of Ardnanurchan, where he resided, and his professional skill and
time always at their disposal ; the inhabitants gratefully contri-
buted to his comfort, when an inmate of a lunatic asylum.
   Antiquities.-Of these the most curious are, the vitrified forts,
of which there are several, the largest and most remarkable being
situated in Eilein nan Gobhar, in Lochaylort.  On this islet, an
abrupt and irregular mass of fine mica-slate, are two works of this
description, within a few yards of each other, one of an oblong fi-
gure, 140 paces in circumference, the other 90 paces and circu-
lar.  The walls which, in some parts, are seven or eight feet high,
are composed of stones of various sizes heaped confusedly, and ce-
mented by vitrified matter, nowhere solid or compact.  At the en-
trance to the largest, there are the remains of a facing of com-
mon stone imbedded in cement, which probably extended, at
one time, all round the fort.  Within, the area is not level, but
a deep hollow like an inverted cone, and strongly resembling the
extinct crater of a volcano. *
   The Castle of Mingary, the ancient hold of Mac Ian, is situ-
ated on the southern shore of Ardnamurchan, about five or six
miles from the point.  Its shape is rather irregular, being adapted
to the site ; it is broadest on the land side, on which it is protect-
ed by a foss, over which there was once a drawbridge, and narrow-
est towards the sea which it overhangs.  On this side the rock
has been scarped and rendered perpendicular.  There is an en-
trance on the north or land side across the west end of the ditch,
and another on the south, communicating with the sea by a narrow
exposed stair hewn out of the rock.  On the top, there is a ram-
part with embrasures all round, and several loop holes in the lower
parts uf the building.  The interior consists of a large, house of

<FOOTNOTE>It is a fact which the writer has seen exemplified, that common sod subjected to
strong beat fuses into a substance similar to the cement of vitrified forts.  This be-
ing much more easily effected than the fusion of stone, corroborates the generally
received opinion, that these works were buildings of the ancient inhabitants.


