
416                      FIFESHIRE.

There are four fatuous persons in the parish, one insane, and
one or two blind.
The chief game is golf,-the links, though not very extensive,
being well adapted for it. A golf club has been in existence'up-
wards of forty years.
IV.-INDUSTRY.
There are about 2900 imperial acres in the parish, of which
from 400 to 500 are in pasture, and nearly 90 are covered with
wood. From the extent of rocky surface, there is a considerable
proportion of waste land, but none that could profitably be added
to what is already in cultivation. Some of it, however, might be
advantageously planted. There is no land in the parish in undi-
vided common.
Bent ofLand.-The value ofarable land varies from L. 1, 10s.
up to L. 7 per acre; the, average rent may be nearly L. 3. The
rent of grazing is estimated at L. 3 for an ox or cow, and at 15s.
for a sheep.
Bate of Wages.-Farm-servants receive from 9s. to 12s. per
week ; and the different kinds ofcountry artisans from 15s. to L. L
Husbandry.-The following is the rotation of cr s adopted in
op
the southern and more fertile part of the parish :-green croN
succeeded by wheat, barley, or oats; and then green-,crop of a
different kind from what has been two years before. The rota-
tion in the more northern parts is as follows:-green crop, bar-
ley or oats, and sometimes wheat; sown grass, one, two, or three
years; then oats. The system of husbandry may be regarded as
carried in some parts of the parish to great perfection. - Within a
few years, some waste land has been reclaimed, and great improve-
ments have been effected by liming and training. The farm-
steadings are, for the most part, in excellent order ; but there is
in some quarters, a great want of fences, and on this account there
is little or no pasture in the most fertile district of the parish.
The usual period of a lease is nineteen years. The cattle are ge-
nerally of the Fife breed, and t1w sheep of the Cheviot breed.
Produce.-It is difficult to ascertain the gross produce of the
parish ; but the real rental being about L. 4800, should give an
average of about L. 14,000.
Corn-Mills.- Of these there are two, both in the neighbour-
hood of the town. One of them is driven by the sea, and can
work on an average about fourteen hours per day.
Didillery.-There is an extensive distillery at Grange, about
half a-mile to the northward of the town ; I 1,000 quarters of malt,


