
102                        SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

the cape, where the light-house yacht lands the oil and necessa-
ries for the light-house; but is seldom attempted in stormy wea-
ther with northerly winds.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated within half a mile
of the manse, at Balnakiel Biy. About three-fourths of the po-
pulation, or all within six miles, attend. Its distance from the ex-
tremity to the south-east is 26 miles, and from the western extre-
mity 12 miles. It was built in 1619, and the aisle added in 1692;
it has no galleries, and contains 300 sittings, which are all free. It
stands much in-need of repair and enlargement. The practice of
burying within the walls has been discontinued for nearly a cen-
tury. The manse was rebuilt in 1830, and is commodious. The
glebe, including its hill grazings and pertinents, may be worth L.30
per annum. The stipend is L.150, and is on the list of small liv-
ings augmented by act of Parliament in 1812.
   In the Eriboll district, there is sermon preached every alternate
Sabbath ; it is connected with the Milness district of the parish of
Tongue, twelve miles distant. The missionary here is supported
solely by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, on a sa-
lary of L. 50. There are no Dissenters or Roinan Catholics. The
sacramient is dispensed once a-year, in summer. The number of
commumications is 70 ; but, on such occasions, tokens to the amount
of 150 are distributed to communicants who attend from neigh-
bouring parishes. Collections in aid of religious and charitable
institutions are occasionally made, the average annual amount of
which may be L. 3.
    The schools in the parish are, parochial, 1 ; Assembly 1 ; sub-
scription, 2; in which the ordinary elementary branches are taught.
The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the minimum, or L. 24:
of the General Assembly's L. 20. The school-fees in either of these
do not exceed L. 4 per annum. The former has not the legal ac-
commodations; those of the latter are new and sufficient. The
subscription schools are chiefly taught during the winter. In some
remote hamlets and families, boys are hired during the winter
months to teach, at the rate of 20s. per month, and board. A con-
siderable number of cottars and poor tenants, who have access to
the parochial school, have not of late years been much alive to the
benefits of education.-which may arise from their poverty, or want
of confidence in the ability and diligence of a teacher so indiffe-
rently remunerated.
   The number of persons betwixt 6 and 15 who cannot read or


