
     Statistical Account

potatoes the division which was last in oats.  This rotation
is continued from year to year; the manure being generally
lime, and the dung the cattle makes in winter.  The out-
field, is allowed to lie ley, or in pasture, for 2 years, and the
milk cattle and sheep are folded upon it:  Then there are 2
running crops of oats, and sometimes 3, taken of it, and the
same rest, and cropping is continued, being the general process
of agriculture in this country.  There is no grass seed sown
but by 1 gentleman; and the extent of land is not ascertained.
The parish supplies the inhabitants with beef, mutton, butter
and cheese; but it hardly does so in meal for 7 months of the
year, and the bear, being all distilled into whisky, occasions a con-
siderable quantity of that grain to be imported.  The time of fow-
ing oats, is from the beginning of April to the middle of it;
the potatoe planting begins then; and bear from the 8th to the
15th of May.  The bear is begun to be cut towards the lat-
ter end of August, and the oats about the middle or end of
September, and sometimes in October.-As the south end of
the parish, lies mostly upon the shore, near a good harbour, it
is equally calculated for tillage and pasture.  The arable land,
(which is considered among the best in this part of the coun-
try), lying low, and ripening pretty early, with the materials
for improving it almost upon every field, such as limestone
and roofs, with the appearance of marl in different places,
though hitherto not much tried.  The north end is consider
ed among the best pasture land*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The wages of male servants, in the different kinds of husbandry or domes-
tic work, by the year, is from 6 L to 7 L.; of female servants, from 50 s. to 3 L.;
only, in harvest, a female may make from 25 s. to 30 s. for 3 months.  These
wages are considered as high here; and the rife being within there few years,
is imputed to the different improvements going on in the low Country, this
parish being nearly a day's journey to it, and many of the servants acquainted


