
                     ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                  953

Near Calderside, in Blantyre, part of a tree completely petrified
rises out of the bed of the river.  From the stem, only part of
which remains in an upright growing position, proceed two root
shoots, each from 13 to 14 inches in diameter.  It appears to be
composed of a close-grained whitish sandstone, with small specks
of mica, and dotted with spots of oxide of iron, as minute as needle
points.  On the banks of the Kelvin, in Govan parish, nearly
thirty fossil trees were, several years ago, discovered standing close
to One another, and in their natural position.  Not more than two
feet of the trunks, however, remained attached to the roots.  They
appear to belong to the dicotyledonous class.  To the geologist,
however, the most interesting organic phenomena are the remains
of plants, shells, and animals, some of them of genera now extinct,
or unknown, which are found in the strata of coal, freestone, and
lime. *  In these, the strata in the parish of Carluke appear to be
particularly rich.  In Bothwell, Hamilton, Blantyre, Lesmahago,
Douglas, and indeed through the whole extent of the coal district,
interesting organic remains occur; and few counties could present
a more inviting or instructive field to the geologist.
   Altitudes.--The eminences in Lanarkshire, which are entitled
to the appellation of mountains, are in the hilly ranges of the Up-
per Ward.  On the borders of Ayrshire is Cairntable, 1650 feet
above the level of the sea; near the Dumfries borders, are the
Lowthers, the loftiest summit of which is 3110 feet; Tinto, 2350
feet above the sea level, and 1740 feet above the Clyde; Culter
Fell, 2330 feet; Dunsyre hill, 1235 feet; Dolphinton bill, 1550
feet.  In the Middle and Lower Wards, the ground is in general
of so moderate elevation, that, from a spot not above 150 feet
above the level of the sea, all the heights of the Isle of Arran, fifty
miles distant, may be seen in a clear day.
   Meteorology.--In the Lower Ward, situate on an isthmus little
more than thirty miles broad, between the Forth and the Clyde,
which opens gradually to the German and Atlantic Oceans, the
temperate influence of the sea breeze is felt more or less through-
out the year.  The west and south-west winds prevail for about
two-thirds of the year; and, sweeping over the vast Atlantic, un-
broken by any intervening land, they come, surcharged indeed with
vapour, yet in all the mildness of the ocean temperature.  The

<FOOTNOTE>
    * In a bed of stratified clay in Govan, at Icast 80 feet above the level of the sea,
150 species of shells have been found, nearly a tenth part of which is not known to
exist in be present seas.  Of these Mr Smith of Jordanhill has formed a catalogue.


