
554                       FIFESHIRE.

The manse was built for Dr Chalmers in 1810. By his advice,
the site of it was removed from the village to its present situa-
tion on the glebe. It is now about 400 paces to the west of the
church. This change for many reasons was a desirable one. The
old site with the garden, and small park below the church, do not
now belong to the minister. They were exchanged in 1820, for
land lying contiguous to the principal part of the glebe. The
manse now stands by itself, in a fine park of ten acres, with an
excellent approach to it, which the late site completely wanted.
The manse and offices are in good repair, and are in every way
suitable to the accommodation of the minister. The garden is sur-
rounded with an excellent wall, five and a half feet high to the
south, nine and a half to the east, north, and west; it was built in
1820. The heritors allowed for this purpose L.45; the present
incumbent, for his own conveniency, gave an additional L.10. It
is now well stocked with fruit trees, although the soil is not very
favourable for their growth; and with an abundance of gooseberry,
an d currant bushes. The ground about the manse was laid out
with great taste by Dr Chalmers. It remains very much in the
state in which he left it. The glebe consists of nearly 10 acres
Scotch measure, and is enclosed with a beech and thorn hedge.
The soil is unequal; but a great part of it is good and sharp; and,
under proper management, is productive. It would let over head
at L.A.3 to L.3, 10s. per acre. The stipend during the greatest
part of Dr Chalmers' incumbency, and of mine, was, wheat, 8
bolls; barley, 92 bolls, 1 firlot I peck, 0 3/4 lippies; oatmeal, 48 bolls,
1 firlot, 1 peck, 0 3/4 lippies; oats, 40 bolls, with L.8, 6s. 8d. of
communion elements. In 1832 the stipend was augmented by
the Court of Teinds, as follows: wheat, 8 bolls; barley, 116 bolls;
oatmeal 116, with L.8, 6s. 8d. as communion elements. The
whole teinds of the parish, except what the minister receives as
stipend, belong to the United College of St Andrews, and every
augmentation which is granted is taken from the revenues of that
most respectable body. This is a state of things which is in
every way to be regretted, and the college has unquestionably
a just claim upon Government, for the loss which by various aug-
mentations, they have sustained. The Principal and Professors
of the said college are patrons of the parish.
  There has been, a dissenting chapel in the parish since 1762.
The clergyman, I believe, is paid by the collections, and the seat-
rents; his salary is about L.100. He has, in addition, a good


