
16                     BERWICKSHIRE.

of paupers, and sometimes aid poor strangers who are over taken
with calamity in travelling from one place to another. It is an ob-
ject steadily kept in view by the managers of our poor, to keep
down as much as they can the legal assessment: and their efforts
have not been altogether unsuccessful. The assessment is indeed
still considerable, but at no distant period it was larger; for a num-
ber of years it has been pretty stationary, and although there be
some who feel not the least delicacy in demanding such support as
the law may afford them, yet in general our poor do appear to con-
sider it as rather degrading to seek parochial relief, and therefore
do not seek it till they be involved in real indigence.
   Prison.-In Lauder there is a prison, containing three apart-
ments, tolerably well-secured. It happily has seldom any inmates.
In the course of last year a very few culprits were confined in it for
a short period, on account of rioting or pilfering.
   Fais.-Five fairs are annually held in the parish, the first in
the beginning of March, at which seed-corn is sold by sample, and
the farmers engage their hinds; the second in April, for hiring
single servants of both sexes for the ensuing half year; the third
in June, at which a few cattle, chiefly milch cows, are sold; the
fourth in July, at which lambs are exposed to sale; the fifth in Oc-
tober, for the same purpose as the one in April. The principal
are the hiring fairs in April and October.
   Inns, &c.-There are in the parish not fewer than 22 inns or
public houses, 15 in the town and 7 in the country. Good would
it be for the morals of the inhabitants, if the number of these (some
of which are too often the haunts of folly and vice,) were greatly re-
duced. At the same time, it is but fair to state, that drunkenness
seems to be somewhat less prevalent than it was formerly.
   Fuel.-The fuel burnt by a few of the people who reside in the
hilly parts of the parish is peat or turf; but coal is almost univer-
sally and solely used. It is brought from the neighbourhood of
Pathhead, Mid-Lothian; its quality is generally good; but in con-
sequence of the long carriage (14 or 15 miles) it costs the people,
when laid down at their doors, about 10d. per cwt.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The appearance of the arable part of the parish is very much
changed, for the better since the period when the last Statistical
Account was written. The lands are now far better cultivated by
an intelligent and industrious tenantry, while the landlords (espe-
cially the principal one) have done much by draining, planting,


