
66                          FIFESHIRE.

the fee of Fyntreth, and their whole wood with their lands of Lin-
doris in free forestry." Isabella de Brous gave to the abbey her
land of Cragyn, near Dundee, with all her land in the town of Mel-
neton, and in the town of Abraham (villa Abrahe.) James II.
granted to the abbey "his lands of Parkhill, and also the office of
forestry of his wood of Ironside, lying in the lands of Parkhill in
Fyfe."
   Of the abbots and other dignified clergy connected with this
monastery, not many particulars have been recorded. Fordun
mentions Guido as the first, and that he was succeeded by Tho-
mas, a man of great sanctity; upon whose death, John, one of the
priors, was raised to the dignity of abbot. This individual was
buried at Kelso, and was succeeded by Nicholas Cellerarius de
Lindores. One name in the list of more distinguished eminence
occurs, Lawrence, who had been a Doctor of Civil Law at St An-
drews, and was associated with Bishop Wardlaw in laying the foun-
dation of a university there. "Magnus Theologus et vitae venerabi-
lis vir," we can therefore believe him to have been; but as if to tar-
nish the lustre derived from this literary achievement, the same au-
thority has recorded of him, "et heretico pravitatis inquisitor," and
instances the case of Jacob Resby, an English priest, and one of the
followers of Wykliff, whom he condemned to be burned at Perth,
upon a charge of forty articles of heresy. He was the first individual
in Scotland who suffered for anti-papistry, in the year 1408, a cu-
rious account of whose trial is given in the Scotichronicon. At
this period, a new impulse was given to learning; the long night
of comparative ignorance and superstition was giving way to the
rising dawn of knowledge and truth; its light had already expos-
ed many of the errors of papal theology, and was marshalling the
way to that removal of its corruptions which was completed in the
succeeding century at the Reformation. Many of the clergy and
even monks and friars in England, had embraced the opinions of
the proto-reformers, Wykliff and Huss. Lawrence of Lindores
seems to have been a man of greaf firmness and decision, and was
raised by the Pope to the high office of Inquisitor in Scotland;
and me soon after find him engaged in the condemnation of ano-
ther heretic, one Paul Crawar, a Bohemian, who came into this
country as a physician. He embraced with great zeal and suc-
cess the opportunities which his profession afforded him, of in-
culcating his opinions, but was speedily interrupted in the midst


