
88                               ELGINSHIRE.

ing the disease among the community,-are not the best or wisest
for hastening the cure of the afflicted.
   Character, &c. of the People.-Improved in the cleanliness of their
habits, and in the quality and neatness of their Sabbath day attire,
diligent in their various callings, and attentive to their religious and
moral duties in public and private,-there are perhaps few rural
communities that, "upon the whole, enjoy in a higher degree the
comforts and advantages of society, or are more contented with
their situation and circumstances."  For these comforts, they are
indebted chiefly to the liberal system of management which has
been adopted in this part of the Seafield property, where an al-
lowance (of L.5) is given to the tenant for every acre that he takes
from the waste ground, improves and adds to the arable land of
his farm.  The enterprising tenant has thus been enabled to lime
his field, and to reap such returns as no other application could
secure.
   The habits, the comforts, and the morals of the peasantry of the
north of Scotland experienced a beneficial change when illicit dis-
tillation was suppressed: and this was the case in few districts to a
greater degree than in the upper parts of Moray-where night
was turned into day, the farm and family neglected, and all credit
and character perilled in this demoralizing manufacture and traffic.
All, however, now allow that the well filled stack-yard is a more
becoming appendage, than the bothie, to the farm; and few of
the oldest smugglers deny that the suppression of their trade has
turned out, in the end, as beneficial for themselves as it was, at the
time, just to others.
   In this parish, the good effects of the entire absence of the spirit-
retailer, as well as of the complete suppression of illicit distillation
and smuggling, are to be clearly seen, and are thankfully acknow-
ledged.  There is a licensed malt barn; but neither fair nor village,
neither inn, alehouse, nor gin-shop, nor manufacturers, nor lawyers,
are within its bounds. Elgin, distant about six miles from the centre
of this parish, is the post-town, and the market for all commodities.

                	IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture,-The parish of Birnie contains, by measurement,
5784 Scots acres; of which 829 were in cultivation in 1784, the
rest in pasture, moor moss and waste ground.  At present there
are about 1600 Scots acres arable, 304 imperial acres under wood,
and of the remainder, 400 acres might, with a profitable applica-
tion of capital, be unclaimed and added to the cultivated ground.


