
8                      WIGTONSHIRE.

The monthly contribution is 7d. No member is admitted to
the superannuated list so long as be is able to work. Those on
the sick list are allowed 4s. per week for the first three months, 3s.
for the next three months, and afterwards 2s. per week; and they
are still liable to pay the monthly contributions. The sum of L. 4
is allowed for the funeral of each member, or they m draw L. 2
of the above sum when the wife dies. The funds at interest are
L. 600. More than a third part of the members reside in the pa-
rish. To prevent the funds from being dilapidated, they have
agreed that every person alimented shall submit to a rateable re-
duction if necessary. The funds have hitherto, been equal to the
demand. This institution has obvious and undoubted advantages.
It encourages a spirit of independence, and stimulates to industry,
and prevents many from becoming a burden upon the community.
	Poor.--The average number of poor upon the roll in the year
1837 was 34, and the total amount applied was L. 96. The church
collections average for the last three years L. 52, 6s. 2d. per an-
num. There is no assessment, but a voluntary contribution by
the beritors for some years averaged L, 72, 6s. 8d, and L. 7 more
were received from other parties. The amount from a mortified
sum of L. 600 is L. 24 annually. The number of poor receiving
occasional relief is 14, and the amount applied to them is L. 60.
	The great influx of Irish labourers and vagrants into this dis-
trict operates heavily upon the poor's funds, and there is little pros-
pect of that evil being corrected, while there is no legal provision
for the indigent in that country.
	Prisons.--The prison bas long been complained of as insecure
and unhealthy. An addition and considerable repairs have been
for some time past in contemplation.
	Fairs.--There are, five in the course of the year; but there is
little or no business done; in them, and they are now fallen into
complete neglect.
	Fuel.--The parish is well supplied with fuel--both with peats
from a neighbouring moss, and with excellent coals, at a moderate
price, from Whitehaven.

	Revised January 1839.



