
GOLSPIE.                              31

works, chiefly connected with German literature, which have at-
tracted considerable notice.
The names and biography of the Earls of Sutherland are ho-
nourably interwoven in the general history of the empire.. To
specify the many honourable actions and exertions of these
noblemen, in defence and for the liberties of their country, the ne-
cessary brevity of this account renders impossible.  But there
is one remarkable and interesting circumstance that may not be
omitted,-whicli is, that the line of succession down to the present
representative is direct, and uninterrupted, having the title of Su-
therland united to it.  Twice was there an attempt unavailingly
made to divert the succession from an heiress; first from the
Lady Elizabeth, daughter of John, the twelfth earl; and again,
from the present representative', who, by the almost simultaneous
and much lamented death of her noble parents, was in'early in-
fancy left an only child.  From such critical circumstances did the
Supreme Arbiter -of the Destinies of all deliver the present repre-
sentative of the house of Sutherland, and in her person the direct
line of succession,-to become still farther exalted, and to be com-
nected with the most noble, the most wealthy, and the most an-
cient families in the empire;
K6rstis profundo pulchrior evenit."
Family ofKilcalmkill. In the churchyard of this parish there is
a chapel, or inclosed place of sepulture, where repose many members
of the very old family of Kilcalmkill, or, according to a more recent
designation, of Carrol.  This family derives its descent from AA=
Gordon, Dean of Caithness, the first Earl of Huntly's second: son'
9
uncle of Adam Gordon, Lordof Aboyne, the second Earl of Hunt-
ly's son, who married the Countess Elizabeth, daughter of John,
the fourteenth Earl of Sutherland.  The representative of a main
branch of the Kilca1mbill family is Joseph Gordon, Esq.  W. S.
Edinburgh, who, it is understood, has a right to a bar6netage by
the death of the Rev.  Sir Adam Gordon,,Baronet, in whom a col-
lateral branch of the male line has terminated.
Family ofNovar.-Among the eminent 'persons connected with
this parish, by birth, must be noticed the late Sir H&tor. Munro of
N6var- SirHectorwasbornatClayside,inthis-parishinl727'and,
when 'about tw
enty years of age, entered the army. . Hewent'to
the East IndiesIa major in Morris's regiment. At the head of a
small f-rce, he defeated a large army commanded by a native
prince., at Buxar.
He was afterwards promoted to the rank of


