
                                KINGUSSIE.                             67

session of it; but we find John Comyn first noticed as Lord of Ba-
denocb as early as the reign of Alexander III.  This nobleman,
who was related to some of the former kings, laid claim to the crown
upon the death of Margaret in 1291, but soon after withdrew his
pretensions.  Being the superior lord of Scotland, he was summon-
ed by Edward 1. to serve in his wars in Gascony. * He was suc-
ceed.ed in his title and estates by his son, John, who was a brave
and patriotic nobleman, and chosen one of the guardians of Scot-
land about the year 1299.  From this period down to the year
1305, we meet with incidental notices of this heroic character in
his relation to Badenoch; but the principal scenes of his life lay
in the south.  In 1302, with the assistance of another,warrior, he
successfully repelled the En ish forces near Roslin; t an.d twor
years thereafter, he made  a last fruitless struggle for Scottish in-
dependence at Stirling; but was obliged to yield, along with his
country, to the overwhelming power of.  Edward 1. t In the suc-
ceeding year, he fell a victim to the relentless fury of Bruce, after-
wards KiDg, for having discovered to Edward the designs of the
former upon the crown of Scotland.  For about nine years after
Comyn's death, we find DO mention of a successor to his lands or
title.  According to Fordun, soon after Bruce ascended the throne
in 1306, he so weakened the influence, and reduced the numbers
of the family of Comyn, that the name became almost extinct in
the kulgdom.  In all probability, Badenoch, upon the murder of
its original owner, was taken possession of by Bruce, as we find it
noticed among the lands belonging to him in Moray, which he
erected into an earldom about the year 1314, and bestowed
upon his nephew, Thomas Randolph, under the title of Earl of
Moray.  In the hands of this nobleman, and his successors, it
seems to have continued till the year'1371, or thereabouts,'when
it became the property of the family of Stuart, which was nearly
allied to that of Bruce.  Robert II., tiie grandson of Robert Bruce,
and the first of the Stuarts who ascended the Scottish throne, con-
stituted his fourth son, Alexander, his lieutenant from the southern
boundaries of Moray to the Pentland Firth; 11 in whom the title of
Lord of Badenoch appears to have been first revived after Comyn's
death.  The ferocity of disposition, and predatory character of
Alexander, soon gained for him the appellation of the Wolf of
Badenoch.  He resided for the most part at his castle of Ruthven,
Ryiner, Foedera, ii. 643.         + Heiningford.
   + Trivet, 334; Ryley, 369.
    Survey of Province of Moray, p. 13. Robertson's Index, 118,


