
                  SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                   139

pies a place as near the door as possible, that it may be enriched.
with the general soiling.  And frequently before the door of the:
dwelling house can be reached, a passage must be made,through.
the byre.  For, the most part, the furniture is so arranged as to
form a but and a ben; but chimneys are little known.  Instead
of these, some houses have from two -to six holes in the roof to
admit light and allow the escape of smoke.  The better to pro-,
mote this latter, a piece of feal or divot, or two pieces 'of board
joined at right angles, called a skyle, is placed on -the weather
side of the bole; and instead of mounting on the -roof every time
the wind shifts, some have a pole reaching down inside, by which
this operation is performed.  The order for doing this is 11 skyle
th e 1 u M."
When an opening is1eft for a window, it is sometimes filled up
with a bladder, or untanned lambskin freed from the wool, stretched
on a frame.  In the but or kitchen end of - the house, in addition
to the family, there are usually two dogs, as many cats a patty
swine, a calf, and some half dozen of caddy lambs.
Value ofLand,. The Rev.  Patrick Barclay, in his account
of the parish, remarks, that 11 the superiors formerly bad many,
ways of procuring property in Shetland.  Patrick, Earl of Ork-
ney, in a disposition of the lands of Sand to Jerom Umphray,
narrates, that lie had evicted seven merks of that land from Powl
Nicholson in Cullswick for stealing a swine, and that be bad
evicted six merks from in Cullswick for stealing bolts
from his Lordship's trood,-probably some piece of wreck which
had been drawn into Cullswick.  In that same disposition, the
Earl grants receipt for the money from Jerom Umphray, at the,
rate of L. 17, 16s.  Scotch," L. 1, 9s. 8d.- Sterling, 11 per merk
la nd, being full land's -price at the time." The lands in Sand,
now rent at as much yearly per merk as the sum above specified
to have been their purchase-price in 1600.
About 1700, an island, with fifteen scores of sheep, was pur-
chased for the sum of L, 30 Sterling, the yearly rent of which iss
now about L. 60 Sterling.  In 1633, iin ox for slaughter cost
L. I ; a fat sheep from 2S. to 2s.  Gd.  In 1738, a lispund, or-
36 lbs. of meal, cost Is. 8d. ; a cow in calf, 17s. 6d. ; fee of pre-
cent-or and session-clerk, 10s. ;. officer, 5s. ; presbytery-officeri
Is. S& 1,746, dues of proclamation, 6d. ; making: a, grUve,

-Lambs wintered and fed in the house; a lamb whkh has lost its dam, and I&
reared on cow's milk, in alqo called a caddy.


