
252                   BERWICKSHIRE.

   There are five volumes of alphabetical indices to the above,
from 1615 to 1832.
   The record of the kirk-session commences in 1720, and is con-
tinued in two volumes to 1738; after which it is discontinued till
1797, when the present incumbent was ordained.- There are also a
record of deaths or rather funerals, and a record of marriages, com-
mencing at, and continued from, the above date, 1797.
   Antiquities. Edinshall.-Till within a recent period this parish
could boast, if the writer of the present article be not mistaken,
of possessing perhaps the only specimen of the architecture of the
first Saxon invaders of Britain, which has been preserved till mo-
dern times in the southern part of Scotland. Within these forty
years, the stones of this singular monument of antiquity were used
as materials for fences, and the foundations only can now be traced.
We shall describe, however, the building as it appeared before its
final demolition, and shall state the reasons for attributing it to the
era mentioned.
   The ruins referred to bear the name of Edinshall. They are
situated about a mile east from Abbey St Bathans on the northern
slope of Cockburn-Law, where this hill stretches into a terrace of
inconsiderable size, skirted by steep banks descending to the river
Whitadder, which is distant about 200 yards. The building was
circular, the outside diameter being 85 feet 10 inches, and the
walls 15 feet 10 inches thick: * The height of the walls, which,
in their ruinous state, was seven or eight feet, must originally have
been considerable, as appeared from the large quantity of mate-
rials rolled down the bank on which they stood, and lodging in the
area they enclosed. In the interior of the walls were open spaces,
having the appearance of separate cells, extending all round the
building, differing greatly in length, but all of the width of about
three feet, and presenting in some places an appearance of having
been arched over. The entrance was by a low narrow door on the
eastern side. No cement had been used in the building; but the
stones, which were of whin, and most of them very large, were fitted
with considerable accuracy to one another,-the concavity of the one

<FOOTNOTE>These dimensions were ascertained when the building was extant by Mr John
Blackadder,an accurate land-surveyor. In the descriptions of this ruin,contained in
the first Statistical Account and in Chalmers' Caledonia, which seem both to have
been copied from an article in the Scots Magazine for 1764, (Vol. xxvi. p. 431,) it
is said that the building consisted of three concentric circles. This, however, is a
mistake; for although two circles could be traced, in consequence of the walls having
been divided by the nearly continuous cells mentioned in the text, there was no third
interior wall.


