
156                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

districts of this parish.  But from this course they are generally
diverted by the Garleton-hills and Traprene Law; and then they
take either a southerly direction towards the hills of Lammermoor,
or a northerly direction by North Berwick Law to the Frith of
Forth.  Such is the general course of the western clouds about
the beginning of spring; and as the season advances, the quantity
of rain from the west is gradually lessened; so that, during the
summer and autumn, a west wind is a tolerable security for dry
weather.  An instance of this occurs at the moment of writin this
account.  In the forenoon and afternoon of this day, an unusually
large quantity of rain fell, the wind blowing with great violence
from the south and south-east; but towards evening, the wind has
veered round to the west; and at present, the sky, which but
lately was darkened with clouds and mist, is clear and serene.
   During winter, the wind in every point from the west round by
the north to the east occasionally brings snow or rain; but snow
seldom remains long on the ground.  For some years back, little
snow has fallen in this district; and it very seldom happens that
we have more than a week of what is called close weather.
   The spring in this part of the country is generally dry and cold,
especially when the wind blows from the east.  The cold, how-
ever, is by no means so intense as in many parishes in the immediate
neighbourhood of this,-which is owing in a great measure to the cir-
cular elevated ridge that surrounds the strath of Yester.  Occasionally
in spring, there are heavy showers of hail or rain from the north-
east.  During the whole of May, the winds generally blow from some
point to the north, with a bright sun, and a dry keen penetrating
air, which renders it a trying period to invalids.  Notwithstanding
this, however, the situation of the parish is remarkably healthy, the
air pure and invigorating, the climate generally mild, and "no par-
ticular distemper is prevalent."  At this period, the husbandman
endeavours to have his fallow, especially on strong land, lying un-
der a cross furrow and in large clods, which are dried so thorough-
ly by the east winds, that most of the rooted weeds enclosed in
them are withered and destroyed.
   The weather seldom sets in steadily mild before the end of June.
It is a proverbial expression, that the crops upon the clay and the
strong land do not often begin to "mend until the nights are turn-
ed,"  that is, till the summer heats commence.
   In summer and the beginning of autumn, the only rainy points
are the south and east.  Generally the wind sets in from these


