
20                             KINROSS-SHIRE.

  In connection with the town, it may be noticed that the Curling
Club of Kinross is of very ancient date. In 1818, a committee of
this club reported, that they had ascertained beyond a doubt that
"curling" had been practised, and the adjuncts, of a "court,"
regular mysteries and ceremonies, preserved entire, for at least 150
years previous to that period.
  Kinross, which is the only town in the parish, had once a weekly
market on Tuesday; but now it seems to be transferred to Milna-
thort, in the parish of Orwell, which is not two miles distant, and
holds every Wednesday. It is a post-town, where letters from the
south arrive every evening about 9, and every morning at the same
hour: and from the north at 2 A. M. and 4 P. M.
  For the gratuitous delivery of letters, for a branch of the British
Linen Bank, and for other conveniences and advantages, Kinross
stands indebted to the active and kind interference of Sir James
Montgomery.
  Turnpike Roads.-These, and particularly the great north road,
are in excellent order. They extend to sixteen miles.
  Public carriages running in the parish are three in number; one
of them is the Royal Mail from Edinburgh to Aberdeen; another
is the Defiance stagecoach, which has been employed for some
months past as a conveyer of letters from Edinburgh to the north;
the third coach is the Saxe Cobourg from Edinburgh for Perth.
Ere a second mail or a substitute for one was started, which was
only some months ago, the old one passing in the Sabbath morn-
ing betwixt two and three, and in the evening betwixt seven and
eight, gave little annoyance to the serious part of our community.
But the new mail, in its journeyings north and South, is viewed and
felt in a very different light. The Presbytery of Dunfermline, to
which Kinross parish belongs, has attempted, along with that of
Edinburgh and others, but hitherto without success, to remove this
Sabbath desecration. The consequence of no stop being put to
the running on the Lord's day has been melancholy. At first, the
new mail coach was, on Sabbath, generally empty. Now, there
is little, if any, difference in the number of its passengers on Sab-
bath, and the number on any other day.
  The bridges which connect Kinross parish with the parishes of
Orwell, Cleish, and Fossaway, together with those within itself,
of any considerable size, are 13 in number, all of stone, chiefly'
white freestone, and in good condition. The fences are, chiefly
of dry stone, something like the old Galloway dikes. There are
                                4


