
			PARISH OF MORTON.

	     PRESBYTERY OF PENPONT, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

		THE REV. DAVID SMITH, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

	Name, Boundaries.--MORTON, an Anglo-Saxon word, signi-
fies the stronghold or dwelling on the moor. On the north-west
extremity of an extensive moor, and at the bottom of a beau-
tiful green hill, from which it is separated by a deep glen, stands
the old castle or stronghold of Morton, from which the parish seems
to have taken its name.
	The boundaries and figure of the parish are very irregular. On
the north-west and west it is bounded by the parish of Duffisdeer,
from which it is separated by the Shielhouse rivulet and the river
Carron; on the south-west, by the river Nith, which divides it from
the parish of Penpont; with the exception of about 120 acres called
Morton-holm, lying on the south bank of that river; on the south-
east and east, by the united parishes of Closeburn and Dalgarno,
from which it is separated by the Cample; and on the north
and northwest, it is bounded by Crawford parish in Lanarkshire.
The march runs from the north-eastward along the waterfall of a
mountain called Glenleith. The extent of the parish from south to
north is about seven imperial miles, and its mean breadth about
four; and it contains about twenty-eight square miles.
	Topographical Appearances.--The external surface of this parish
is varied, being diversified by ridge and valley. Along the banks of
the rivers, especially the Nith and Cample, it is low and level, and the
soil rich and productive. To the north of the Nith, there is a con-
siderable ridge of rising ground, the soil of which is light, but kindly
and fertile, and lies on a gravelly bottom. On the most elevated part
of this ridge Thornhill is situated, a clean, healthy, and populous
village; through which the high roads from Dumfries and from Gal-
loway, by Minihive and Penpont, pass to Edinburgh and Glasgow, and
separate again to each of these cities at Carron-bridge, the boun-


