
    		      ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.                  1049

goat whey, or chalybeate water. The most of these visitors are
contented for exercise, with a walk along the shaded banks of the
river, while a few, more to brace their constitutions, may be seen
threading their way through heath and alpine forests, or scaling
crags and lofty hills, from whose summits may be seen the dense
smoke of Aberdeen, Montrose, &c. curling, in dark clouds on the
distant horizon.
         Hydrography.-The river Dee, which runs either along or
through the parish for fifteen miles, rises in the highest ground of
Britain, the mountains which separate Braemar from Badenoch ;
and, after a north-easterly course of nearly one hundred miles,
it falls into the German Ocean at Aberdeen.
	The Tanner, which rises from Mountkeen, the Allachy and
the Gairney, both issuing from the Firmonth and other hills of
the Grampian range, all flow for miles through the natural forest
of Glentanner, then unite in one body, and, after intersecting the
arable part of the strath in a north-easterly direction, fall into the
Dee on its right bank, about half a mile west of the church.
	The Feugh, which rises in the forest of Birse, waters the detach-
ed part of Aboyne, and empties itself into the Dee opposite to
Banchory-Ternan.
	The burn of Dinnet, which is the western boundary line on the
left bank of the Dee, is formed by the united streamlets disem-
bogued from lochs Kinord and Dawin, in the adjoining parishes
of Tullich and Logie-Coldstone.
	The burn which flows past, and forms a picturesque moat round
Aboyne Castle (also on the left bank of the Dee) bears different
names in its course through Cromar; and, after reaching the pa-
rish of Aboyne, is generally called the burn of Aboyne; but here
its ancient name was Allach. This name has been dropped, ex-
cept in one place, where a bridge over it near the castle is called
the Allach Bridge.
	The burn of Dess, which, on the same bank of the Dee, divides
the parish from the old barony of O'Neil on the east, flows about
a mile from the locb of Auchlossen into the river, and is remark-
able for a high and romantic cascade, called the Sloe of Dess.
	Several other streamlets in the parish, such as the Aultroy,
Aultdinny, Contullich Burn, the Rossachy, &c. might be men.
tioned.
	At some remote period, before the waters forced natural bar-


