
278                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

exposed in the trenching of a field in the immediate neighbour-
hood of Newfarm, above Smeaton, and many bones were also dis-
covered in them, in considerable preservation.*
   We may mention here, as a circumstance not generally known,
the name not being alluded to in the minute details either of Bir-
rel or Patten--that Sir William Cecil, afterwards the famous Lord
Burleigh, was present with his munificent patron Somerset, at the
battle of Musselburgh, on which occasion, says one of his biogra-
phers, he "was only saved from inevitable destruction by the ge-
nerous interposition of a friend, who pushed him out of the level of
a cannon, and had his own arm shattered by the ball, which must
otherwise have passed through Cecil's body."
   When levelling a bank at Pinkie-burn, about six years ago, im-
mediately to the east of the streamlet, the Rev. Mr Watson of
that place found great quantities of bones imbedded in the soil.
These seemed to be chiefly the bones of horses; and from the
principal scene of conflict having been in the How-Mire, imme-
diately to the east, the Scottish cavalry had retreated down the
precipitous banks of the streamlet, along which, as tradition re-
ports, so many perished, that its waters were tinctured with blood
for three days.
   Edgebucklin Brae, on which now stands the farmstead of Pinkie
Mains, is about half a mile within the eastern boundary of the pa-
rish of Inveresk. It is also the limit to the east which command-
ed the personal attendance of the Archer Guard of the Scottish
Kings, as Cramond Bridge was in the opposite direction.
Within a mile from the principal scene of action at the battle
of Pinkie, which, according to the detailed and circumstantial ac-
count of Patten, was "in the fallow feldes above Undreske," is si-
tuated the manor of Carberry.
   The house of Carberry is ancient, comparatively speaking, and
has all the marks of a baronial mansion; but its date is not ascer-
tained. That it existed long before the battle may be argued,
from the under storey being strongly arched, and lined with oak
pannelling. The division now used as a kitchen has all the ap-
pearance of a keep for the lodgment of prisoners. That it was a
considerable mansion-house in the sixteenth century is certain;
and was the property of Mr Hugh Rigg, an advocate, and distin-
guished public character at tbe time, who is mentioned in Knox's

<FOOTNOTE>was slain here. The inscription'bears, that his body was carried home to England
by his fellow soldiers, and there buried.
     Vide MS.
                                                     4


