
     Statistical Account

pressive countenances.  They are not only decently cloathed,
but many of them, such as the young trades people, genteel-
ly dressed, even more so than is usual with persons of the
same station elsewhere.  Few are known to complain of
wanting the necessaries of life; none, indeed, who are able
and willing to work, or who are not notorious spendthrifts.
A general spirit of discontent has never been known to prevail
among them, nor are any combinations formed, on account
of oppression, bad usage, or want of subsistance, for leaving
the country.  In the country part of the parish, their man-
ners are, in general, simple and virtuous, living in the habits
of sobriety and industry; and, though not many of them are
rich, yet they are contented with their situation, enjoying
the necessaries, and many of the comforts, of life.  We are
sorry we cannot give the same favourable report, at least
without many exceptions, of those in the town.  This is
chiefly owing to the unhappy influence of borough politics,
which, in a place like this, where the numbers are small,
draw almost every individual tradesman to act a part in them,
when a competition happens, which is often the case; thus
communicating the baneful habits of idleness, and a taste for
luxury and dissipation.  We have, however, the comfort to
add, that there are but few instances of any atrocious crimes.
For 20 years and upwards, there have been no murders com-
mitted, one or two child-murders excepted.  None have suf-
fered by the hand of the executioner, and only two by their
own.

<FOOTNOTE>

field of battle, which from Gib, the name of the King of
Norway's son; who, according to tradition, was slain there, still
retains the name of Gib's Croft.  This battle, in which Banquo
acted as general of the King's forces, Macbeth being absent ma-
king levies, was fought about the middle of the 11th century.
For the issue and consequences of the battle, and the artifice by
which the Danes are said to have been afterwards overthrown
near Perth, vide Buchanan, lib. 7 cap. 5. & 6.


