
                              WHITHORN.                       53

name of a river, as might be supposed from the narrow peninsular
country in which it is situated. There are three burns, each of
which turns a corn and barley-mill, where it falls into the sea. But
though there are no rivers and few burns, the parish is well watered
with innumerable perennial limpid rills, which are of the utmost
benefit to the comfort of the inhabitants, and the health and im-
provement of the cattle. There is a weak chalybeate spring at the
Isle of Whithorn, occasionally resorted to by invalids. The lakes
that were formerly in the parish have been drained and all of that
description that remains is a few mosses and marl pits.
	Meteorology.--The soil in this parish and district is, in general,
dry,--the air pure, mild, and temperate. Epidemic diseases and
malign`nt fevers are of rare occurrence. There has been no in-
stance of spasmodic cholera in this parish. Many of the inhabi-
tants attain the age of eighty years; a few ninety and upwards. The
medium temperatureof the atmosphere is about 48&deg;. The pre-
vailing winds are the south-west and west excepting in the spring
months, when the parish is frequently visited with, gales from the
east, which are extremely hurtful to vegetation. The heaviest
rains, are from the south, south-east, and south-west. The win-
ters for several years have been so extremely mild, that many black-
cattle have been wintered in the pastures without fodder. Frost
and snow have been of such rare occurrence, and of such short
continuance, that the children in Whithorn run the risk of becom-
ing as incredulous about the effect of cold upon water as the Em-
peror of China.
	Geology and MIneralogy.--The soil of a considerable portion
of this parish consists of a rich vegetable mould of no great depth,
but exceedingly fertile, affording the most succulent and nutritious
pasture and excellent crops, when there is a sufficiency of mois-
ture in the month of May. When there is a deficiency of mois-
ture at that season, the pastures are but scanty, and the crops light.
The most productive soil rests upon rock; where the subsoil is till,
The ground is less fertile, and the pastures and crops much later.
The rocks invariably dip to the west, and generally belong to the
greywacke series. There are no continued beds of granite, but
large detached blocks are met with here and there. The Shore
is everywhere rugged and rocky. At Burrowhead, the coast is
particularly bold, and the rocks, from their perpendicular height,
magnificent and sublime, rising to a height of 200 feet, and per-
forated here and there with deep caves. Trial has, been repeat-


