

                         PARISH OF KILCONQUHAR

                PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

               THE REV. WILLIAM FERRIE, D. D., MINISTER,

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATUILAL HISTORY.

Name.-CEAUNIUCHAIR and Kilconquhar are obviously Gaelic
words. CeaunsignifiesbLAeadpartal)ove,limit,extreMity,termina-
tion. luchair is a common name for a stream or river, especially a
stream which issues from a lake. Iuchair is also applied to a fresh-
water lake. Ceaun- luchair, without shifting one letter, signifies the
extreme end, or upper extremity of the fresh-water lake, or the head
or part above water. This is perfectly descriptive of the situation
of the church, and church-yard or burying-place of this parish. It
is an eminence on the edge, or at the hdad, of a freshwater lake.
The lake evidently at one time had covered all the low ground to
the north 'and west, as well as to the south of the eminence, on which
the church stands. Then, this eminence might very properly have'
been called the head of the lake, or part above water. Kil, as every
one knows, signifies a cell, a churchyard, or place of worship; Kil-!
conquhar therefore signifies the cell, the burying-place, or place
of worship at the head or extremity of the fresh water lake. On
this spot, in all I)robability, there was a Druidical place of worship
and a burying place, long before the introduction of Christianity.
When the old church was taken down in 1821, the foundation of
the oldest part of it was from twelve to fifteen feet below the sur-
face of the earth, although it was built on dry firm ground. Both
within and without the building, to,all this depth, immense quan--
tities of human bones were found. There can be little doubt that
this great accumulation of earth had arisen from the multitude of
human bodies that bad been interred here.
   Extent and Boundaries.-This parish extends in length from
Earlsferry on the south, to Bruntshields on the nortb, a distance of
about 9 miles.: Its average breadth is about 2 miles. It is boundi.-
ed on the south by the Frith of Fortl4 and the'parish of telie; on'
the east, by the parishes of Abercrombie or St Monance, and


