
     of Dundee.

by no means in number sufficient for the demands of the neigh-
bourhood, or for their own labour.  The market in Dundee,
for all kinds of butcher meat, is one of the best in Scotland*.
No sheep are bred, or even fattened for sale, except a few by
Mr. Guthrie of Craigie.  He has tried in his inclosures the
large south country breed, and endeavoured to introduce that
of Mr. Bakewell, with tolerable success.  The birds and qua-
drupeds, which are not domesticated, are the same that fre-
quent the other low country parishes near the sea, and seem to
require no particular enumeration.  No part of the parish is
subject to inundations, except the bottom where Fiethy and
Dighty join; but no considerable damage is done, either to
the grounds, or to the crops upon them; and though the
equinoctial tides sometimes rise high, they have not, in any
person's memory, been hurtful.

   Climate and Diseases.-No part of the parish can be called
unhealthy.  The higher and west part of the town of Dun-
dee, and the whole ridge, on which the principal additions to
it have been built, is naturally as healthy a situation, (from its
gravelly bottom, the constant current of the tides, and its ex-
posure to the S. W. winds,) as, perhaps, any in the world.  E-
ven the suburbs to the N. E. though on a bottom of till, are
healthy, for the declivity of the situation prevents all stagna-
tion of water.  The low grounds behind the town are, in-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The veal, in particular, has of late years become excellent, in consequence
of an improvement introduced, by a gentleman in the neighbourhood, in the
management of the calves.  Instead of confining them in low, dirty, and open,
stalls, they are placed in boxes raised some feet above the ground, by which
means they are more easily kept clean, warm, and dry, and care is also taken
by giving a cover to every box, to exclude the light.  In consequence of these
and some other attentions, the veal equals, if not excells, the best produced
England.


