
<APPENDIX>

xlv

     No. II.  The First General Circular Letter, written in M. S. to the deficient
             Clergy, July 1793.

   SIR,

   I have the pleasure to inform you, that the eighth and ninth volumes of
the Statistical Account of Scotland, are just published; that the tenth is
in considerable forwardness, and that the remaining volumes, are ordered to
be begun.
   The deficient parishes are now so much reduced in number, that I can at
last address every Clergyman, who has not as yet favoured me with an ac-
count of his parish, by a letter in M. S. instead of a printed application.  I
am extremely anxious, on every account that can possibly have any influ-
ence on the mind of an Author or of a Citizen, to have this great and la-
borious undertaking over; and I am persuaded, that you would not wish to
be considered as disinclined to contribute you aid to a Work, which is so
strongly recommended, by the inclosed unanimous vote, of the venerable
General Assembly.  If, however, you are prevented by sickness, or other-
wise, from sending the account yourself, I will trouble you to point out any
other channel for procuring it, as speedily as possible, as it would be a dis-
grace to the Country, to have a Work, in which the national character is
now so much concerned, too tedious in being brought to a conclusion, or
to any respect defective.  The establishment of a Board of Agriculture, and
Internal Improvement, (which would never have taken place had it not
been for this inquiry), is a sufficient proof, of the many important conse-
quences, of which it may be productive.-Expecting the favour of an an-
swer in course, that I may take the necessary measures accordingly, in case-
an application to any other person should be requisite.  I remain, with
esteem, Sir, your humble and obedient servant.

     JOHN SINCLAIR.

   N. B. The answer to this letter, or any Statistical information, in packets
under two ounces, from this date, till the 1st of August, may be addressed
to me at Whitehall, London; and, from that time, to the 1st of September,
(when at farthest all the necessary materials, I have no doubt, will be col-
lected), may be transmitted to Edinburgh.  The whole Work will be pub-
lished about Christmas next, which, though not quite so early as could
have been wished for, yet, on the whole, will do no discredit to the parties
interested in this important Publication.


