
                                BOHARM.            363

   fir seems to rejoice in the soil and climate, and soon becomes
   very valuable, and the spread of it here seerns likely, at no distant
   date, if the ground be properly protected from sheep and cattle,
   to cover the whole western face of Benagen, even to the summit,
   and make it, indeed, a fine object in the scenery of the country.
   The larch, here, too, thrives admirably, as indeed does every spe-
   cies of wood usually grown in Scotland.   There are three beech
   trees in the garden of great size.   One of them presents a noble
   pillar in its stem, 17 feet high from the ground, clear of branches,
   and of a uniform chrcumference of 11 feet 8 inches, for the whole
   of this height.  A sweet chestnut, also in the garden, has a stem
   of 13 feet Iong, and 1.2 feet round.  A birch, near the house,
   has a circumference of 7 feet, at six feet from the ground.
	Further down the river, on the estate of Cairnty, in the angle
   between the Orchil and the Spey, natural oak and birch cover a
   considerable extent, and the glen of the Orchil, and the lateral
   ravines, are thickets of birch.   Were this glen inclosed, and
   planted with oak, &c., it would, at very little loss to the tenants
   of the pasture, soon become of immense value to the proprietor.
   Here, too, soffie plantations of Scotch fir and larch were made
   about thirty years ago, alone, the river, which have of late been
   largely augmented, all in the most thriving state.
	In the valley of Bobarm, there is, in the tipper end, a consider-
   able quantity of natural birch, alder, mountain-ash and geen,
   among which, the late proprietor intermixed a large quantity of
   ash and elm, which have thriven excellently ; and lower down,
   Mr Steuart of Auchlunkart has around his mansion-house a
   most ornamental plantation, of upwards of eighty Scotch acres of
   hard wood, with a proportion of larches and spruces, which are
   gradually thinned out.  Ash, oak, elm, beech, &c. &c. thrive
   here remarkably wells and have already got up to be trees of con-
   siderable size, where, only thirty-five years ago, there was little
   besides rows of ash and plane-tree round the oldgarden.  Mr Steu-
   art has, however, taken great pains wine this plantation, great part
   of the ground having been trenched for it, limed, and sown out with
   natural grasses.  Mr Steuart has also planted, on his hills and moors,
   in this parish, to the extent of 300 Scotch acres and upwards, Scotch
   fir, and larches, greatly to the ornament of the country.  The Scotch
   fir here does not thrive so well as on Spey-side, and it is gradually
   thinned out to give room for the larches, which get on admirably.


