
			CRAIG.                               249

the sea-shore and to maritime cliffs, as well as those found on the,
banks of rivers, and in hilly, woody, and marshy places. The
principal habitats of the rare plants are the steep banks close to
the sea at Dunninald and Usan, the woods of Dunninald, Rossie,
Mountboy, Fullarton,*/f and the loch at Holemill.
   On the sea shore, and in the marshy places near it, besides
various species of Atriplex, Arenaria, Salicornia, Glaux, Erodium,
Cakile, and Aster, we have in abundance the Scirpus maritimus,
Triglochin maritimum, Sagina maritima, Ligusticum Scoticum,
Lithospermum maritimum, and the Elymus arenarius; which last,
along with the Triticum junceum, Ammophila arundinacea, Carex
vulpina and arenaria, is useful in binding together the loose sand
along the coast.
   On the sloping rocky banks and the red sandstone cliffs at
Dunninald and Usan, we meet with many rare plants. Among
these may be enumerated the Astragalus glycyphyllus, Carlina vul-
garis, Campanula glomerata, and Artemisia, maritima, which are
all very abundant. In the same situation are found the fragrant
Origanum or marjoram, and the aromatic Clinopodium, the Solidago
virgaurea, the Oxytropis uralensis, the Gentiana campestris, the
beautiful blue Geranium pratense, the fine blood-red Geranium
sanguineum, and, not far from the Dunninald cliffs, the elegant
Campanula rapunculoides.
   In the woods, fields, and by the road-sides generally, in addi-
tion to the usual plants, we find the Chelidonium majus, Pyrethrum
Parthenium, Radiola millegrana, Pyrola media, Solanum dul-
camara, Verbascum Thapsus, Anchusa sempervirens, Cynoglossum
officinale, Echium vulqare, Dipsacus sylvestris, Doronicum Parda-
lianches ; various species of mallow, especially the Malva moschata;
several Gnaphalia, and the Dianthus deltoides, which is met with
in great abundance on the porphyry rocks. In a glen +/f bordering
on the parish, there is a profusion of the Altropa belladonna, the
dark-purple shining berries of which, from their attractive ap-
pearance, have so often proved fatal to children.
   In the lakes and marshes, the chief plants deserving notice are,
the beautiful white water-lily, or Nymphea alba ; the yellow spe-
cies, or the Nuphar lutea; the Menyanthes trifoliata, or elegant
buck-bean; the Potamogeton pusillus, gramineus, and pectinatus ;

<FOOTNOTE>Fullarton is within the parish of Marytown, but touches the north-west boundary
of Craig.
          The glen of Bonnyton, in the parish of Marytown.


