
558                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

coal alone is used, brought from Aberdeen.  The price, according
to the supply there, varies from 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d., and the carriage
is from 5s. to 7s. per boll.

                MISCELLANIEOUS OBSERtVATIONS.
   Few parishes have undergone a greater change within the last
forty years than Strathdon.  The vast improvement of the coun-
try, by reclaiming and planting of waste lands; the drainage and
enclosure of fields, and general introduction of the improved sys-
tem of husbandry; the opening up of the strath by a turnpike
road running through the centre of the parish; and the formation
of good cross-roads, with stone bridges over the different streams;
the elegant and commodious residences of the proprietors; and
the comfortable slated dwelling-houses and substantial farm-offices
of the tenantry, are some of the more obvious marks of the pro-
gress of cultivation.
   In the comparative state of the parish since the former Account
was given, there are some remarkable differences.  The real rent
was then about L. 1600, now it is between L. 4000 and L. 5000.
The old Account, speaking of improvements, states, " this practice
(carrying out manure in creels) is still continued by almost all
the tenants above the kirk, where two-thirds of the parish as to
extent are situated.  In the lower part of it, however, there are now
upwards of fifty carts.  One of the gentlemen keeps a carriage."
There are at the present day 309 carts in the parish, and, with
one exception, every proprietor keeps a carriage.  On the other
hand, the numbers of live-stock are singularly coincident.  Then,
there were 8543 sheep,-now there are 8664; then, there were
2286 cattle,-now there are 2115.  The number of horses, how-
ever, was greatly more numerous, being 552, and now only 314.
But the former Account says, " the ploughs are drawn some by 8,
some by 10, and some by 12 cattle; some by cattle and horses
before them, and a great many by horses alone. All the tenants
in Corgarff, and some in the other parts of the parish, yoke four
horses abreast."  Now, the horses are of a superior description, do
vastly more work than all the formidable array here described,
and, except for subsoil ploughing, there are never more than two
in a plough.
   Such are some of the more striking variations betwixt the pre-
sent state of the parish and that which existed at the time of the
last Statistical Account; but what its capabilities may be for still
                                4


