
                           BLAIR-ATHOLL.                          561

walks, and the continually increasing interest which every successive
step excites, are objects with which the numerous visitors of the
scene are powerfully struck. The merit of its wooded banks is ge-
nerally ascribed to "Burns' Petition:" it may with much greater
justice be ascribed to the Noble proprietor.
   One peculiar fall, and a rapid turbulent stream, confined by
shelving and rugged rocks, form the cataract of the Garry. The
banks were enclosed, planted, and ornamented about ten years ago
only, by the late Duke of Atholl. *
   Climate.-In 1836, Fahrenheit's thermometer ranged from 18&deg;
to 75&deg;.  The climate is dry, which may be inferred from the cen-
trical situation of the country, it being equhdistant from the Ger-
man and Atlantic oceans. Rain comes with an east or south-east
wind, which, on account of the intervening hills, loses much of its
humidity before it reaches the vale of the Garry. The climate is
also cold, which its elevation must indicate. The north wind
blows with phercing keenness; and frosty dews are frequent in the
beginning of sumuner and in autumn. Rheumatic and inflamma-
tory diseases are the prevailing distempers; and fevers are occa-
sionally introduced from the low country. The great age to which
many of the people live attests, however, that the climate is salu-
brious. The oldest man in the parish at present is ninety-seven
years of age. He is in the full possession of all his faculties; and
other five persons are alive who are about ninety years of age.
   Geology.-Glentilt has been the scene and subject of much
geological discussion. Playfair, Macknight, M'Culloch, &c. have
contributed to its celebrity in that department of science.
   Marble of various shades was discovered in Glentilt about twenty
years ago. It is found of a light gray and pure white, but the
green is the one most prized. The late Duke of Atholl worked
the quarry with that vigour and spirit which characterized all his
undertakings. The green marble found its way to the principal
towns of Britain, and is now frequently met with as mantel-pieces,
&c. in many modern mansions.
   The great limestone vein which commences in the south-west
at Leney, near Callander, runs through the parish, and terminates
its course north-east at Braemar. The hills of the country abound
it moss, which, when dried, produces black h`rd peat. The

<FOOTNOTE>The Falls of the Fendar also cannot fail to be appreciated by the tourist. A
minute description of the scenery of the parish in this Account is avoided as unne-
cessary, for every traveller can so easily furnish himself with a copy of the late Dr
Macculloch's correct and ample guide upon the subject. Published in 1823.
   PERTH.                                 N n


