
                           ABERFOYLE.                        1151

     of them exceeding a mile in length and a quarter of a mile in
     breadth.  They are, in fact, mere strips of land recovered from
     heath, and which, if allowed to remain for a few years uncultivated,
     would be covered with heath again.
       Climate, &c.-The climate of Aberfoyle, though rainy, on ac-
     count of the vicinity of the mountains, is upon the whole healthy.
     That part of Aberfoyle where the manse and church are situat-
     ed, is only about forty-five feet above the Frith of Forth at Stir-
     ling; and being completely sheltered by hills on every side, the
     climate is mild and warm.  In summer, the thermometer is fre-
     quently known to rise to 80&deg; in the shade, and has been seen even
     as high as 84.
       Hydrography.--There are five lakes in Aberfoyle, of conside-
     rable extent,--Loch Katrine, Loch-ard, Loch Con, Loch Au-
     chray, and Loch Drunky.   The first of these, which runs into
     Buchanan parish, at its western extremity, and extends to Callan-
     der parish on the north, is about nine miles in length, and one in
     breadth.  It was stated some years ago, in an Edinburgh newspa-
     per, that a party of scientific men had visited three of the Scottish
     lakes,--Loch Lomond, Loch Tay, and Loch Katrine, for the pur-
     poses of sounding and ascertaining the temperature of the water at
     different depths.  According to this statement, the deepest part of
     Loch Katrine is about the middle, nearly opposite to the farm of
     Letter.  The lead is here said to have struck the grnund at seven-
     ty-eight fathoms from the surface, the thermometer showing forty-
     one degrees by the register, the surface being sixty-three.  Only
     small portions of this lake have ever been known to freeze,
       Loch-ard is next in extent, being four miles in length, and one
     in breadth.  No measurement of its depth has been taken, but that
     it does not reach to that of the former, appears from the circum-
     stance, that in severe winters it is so completely frozen, that not
     only is it frequently crossed over, but heavy loads of fuel are carried
     on the ice from south to north. Loch-con, which lies farther to the
     west, is two miles and a half in length, and three-quarters of a mile
     in breadth.  It lies immediately under high and precipitous hills,
     and appears to be of considerable depth.  It is seldom known to
     freeze completely over.  Loch-Auchray and Loch Drunky ,which
     are each about two miles in length and half a mile in breadth, are
     of inconsiderable depth, and consequently soon affected by frost:
       The river Forth has its rise at the western extremity of this pa-
     rish,--at a place called in the Garlic language Skid-n'air, or the


