
			REDGORTON.                       175

newed on somewhat different ground, when Hay leading some of
the clans down a deep ravine, took the Danes in flank and rear,
which threw them into confusion.  At this critical moment again,
another circumstance occurred which completed their disorder. A
great shout was raised by a number of grooms, and a rustic crowd
of peasants, * which appeared to the Danes to be a new army, and
increased their panic. The fortune of the day was now, therefore,
entirely changed, and the Danes were routed with such prodigious
slaughter, that those who escaped the sword perished in the river.
A despairing effort was, however, made to save their commander's
life, by defending an eminence close to the banks of the river; but
all their efforts were unavailing. For here the Danish General,
according to Fordun, the King himself, was slain; + and the stone
mentioned above, which yet retains the name of Denmark, still
marks the spot of his fall.
   Such was the celebrated battle of Luncarty, which, having been
turned from defeat to victnry, by the undaunted valour and success-
ful conduct of one man and his sons, laid the foundation of the for-
tune of the family of Hay, which includes in it the three earldoms
of Errol, Tweeddale, and Kinnoull.
   After this complete victory, the King wishing to march in tri-
umph into Perth, directed that splendid robes should be brought
for the gallant Hay and his sons, that they might make a suitable
appearance, but he refused to put them on; and, having only wash-
ed off the dust, and marching into the town, dressed in his every-day
garments, and carrying the yoke with which he bad done such ser-
vice over his shoulder, he fixed the eyes of all men upon him, and
received the whole credit of the fortune of the day. + An assem-
bly of states having been held shortly after, at Scone, it was there
decreed to give the valiant Hay his choice of the Greyhound's
course or the Falcon's flight, as a suitable reward for having deli-
vered his country from so formidable an enemy.  Hay having
chosen the Falcon's flight, the noble bird was unhooded on the top
of a hill in the vicinity of the city, and stooped not in his flight till

<FOOTNOTE>Ad hanc Danorum trepidationem agasones, et imbellis agrestium turba sublato
clamore speciem novi exercitus praebuere. Id. loc. cit.
    In illo admirabili bello de Luncardy ubi Norica gens una cum suo rege totali-
ter perierunt.  Ford.  Scotichron.  Lib. x. Cap. 16.
    Haius ad Regem prgductus-splendidas vestes sibi et filiis oblatas, ut inspec-
tiores Bertham ingrederentur, renuit; ac tantum absterso pulvere, quotidiano ami-
culo indutus, jugumque quo erat in praelio usus, ferens-multis ad novo generis spec-
taculum accurrentious urbem ingreditur: omniumque ora et oculos in se unum con-
vertit: ac solus prope omnem illius diei celebritatem tulit. Buch. Lib. 6, 5, 33.


