
                          PITSLIGO.                      403

Glasgow, and return home before the commencement of the her-
ring-fishing, bringing along with them a cargo of coals.
  The rocky shore of Pitsligo does not supply the whole quantity
of bait required bv the fishermen ; but the deficiency is made up
by what is procured from Tain, Dundee, or elsewhere along the
coast.  The fishermen in Rosehearty pay the superior of the burgh,
John Duff Dingwall, Esq. of Brucklaw and Corsindae, L.1 per
man for the privilege of landing their fish, gathering bait and bed-
ding their muscles.  At Pittulie the fishermen pay L. 1, 5s. for
the same privileges.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The parish is intersected in the
centre by the Old Banff road and the Strichen road, the former
running from east to west from Fraserburgh to Banff, the latter
from north to south, leading from Rosehearty to Strichen, which
divide the parish into four nearly equal parts.  The parish is
otherwise well accommodated with roads; and a turnpike line lead-
ing from Fraserburgh to Banff winds its way through the south-
east corner, skirting as it were about two miles and a half of its
boundary, and is of great importance to that side of the parish.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands in the very
centre of the parish, where the Strichen and old Banff roads in-
tersect each other.  It was built in the year 1634, and is at pre-
sent in good repair, having been lately tastefully embellished.
The church spire, and the carved work in the aisle, are much
admired.
   The land north of the church slopes to the sea, in a fall of
about 300 feet, from which circumstance the church is seen at
a great distance, and hence it is sometimes called "The Vi-
sible Kirk," as well as "Cant's Kirk," from the distinguished
individual of that name who was the first minister, and whose
likeness, carved in stone, with his initials, is seen on the east
end, outside.  The church is said to be seated for 504, but
it will hold, including the aisle, when crowded closely together,
fully 600.  The number of communicants on the parish roll is
550, and at all times the church is well attended.  The manse was
built about seventy years ago, and was last repaired in 1836.  The
glebe extends to about 10 acres, exclusive of the garden and ground
in front of the manse, and if let would rent probably about L.18
per annum, being enclosed.  The stipend is paid partly in money,


