
			PENNINGHAME.                      175

ly defended the soundness of his views, and at the same time, en-
deavoured to prove that these views were not hostile to, or incompa-
tible with, the doctrine taught in the Confession of Faith. Ulti-
mately, however, for the sake of peace, and finding that farther
contention might lead to results not very agreeable to himself, he
was induced to make such an explanation and apology as were sa-
tisfactory to the synod of Glasgow and Ayr, before which court
the case was at the time undergoing trial. It may be mentioned
that no question, agitated in modern times before our eccle-
siastical courts, ever exchted so intense and general an interest
as that of which we have been speaking. The "Essay" in ques-
tion was the only large work of which Dr M'Gill was the author;
but he published several detached sermons; and contributed two
excellent discourses to ne Scotch Preacher. He died in 1807, in
the seventy-sixth year of his age.
	The late Rev. William Macartney, minister of Old Kirkpatrick,
in the presbytery of Dunbarton, was born at Mains of Penninghame
in 1762. His father rented that farm, and carried on at the same
time the business of a corn-miller. Mr Macartney, who was an emi-
nent classical scholar, as well as asuperior man in other respects, pub-
lished in 1798 the best translation that has yet appeared.of Cicero
de Officiis. He accompanied hir translation with copious notes,
which, however, are rather ethical and biographical than critical.
He died in 1828. (Murray's Literary History of Galloway.)
Mr Macartney had a brother, not less eminent than himself, but
in a different department of life, namely, the late Mr Alexander
Macartney, long Manager of the Commercial Banking Company
of Scotland,-a-gentleman whose knowledge as to the science of
money and of banking subjects generally, was inferior to that of
no individual of his time. He died in the month of Ddcember
1838, in the seventy-recond year of his age.
        Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, the Earl of Gal-
loway and James Blair, Esq. who possess about sixteen-seven-
teenths of the parish, in valuation.
        Parochial Registers.-Parochial registers of births, baptisms,
and proclamations for marriages with the exception of a short pe-
riod in last century, have been kept with considerable regularity.
The oldest entry is 17th October 1696. The records extend to
six volumes of different sizes, and these volumes contain a full
and distinct state of the receipts and disbursements of the parish


