
316                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners in the parish are, James
Tytler, Esq. of Woodhouselee, patron of the parish; John Trot-
ter, Esq. of Castlelaw; William Child, Esq. of Glencorse; Har-
ry M. Inglis, Esq. of Loganbank; Major Wilkie of Easter Bush;
all of whom have residences in the parish. There are, besides, se-
veral other smaller proprietors.
   Eminent Characters.-The late William Tytler, Esq. author of
the Enquiry into the Evidence against Mary Queen of Scots, and
his son, the Honourable Lord Woodhouselee, one of the Senators
of the College of Justice, and one of the Lords Commissioners of
Justiciary in Scotland, author of the Life of Lord Kames, and
other works of great literary merit, resided during summer at Wood-
houselee. Patrick Fraser Tytler, Esq. Advocate, youngest son of
Lord Woodhouselee, whose History of Scotland is so justly cele-
brated, spent his boyhood there.
   The late Rev. Dr Inglis, author of the Vindication of Eccle-
siastical Establishments, &c. and a distinguished leader in the
Church of Scotland, had a property in this parish, where for
more than twenty years he and his family resided, during the sum-
mer season.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest parish record is
1643, where it is stated that "this day, Aprille 21, 1643, Mr Ro-
bert Alisone was chosen to be the minr. at Glencorsse by the una-
nimous consent of elders, heritors, and people."
   October 16, 1643.-"This day, Mr Robertt, Alisone received
ordination by imposition of the hands of the Presbytrie, in the kirk
of Glencorsse."
   The registers of collections and disbursements begin in Novem-
ber 1691, and continue regularly in different volumes to the pre-
sent day.
   The registers of proclamations, marriages, baptisms, and deaths,
begin in 1672, and are continued with some slight interruptions to
the present time.
   The different, volumes of which the parish record consists, are,
upon the whole in a good state of preservation, and were all late-
ly rebound.
   It is astonishing to see how much money was raised by paro-
chial collections and subscriptions for various purposes, altogether
unconnected with the parish. The session seems not only to have
provided for the wants of their own poor, but to have extended
their parochial contributions to various benevolent purposes in Scot-
land, England, and Ireland, and even in various parts of Europe.


