
                         SCONE.                                       1047

      tremely poisonous.  But in other countries of Europe it is different.
      -Vid.  Art.  Agaricus, Vol. i. P. Cyclop.
      There are extensive plantations on the same estate, belonging
      to the Earl of Mansfield, consisting chiefly of oak, larch, Scotch fir,
      and various sorts of useful and ornamental trees.  And in other
      parts of the parish, there is a considerable quantity of larch, and
      also hard-wood of various kinds.


                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Scone is well known to have early obtained historical import-
      ance.   It received, it would appear, the title of the "Royal
      city of Scone," so early as A. D. 906, or A. D. 909; by another
      calculation, the Pictish Chronicle informs us that Constantine,
      the son of Ed, and Kellach the bishop, together with the Scots,
      soldmnly vowed to "observe the laws and discipline of faith, the
      rights of the churches and of the Gospel, on the Hill of Credu-
      lity near the Royal city of Scoan (Scone.)"   "Here," it has been
      remarked, "we have an account, not only of a very early nation-
      al council, but of one that may be reckoned a council of Culdees.
      The very language in which the result of their meeting is expres-
      sed, indicates a very different spirit from that which characterized
      the generality of subsequent councils.   We hear nothing of the
      authority of the pope or of bishops.  The laws and discipline of
      faith, the rights of the churches and of the Gospel, is a style of
      writing peculiar to an age comparatively unadulterated."
        If the Stone of Destiny was transferred by Kenneth Mac Al-
      pine from Dunstaffnage, in Argyleshire, to Scone in A. D. 838, we
      may see a reason for the title of "Royal city of Scone," which
      seems to have been acquired before the meeting of the ecciesias-
      tical council. One of the most memorable of the combats with
      the Danes was fought at Collin near Scone, in the time of Donald
      IV., the son of Constantine II., for the possession of this stone.
      This must have been previous to A. D. 904, in which year Donald
      fell in battle `t Forteviot. It is said that a religious house was es-
      tablished at Scone when the stone was transferred by Kenneth
      Macalpine.  There seems no doubt that there was a foundation of
      Culdees at this place before the reign of Alexander I. We might
      indeed infer this from the circumstance, that the church of Scone
      at that early period was dedicated to the Holy Trinity. the esta-
      blished mode of dedication with this religious body.  We learn,
      from the "Chronicle of Mailros," that in 1115 the church of
      Scone was delivered up to canons regular, who deprived the Cul-




