
     Statistical Account

distibuting the money, L. 2.  As collector of the statute-
money, he receives L. 1, 10 s.; his perquisites for register-
ing marriages, births, and burials, are, on an average,
L. 1, 10 s. and school-wages L. 5, 10 s.; so that the whole 
amounts to L. 17 : 3 : 5 1/2, besides a small house and garden.
This, though by no means one of the worst livings of the 
kind, never can be an object to a man who has got anything
like a liberal education.  To one who is only tolerably well
informed, or at all qualified to be useful, and who must dress,
and is supposed to live a little above the common rate, it is 
only a sort of genteel starving.  The average number of 
scholars is 30, and the small pittance which is drawn mere-
ly as school-fees, is indeed striking.  But we shall cease to 
wonder, when it is observed, that although the wages of the 
very lowest of his employers have been doubled, and in 
many instances tripled, those of the schoolmaster have not 
been altered for a century*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Here the see for teaching to read English is 14 d.; for reading and 
writing 18 d.; and for reading, writing, and arithmetick, 25, a quarter.
And even such trifles are in many cases but ill paid.  Sensible of the dis-
advantages under which be labours, the session a few years ago, in order
to take the odium off their schoolmaster, who in some measure must de-
pend on the good opinion of the public, took upon themselves to regu-
late the shool-fees, which they ordered to be raised considerably, and 
paid at entry.  But the object of their attention, upon the people remon-
strating, and threatening to send their children elfewhre, either wanted
the resolution or the power to give effect to the well-meant scheme of his
intended benefactors.  Such a measure, indeed, could not then have 
been adopted with advantate, unless similar resolutions had been entered 
into by all the teachers in the neighbourhood.  But in this point of view 
schoolmaster only share the sate of other annuitants, who must always 
suffer by the prosperity of their country, and whose situation hath been
so feelingly described by many who have contributed to this important
work.


