
                       CARNWATH.                         85

   The number of uninhabited houses arises from the breaking up
of the Wilsontown iron-works, which, though begun again, are
carried on upon a very different scale.

                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-According to Forrest's map,
there are 25193 acres Scotch measure in the parish.  Of these
not more than one-third are in cultivation.

The number of Scotch acres which remain constantly uncultivated,     -     12000
That might be cultivated with a profitable application of capital, though a
   great outlay of money would be required, probably       -          -     4400
In undivided common,    -       -        -        -       -        -          70
Under wood,     -     -          -        -         -         -       -      400

   Husbandry.-Irrigation is carried on to a considerable extent in
many parts of the parish, though in very few scientifically,-most
of the farmers and proprietors seeming to imagine that there is no
difficulty in laying out and managing a water meadow.  The general
duration of leases is nineteen years.  The state of farm-buildings
is improving: the byre, the stable, and the barn all seem to oc-
cupy the chief attention in rearing a steading in this country; and
though on the estate of Carnwath there are now a number of ex-
cellent dwelling-houses, yet, generally, the accommodation of the
farmer's family seems to have been only a secondary consideration.
   The systems of agriculture pursued in the parish are different
in different situations.  On one side there is strong and wet clay,
and on another a light gravelly soil; in one part a deep black
loam, and in another little else but moss.  The same rotation,
therefore, and the same mode of management cannot be pursued.
From Dippool, a small rivulet which divides the parish into nearly
equal portions, to the north boundary, clay and moss generally
prevail; and though great improvements have been made on both,
the close retentive bottom of the one, and the immense depth of
the other, baffle the attempts of the husbandman.  South from
Dippool to the Clyde and Medwin, the soil and climate are very
different; and though there are in this part also immense fields of
moss, yet the most approved systems of agriculture are generally fol-
lowed.  Little wheat is, indeed, sown, but there is 4 great extent of
turnips and potatoes, barley and oats, hay and pasture on every farm.
   The rotation followed in this part of the parish is generally as
follows :-1st, Oats after hay, or two years' pasture.  2d, Turnips
or potatoes, the turnips either shawed and rooted, and carried
home to the feeding stock and cows, or ate off by sheep.  3d Bar-
ley or oats, sown down with grasses of various kinds, viz. ryegrass,
red, white, and yellow clover.  The four-course shift, as it has


