
                         NEWBATTLE.                           65

ed than by stating the breadth of the Mid-Lothian mineral field,
as resolving itself into two hills or wings; the one resting north-
ward on the old red sandstone of the Craigmillar range; and
that again on the secondary rocks of the Salisbury Crag. The
foot of its base southward, rests at the river South Esk, where the
other commences, rising upwards to its summit, the Roman camp,
and descending downwards again to the foot of its base, at the river
Tyne. Beyond Ford, it will again be found resting on the old red
sandstone, and that on the greywacke, amygdaloid, and porphyry
of the Moorfoot range, in which range no granite or primitive
rocks are found.
   Mineralogy.-The minerals of Newbattle parish comprise about
one-half of that breadth, viz. from the river South Esk at New-
mills, to near the Tyne at Ford; and the position of this part
of the mineral field may be represented as a great cone of from ten
to twelve miles round the base, and whose apex is the Roman
camp. The base of the hill will everywhere be found to be
the magnesian limestone, with the coal and its concomitants com-
pletely encirelingit; and everywhere bursting or cropping out towards
its apex, and dipping towards the valleys, at an angle varying from
15ø to 30ø. Rising at such an acute angle, it is generally found
that the coal concomitants are thrown off before they reach the
summit of the hill, and the limestone base appears; and with such
a sharp dip to the valley at Newmills, the foot of the base, the
coal and its concomitants, would be 2400 feet, at least, in thick-
ness, in intersecting which from thirty to forty working seams of
coal would be cut through, varying from eighteen inches to eight
feet in thickness. From this it appears that the parish of New-
battle, for extent of minerals, will be found to equal, if not to surpass,
any parish in Scotland. The coal concomitants consist of little
variety, and are an alternation of sandstone, red and white, of dif-
ferent texture and hardness, grey faikes, or slaty limestone, slate
clay, sometimes with ironstone bands and balls of undefined tex-
ture and quality; indurated clay, &c. The dikes, fissures, and
dislocations are of pretty frequent occurrence, and in some cases
of formidable dimensions, disjointing the strata up and down, some
forty, some twelve, some six, and some five fathoms, although,
upon the whole, it may be said to be a clean field.
   Fossils.-Fossil remains both of plants and animals abound in
great variety and profusion. The vegetable fassil remains have
   EDINBURGH.                             3


