
			             PARISH OF MAYBOLE.
                        PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.
			       THE REV. GEORGE GRAY, MINISTER.

		       	I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

	Name.--THE derivation of the name of the town and parish of
Maybole, in the former Statistical Account, from Maypole, must
be regarded as purely fanciful. Chalmers, in his Caledonia, says,
that the earliest notice of the name is in a charter of Henry III.,
in Hearne's Liber Niger, viz. "in 1192, Duncan, the son of Gil-
bert di Galiveia, gave to God and St Mary, of Maelros a certain
piece of land in Carrie, named Maybotbel." And be suggests in
consequence an Anglo-Saxon derivation, from the common "bottle"
or "bothel" signifying a house, farm, or village, and "May," which
may either be considered the name of a person, or a derivative
from the word signifying a kinsman. And in support of this in-
terpretation, "the dwelling of the kinsman," it may be alleged that
several names and usages of this district are undoubtedly Saxon,
and to be traced to the period of the Heptarchy, when Galloway
and the southern parts of Ayrshire were overrun by the Northum-
brians. At the same time, it must be remembered, that the Scots
from Ireland and Argyle took possession of the country so early
as the ninth century; that the Gaelic language was very gene-
rally spoken throughout the whole country along the Frith of Clyde,
even in the time of Buchanan; that the names of the district of
Carrick, of which Maybole is the principal town, and of many of the
neighbouring farms, hills, and streams, are Gaelic; and that all these
circumstances would naturally lead us to trace the name of May-
bole to a similar origin. There is, however, considerable difficul-
ty in assigning it to its proper Celtic roots, from the different ways
in which the name is written, even in very ancient records. Some-
times it is found Maiboil, and at other times Minnybole, with nu-
merous variations in the orthography of each; and as either may be
adopted, will signify the heath ground upon the marsh or meadow,


