
332                        RENFREWSHIRE.
cording to their condition in society, enjoy, in a reasonable degreei
all the ordinary comforts of life, with many of its luxuries. A great
number of the operatives have from 16s. to L. 1, and from L. I to
L 1, 10s.; and some from L. 1, 10s. to L. 1, 15s. and L. 2 per
week. Yet true it is, though strange, that those who have only
from 16s. to L. I are more independent, and infinitely more coni-
fortable in their clothing, furniture, and supply of the table, than
those who have from L.1,10s .toL.2,ayeL.2,10s.a week. The
one class is generally frugal, sober,, and contented with their situa-
tion and circumstances. The other is dissipated, prodigal, literally
wretched and poor; ill fed and hll clad, discontented with their
condition, and with every thing and every body around them.
Those; of the one class give themselves to the duties of religion,
the other to politics. The latter would reform every thing, yet re-
fuse to reform themselves. Amongst a people given to politics,
the moral and religious character is lost. The one absorbs the
other, and the magnitude of eternity is lost in the littleness of time.
The squabbles of factions are preferred to the peace of God, and
the party howlings of this world's policy to the SODGS Of Zion.'
In a parish abounding with cotton-mills, printfields, and bleach-
fiiplds, where men, women, and children are cooped up together from
five in the morning till seven at night; where indecent language is
often heard, and evil example often set before them; where no op-
portunity is afforded the children to acquire solid knowledge, and.
where time is wanting for the adults to improve their minds by,
readhng and reflection, how is it possible that such a population,
can in general be intellectual, moral, and religious? If'we' are to
enjoy a healthy state of niorals, the present and future generations
must be trained up in the fear oft he Lord, and obedience to his
eocamandments,  If these are neglected, every generation will
giow worse and7worae, till society become wholly corrupted and
debased, and we sink, as a mnral and. religious people, from among,
the nations of the earth. Indeed a radical change of system must
take place througb out all the branches of the COTTON trade when   ere,
at, present, children are employed, if ever we are to become and
intellectual. moral, and religious people. Government must inter'_,
fere,-our, old religious system, ofeducati6n must return, children
must be taught, and, none permitted to enter iiito any of these-
works below the aged of twelve or fourteen year.% and until they.
have learned to read their Bibk and say their catechism.


