
     Statistical Account

pasture ground, is 6 1/2 acres.-The schoolmaster's salary is 8 L.
6 s. 8 d. Sterling, which, together with the emoluments of
the office, make his living about 20 L. Sterling a-year.  Twelve
years ago, the heritors built an excellent school, and a house
for the master, under one roof, which last they neatly finish-
ed to encourage him to keep boarders.-The number of poor
who receive occasional supply is, at an average, 36.  There
are 5 or 6 besides, who receive weekly from 1 s. to 2 s. each.
The money belonging to the poor, is 70 L. Sterling, the in-
terest of which, with the weekly collections, seat-rents, mort-
cloth dues, &c. amounts to about 40 L. Sterling yearly.

   Antiquities.-The vestige of an old camp on an hill called
Ree-Dikes, or the King's Dikes, appears very distinct.  It
is an oblong square of 21 acres, has four outlets and redoubts
before them, and many of the trenches are still pretty deep*.
In almost every part of the parish, remains of Druidical
temples are to be met with+.  On the coast about a mile and
a half N. from Stonehaven, appear the remains of a castle,
the residence of the Thanes of Cowie or Mearns++.  On a

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is supposed by some to have been a Roman encampment, and to be the
very spot occupied by Agricola's troops before his engagement with Galgacus
the Scotch king.  On a moor 2 miles E. of the camp, there are a great many
tumuli, or small cairns, and some very large ones, which are supposed to be se-
pulchral monuments raised on the field of battle to the memory of the dead.
The moor is called the Kamp-Stane Hill, on each side of which, there is a mo-
rass, which would cover the flanks of the army that first reached the ground;
and it is not improbable the battle was fought between the morasses.
+Since the incumbent was settled, there was one that seemed to be pretty,
entire, the three circles formed by stones of different sizes being very distinct.
But the farmer on whose possession it stood, demolished it a few years ago, by
carrying off the stones for building.
++ Buchanan calls the Thane of Cowie Macpendirus.  Donald Bane the bro-
ther of Malcolm Canmore (he says) bribed Macpendirus*, Comes Mernise, to

*Buchan Hist. Scot, lib. vii,


