
502                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

ing them, afford a constant excitement.  They are not destitute
of a serviceable share of that knowledge which is derived from let-
ters; but, with regard to their worldly affairs, experience may be
called the great guide of their life.
   Their moral qualities are of a yet higher order.  They are as-
siduously industrious temperate in their desires and enjoyments,
affectionate in their families, careful of the education of their chil-
dren, friendly and obliging to one another, liberal to the poor with-
out the slightest ostentation, and sincere and upright in their deal-
ings with strangers.  These qualities secure a peaceable and or-
derly neighbourhood, where any necessity for the interference of
the civil magistrates almost unknown.  A law-plea is an event
of the rarest occurrence; and neither tradition nor record states
that any inhabitant, native of the parish, was ever accused before a
criminal court.
   These moral qualities, so beneficial to the individual and the
present order of society, have their permanent root in a deep and
steady principle of religion; and the same wise practical discre-
tion which regulates their worldly affairs is also a characteristic of
their religion.  There is perceived among them no loquacious pa-
rade of religious knowledge, no casuistical disputation, no delight
in controversy, and none of that ostentatious display of piety which
is forbidden to a Christian; but they who know them most intimate-
ly, know also, that a constant feeling of their dependence upon
God, and responsibility to him, rendered active by the promises
and hopes of Christianity, directs the general tenor of their life.
Happily, the demoralizing practice of smuggling never found its
way into the parish: and poaching is unknown.

<TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY>
Number of males employed in agriculture, as farmers, cottars, and farm-ser-
   vants,        							                         243
   This includes a considerable number of boys under 15 years of age employed
about cattle.
Number of males employed in manufactures,                               	   6
                            trade and handicraft, as masters and workmen,       59

   The larger proportion of these last are strictly employed for
the purposes of agriculture ; as the blacksmith in making agricul-
tural implements and shoeing the horses ; the cart and plough-
wright; the builder of the thrashing-machines ; the mason and
house-carpenter in building agricultural houses ; the maker of
agricultural harness ; and, besides, persons of all these handicrafts
have crofts of their own, that they manage chiefly by their own
labour, and many of them hire themselves out for the harvest.


