
                OATHLAW OR FINAVON.                           307

ing with a tower, situated almost in the centre of the parish: it is very
conveniently placed for all parts of the population, the furthest ex-
tremity of the parish not being much above three miles distant. It
was built in 1815, and, save that the walls are in some places rather
leaky, it is otherwise in very good repair. It contains accommo-
dation for upwards of 200 sittings. There are no seats set apart for
the poor.-indeed the whole is too small for the population. A pe-
tition was presented to the session about six months ago, signed
by forty individuals, requesting accommodation in the church, and
the Earl of Aboyne has given his consent to have a gallery erect-
ed at the west end, which it is expected will be accomplished this
spring.
	The manse was built in 1814, and received an enlargement in
1833. The glebe was formerly about seven acres and a half in
extent, arable land. When a commonty was divided many year
ago in the west extremity of the parish, a portion of this was set
apart for the minister, amounting to about eight acres. As this
lay at a considerable distance, it was comparatively of little value
to any incumbent. An arrangement has, however, been lately made,
by which this portion of commonty belonging to the minister has
been excambed for a portion of arable land, amounting to two
acres and a half, and adjoining the rest of the glebe. The glebe
is, therefore, now about ten acres of arable land. The amount of
the stipend is L. 155, 7s. 6d. in money, including the sum given
for communion elements, and 6 bolls, 3 firlots meal, and 2 pecks,
1 lippy barley.
	Divine service is on the whole well attended; and when the ad-
dition of a gallery is made, it will conduce much to the comfort of
the parishioners, and take away that excuse which some are apt to
make, that they cannot attend public worship, as they have no
seat in church. The number of families attending the Establish-
ed church may be stated to be 40; persons of all ages, 200; and
the average number of communicants about 200; of Dissenting
individuals there are in the parish, 2; Seceders, 5; Episcopalians,
3; and Roman Catholics, 4.
        Benefactions.-In March 1833, the parish received a benefac-
tion of L. 100 from Alexander Hanton, many years tenant in the
parish, to be called "Hanton's Bequest;" the interest of the mo-
ney to be laid out for the poor of the parish, at the, discretion of
the minister and elders.


