
                           KELTON.  			     165

them became destitute; and, in consequence, rose in a mob; when,
with pitchforks, gavellocks, and spades, they levelled the park dikes
of Barncailzie and Munches, which, I saw with my own eyes. The
mob passed by Dalbeaty and Buittle, and did the same on the
estates of Netherlaw, Dunrod, &c. and the lands of the Laird of
Murdoch, then proprietor of Kilwhanedy, who turned out sixteen
families at that time. The proprietors rose, with their servants
and dependants, to quell this mob; but were not of sufficient force
to do it, and were obliged to send for two troops of dragoons from
Edinburg, who upon their appearing, the mob dispersed." Before
the arrival of the military, however, the Levellers had very effec-
tually done their work, the right hand side of the old road from
Stewartry being one on the right hand side of thd old road from
Castle-Douglas to Kirkcudbright, upon the estate of Kelton.
The proprietor used more effectual weapons to preserve his fence
than the swords of the dragoons. Having awaited the arrival of
the Levellers, he accosted them courteously, and invited them, be-
fore commencing their labours, to refresh themselves from a good
cask of spirits, and another of ale, which he had prepared for
them. They drank his ale, and spared his dike.
	The present race of farmers are an intelligent and enterprising
class of men. Their farms are skilfully managed, all the most
approved modes of agriculture and improving stock being in gene-
ral use; but a great obstacle to their improvements is the difficulty
of procuring lime, which must be shipped from the opposite coast
of England. Bone manure is much used in turnip husbandry;
and draining, both with tiles and stones, is practised to a conside-
rable extent, and with the greatest success.
	A great impulse was given to agriculture by the discovery of
the beds of marl in the Carlinwark Loch, about the year 1765.
Crops of the greatest luxuriance were produced by the use of this
calcareous manure, and it soon came to be eagerly sought after,
and extensively applied. Igmorant, however, of its tendency to
exhaust as well as stimulate the soil, the farmers injured their lands
by cropping them for many seasons in succession; and this natural
effect of an injudicious abd excessive use of the marl was referred
to the manure itself, and for many years it has ceased to be ap-
plied. the common rotation is now a white and a green crop al-
ternately, till the fifth year, when the lands are laid down in grass.
	Nothing can be more striking than the contrast betweem the
present system of agriculture, and that described by Symson, who


