
			ARDROSSAN.                            207

sick, and he must apply to the council to visit his dying father.
They allow him, indeed, by their act, (22d June 1671,) but with
a proviso, that he go to no other house without his parish in com-
ing and going." For want of encouragement, both as to mainte-
nance and meeting-house, Mr Bell demitted his charge in 1688.
6. Thomas Clerk was ordained in 1691, and died in 1737. 7. Ro-
bert Dow was ordained in 1739, and died in 1787. & John Duncan
was ordained in 1789, and died in 1819. 9. John Hendry was or-
dained assistant and successor to Mr Duncan in 1810, and died in
1835; and, 10. The present incumbent was ordained assistant and
successor to Mr Hendry in July 1830; so that it may be said the pa-
rish has been vacant only three times since the Revolution of 1688.
	Manse, &c.--The manse and offices were built upwards of forty
years ago. In 1835, the manse was considerably enlarged and
thoroughly repaired. The glebe, including garden and site of
manse and offices, consists of 5 acres 1 rood. The soil is
good, and, from its nearness to the town of Saltcoats, might be let
at between L. 4 and L. 5 per acre. There are L. 20 Scots allow-
ed in lieu of a grass grebe, according to an agreement entered into
between the presbytery and the heritors, nearly a century ago,
though it is on record there was abundance of church lands in
the parish. The present stipend is 17 chalders, half meal and
half barley, with L. 10 for communion elements. *
	Gaelic Church.--This church was built by subscription; cost
nearly L. 1000; and contains 720 legal sittings. It is also situated
in the town of Saltcoats, where the majority of the Highland fa-
milies are located. There is no minister appointed as yet. A
stipend of L. 80 will be secured in the usual manner, and paid from
the seat-rents and collections.
	Dissenters.--There is one dissenting house in the parish, be-
longing to the United Secession. The minister has a house and
garden. His stipend is paid from the seat-rents and collections.
	The parish church is always well attended. The seats are let

<FOOTNOTE>
	* By a grant of the heritors in 1747, the minister has the privilege of gathering
and leading of sea wrack, for improving the new glebe, from any part of the shore
betwixt the Stanley Burn foot and the harbour of Saltcoats. From the following ex-
tract from the presbytery records, it appears that at one time he had some other sea
privileges. May 18th 1647. "The edict of Mr Ralph Roger being called for, was
returned formallie and lawfullie indorseit:--the presentation being producit and
compairit with the prior presentation, it was fund to be deficient in ane clause anent
the sea viccarage, whilk it did not specifie at all, but which the presbyterie was con-
fident that the two noblemen Eglintone and Montgomerie would rectifie--the
presbyterie being hopfull, that the said two noblemen would mend any thing that was
deficient in the presentation; ordaines admissione," &c.


