
     of Cavers.

of this parish, and that of Hawick.  The chaplain who performs
the duty, is partly paid by the Duke of Buccleugh, and the mi-
nisters of Cavers and Hawick, and partly from a subscription
by the people.  The number of poor receiving weekly support
is about 40, for which the heritors assess themselves, to the
amount of 140 l. yearly.  The weekly collections are given
by the kirk-session to the poor not belonging to the list of
pensioners.-There is in the village of Denbolm, a Camero-
nian meeting-house, which is attended by several of the in-
habitants and neighbourhood, who are between 2 and 3 miles
distant from the kirk; few of them, however, join in com-
munion with them.

   Eminent Men.-Lord Heathfield*, so justly famed for his
military exertions, particularly his gallant defence of Gibral-

<FOOTNOTE>

*GEORGE AUGUSTUS ELIOTT, Lord HEATHFIELD, the 9th
son of Sir Gilbert Eliott, Bart, of Stobs, was born at the pater-
nal estate in the year 1718.  He shewed an early inclination for
a military life, and soon became an officer in the 23 d regiment
of foot, the Royal Welsh Fusileers.  He left this regiment, and
went into the corps of engineers at Woolwich, where he conti-
nued till the year 1740, when he became adjutant in the 2 d
troop of horse guards.  He served in Germany, and was woun-
ded at the battles of Dittengen and Fontenoy.  In March 1759,
he was appointed to the 15th regiment of light dragoons; and,
in the August following, headed the second line of hosee under
the Marquis of Granby, at the battle of Minden.  Being con-
stituted a lieutenant general, he was, in 1762, ordered from
Germany, for the purpose of assisting, as second in command,
at the memorable reduction of the Havannah.  He was ap-
pointed Commander its Chief in Ireland in 1774, but being dis-
gusted, on his arrival, he made a request to be recalled, which
was complied with; and, upon the death of Lord Cornwallis,
he was made (governor of Gibraltar in his place, which fortress
he bravely defended during the late siege, in the years 1779,
1780, 1781, and 1782.  In 1783, he was granted a pension of
2000 l. per annum, and created a Knight of the Bath; and, in
1787, was raised to the dignity of a peer of Great Britain.  The


