
362                  GENERAL DBSERVATIONS

Merse, extending from the Tweed to the Whitadder, and which
is the most level part, a continued succession occurs, at short in-
tervals of those slight but well defined eminences. But what this
county wants in the beauties of nature, has been abundantly sup-
plied by the embellishments of art. Studded with band some coun-
try seats, snug farm-houses, comfortable cottages, and clean and
thriving villages, adorned with tasteful clumps, and extensive co-
lumns of wood of almost every variety of forest trees, and present-
ing to view numerous and well laid out fields of corn and pasture
completely enclosed with thriving hedges, and managed according
to the most improved methods of modern husbandry, it appears in
striking contrast to the barren and sterile aspect of the up land grounds,
with which it is skirted on almost every side, and to what we may
imagine its appearance to have been a century ago, when there
were few vestiges of culture, no enclosures, and but little wood.
The view towards the south, south-east and west, from the heights
above Chirnside, is one of great variety, and by no means des-
titute of picturesque effect : it never fails forcibly to strike a
stranger. It is doubtful whether in any district of Scotland such
an extensive, rich, and well cultivated rural panorama can be
found, or whose external features bear so near a resemblance to
some of the fertile plains of " merry England." The Lammer-
moor hills are seen in all their sterile and heath-clad blackness,
their rounded forms well defined, and placed, as it were, as a pro-
tection to the wide and cultivated plains which they enclose. Ex-
tending for many miles, the Merse appears reclining in calm re-
pose, its surface decked with various objects of rural interest, and
interspersed with trees, hedgerows, woods, rich pastures, and spa-
cious and fertile corn fields. To the south-west is seen Hume
Castle, frowning from its elevated site on the plain beneath, and re-
calling the remembrance of feudal times. At a farther distance,
in nearly the same direction, appear the Eildon hills, towering
to the clouds, while far to the south-cast, the huge masses of the
Cheviot mountains, rising in dim and dusky grandeur, arrest the
eye of the spectator, and furnish a fine and imposing termination
to the scene.
   The eastern part of the county differs considerably in the cha-
racter of its topography from the parishes in its internal part,
-being more diversified with hill and dale, more variegated with
rising grounds, and not presenting such an uniform and level ap-
pearance. In several places, this district is intersected with rugged


