
962                           PERTHSHIRE.

   The city of Dunkeld, subsequent to 1690, formed one street,
from the cathedral to the top of the hill on the eastward, by which
hill the traveller had to descend to the town. The old residence
of the Atholl family in Dunkeld was built to front this old ap-
proach to the city, and the double rows of trees which lined the
access to the mansion are still standing. After the erection of the
Dunkeld Bridge in 1809, the town completely changed both
its form and ancient appearance. The great north road from
Perth to Inverness was made to intersect the town, and a new
street of handsomd buildings was formed, in a line with the bridge.
In the old part of the town, near to the cross, the weekly cattle
markets are held, and all imported vegetables, &c. are sold.  A
small yearly assessment on the inhabitants repairs tbe streets; but
there is no assessment for lighting the town during winter, which
is a great desideratum. There is no gas-work; no public green
for bleaching; and no ground for public amusements. The clean-
ing of the streets is paid by the sale of the sweepings. The inha-
bitants at one time intended to avail themselves of the act of
Parliament termed Loch's Act, for the better management of the
town; but, on a representation to them, that it was not a burgh
of barony, but only a portion of the barony of Dunkeld, that
movement terminated. The police of the city is at present regu-
lated by a magistrate, deputed by the Duke of Atholl, who is the
hereditary bailie, in place of the Bishop of Dunkeld. The salary
of the Bishop's ballie is L. 40 Scots, payable out of the Bishop's
rents.
   The city is now built in the form of a cross. Its extent is not
perceived by a stranger until he reaches the centre of the Dun-
keld Bridge. At that point he has a full view of the town. Its
cathedral church is here displayed in a picturesque and favourable
point of view, relieved by the deep,back-ground of the richly vood-
ed pleasure grounds of Dunkeld, above which rises the hill of
Craig-y-barns, whose varied and picturesque outline, with its sides
richly clothed in wood, forms the chief object in the landscape,
while the extreme distance, is constituted by the long woody ridge
of Craig-vinean. Perhaps, however, the most striking feature of
this picture consists in the river Tay. As it retires from the eye in
a prolonged and varied perspective, silent, smooth, and dark, its
source seems lost in the deep woods and rocky recesses of the
lofty hills by  which it is overshadowed; while, on the other hand,
trees of endless variety skirt its margin, often feathering down into


