
                        ROSSKEEN.                                    271

	number of tumuli; but none of them have, so far as we know, been
	opened. In effecting some improvements, a few years'ago, on the
	farm of Ardross it was found necessary to remove one of these
	cairns; but the people bad a tradition that "the plague was buried
	under it," and refused to touch it; and it was with no small diffi-
	culty, that they were at length induced to assist in its removal. On
	the summit of a wooded hill called Knock Navie, there is a cairn
	named Carna Da Croiche, i.e. the cairn of the gallows. The tra-
	dition connected with it is, that some men who were travelling,
	being weary and faint with hunger, as they passed Achnacloich,
	stopped and asked the woman who had charge of the laird's dairy
	for some cheese and milk to allay their hunger, offering at the
	same time to pay for it. She, however, refused to give it ;
	upon which, the men took it, laid down money for it, and went
	away. The women immediately informed the laird of the cir-
	cumstance, who being a man of a fierce and savage disposi-
	tion, sent after the travellers, brought them back and hanged
	them on the spot now marked by the cairn. In some of the cairns
	which were removed, sculls and bones of a very large size were
	found. One of these cairns bears the name of Carna Darn Fiann,
	i.e. the cairn of the Finoalians. There are, also, several small en -
	closures, which appear to have been places of sepulture. The
	most perfect of these is of an oblong form, about twelve or four-
	teen feet long, and two or three feet in breadth. It consists of a
	large and massive flat stone placed upright at the head,-while on
	either side there are three or four similar stones placed in a line,
	but none at the foot. It was, we believe, originally roofed over,
	the entrance being, at the open end; but it was, several years ago,
	considerably injured by some masons, who wished to obtain the
	stones for building a house in the vicinity. There is no tradition
	connected with it : it is too old for tradition.
	  Modern Buildings.-We have few, if any, very modern erec-
	tions which are worthy of notice. Invergordon Castle, a fine build-
	ing, was some years ago destroyed by fire. The walls are still
	standing ; but no attempt has been made to repair it, and the fa-
	mily reside in one of the wings. It is surrounded by very beauti-
	ful and extensiveFpleasure grounds.-There is a new, largep and
	very complete mill at Dalmore,-which contains a flour-mill bar-
	ley-mill, meal-mill, thrashing-mill and saw-mill. There is also a
	saw-mill on the banks of the river Alness, which cuts annually a
	very considerable quantity of wood.


