

                        ECHT.                           737

that his body was afterwards brought into a court of justice, mean-
ly arrayed in a doublet of coarse canvas, that the senence of a
traitor might be pronounced over it.  The Queen, who was at
Aberdeen during the battle, three days after beheld Sir John
Gordon beheaded there.  Murrays was put i npossession of the
estates belonging to his new earldom.  An excavation on the side
of a rock, where it is said Mary sat soon after, and viewed the
scene of action on her way south, still retains the name of the
Queen's chair.
  Chief Land-owners.-James Forbes, Esq. of Echt is the prin-
cipal  and only residing heritor; William Innes, Esq. of Raemoir
has the land of Cullerley ; the Trustees of the late John Harvey,
Esq. of Kinnettles, those of Bragiewell and South Meanecht, and
the Earl of Fife, as heir to the late George Skene, Esq. of Skene,
the lands of Mill of Air.  The valued rent is as follows: Echt,
Tillyshoggle, and Easter Echt, belonging to James Forbes, Esq.
L. 1808, 8s. 8d.; Cullerley, L. 432, 19s. 1d.; Bragiewell and S.
Meanecht. L. 75. 13s. 9d.; Mill of Air, L. 47, 13s. 6d.; total,
L.2364,15s.
  Parochial Registers,-The oldest begins in 1642, and they ap-
pear to have been regularly kept.  They amount altogether to
fourteen volumes.
  Aintiquites.--On the Barmekin hill already mentioned, there
is an ancient fortification, which is generally denominated a Da-
nish camp.  No record or tradition, however, confirms this sup-
position.  The entrenchments which enclose the summit of the hill
are five in number, in a perfect stte of preservation as far as regards
the lines of fortifications, though more or less crumbled into ruins
There is no appearace of cement having been used in construct-
ing these ramparts, which in several place, are still so entire as
to exhibit a regular structure of masonry done with skill, particu-
larly at the gateways, of which there  appear to have been  three
on the south side, and two on the noirth, all in an oblique direc-
tion.  The walls measure about five feet in thickness, the height
appear to have been considerable, but cannot now be exactly
know,  The three outer ditches are nine feet in breadth.  The
inner rampart exhibits great care and strength in its structure, be-
ing at least 12 feet thick at the base, of which several feet in
height still remain entire.  The interior inclosure, which hts
been reduced to an uniform level, an nearly circular, is 800 feet
in diametere, and contains about one acre of ground.  On the
ABERDEEN.                                       3A


