
                            MARKINCH.                         663

technically termed "stoop and througher." The working rooms
are 13 feet wide, and the pillars 15 feet; the width of the rooms
contracting on nearing the crop, or where the roof is insecure.
     The average number of colliers employed may be stated at 30.
They are paid at the rate of 2 1/2d. per load of 20 stones Dutch, for
large coal, which sells at 1s, per load. The small coal costs 1 3/4d.
per load for hewing, and sells at 6d. The sale was originally con-
fined to the country demand, but latterly the manufactories on the
Leven and Orr waters, and in Kirkaldy, have drawn their supplies
from hence. With more powerful engines for drawing off the
water, the coal seams on Balgonie may be regarded as inexhaust-
ible, as tbey dip to tbe east, and are never found to rise to the sur-
face in a direction opposite to the line of bearing.

                       IT.--CIVIL HISTORY.

     Antiquities.--Markinch Hill.--This remarkable hill, on the
southern slope of which the village is partly built, is an object
alike interesting to the geologist and the antiquary. It is com-
posed of a fine sand, intermixed with water-worn stones, and rises
to the height of about 100 feet above the level ground in the vi-
cinity, extending in a continuous ridge from east to west about 300
yards. At either extremity it sinks abruptly, and is flanked by two
smaller eminences, that to the west terminating in the marshy
ground along the line of Balbirnie Park wall, while that on the
east is separated from Dalginch Law by a deep and narrow ravine,
through which Balbirnie burn flows. The southern slope of the
hill is sufficiently gradual, but on the northern side it is naturally
precipitous, and has been rendered more so by the labours of art.
The whole of this side of the hill from the base upwards is cut
into terraces, which seem to have been continued round its extre-
mities. On that towards the east, indeed, the may be still dis-
tinctly traced, but towards the west they are obliterated, the hill
having been cut down, partly to allow a passage for the road, and
partly for the purpose of obtaining sand and gravel. These ter-
races, six in number, are of an average breadth of 20 feet, and rise
each above the other in regular gradation from 10 to 12 feet.
They overlook a level field of about twelve acres, whicb, before
being drained, must have formed an impassable morass. There is
no very definite tradition why or when these terraces were formed.
The most probable conclusion is, that they are the work of the
Roman invaders, who, under Agricola, overran this part of the
country, covering it with entrenchments and fortifications, as a


