
			BLAIRGOWRIE.                        929

tober 1837, and now numbers 120 depositors, having at their cre-
dit deposits amounting to L.1197, 19s. 7d. The institution is a
branch of the National Security Savings Bank of Perth, with which
its funds are invested, and the rate of interest paid on deposits is
3 1/4 per cent. The deposits vary in amount from 5s. to L.30.
   The late Mr George Barty, formerly tobacconist in Perth, and
a native of this parish, by his settlement, bequeathed one-third of
the free residue of his estate to the Dean of Guild and Guild-
Council of Perth, in trust, for the purpose of laying, it out on he-
ritable security, and  paying the interest thereof annually to the
parish schoolmaster of Blairgowrie, and his successors in office, to
defray the expense of educating "all the orphan, fatherless, and
poor children" belonging to the parishes of Blairgowrie, Rattray,
Bendochy, and Kinloch in the parish school of Blairgowrie, the
children to be recommended by the minister and kirk-session of
these parishes, and those bearing the names of Barty and Soutar
to be preferred. Mr Barty died in the month of June 1838, and
his bequest came into operation at Martinmas 1841. The fund
thus mortified amounts to about L.1400, and there are now forty
children enjoying the benefit of the bequest. These children are
taught the same branches, and enjoy equal advantages in other
respects with the other children attending the parish school.
   There are still two other institutions, which will properly fall to
be alluded to under this head, viz. the Monthly Deposit Com-
pany, and the Tee-total Society. The former of these is some-
thing of the nature of a savings' bank, although conducted on dif-
ferent principles. It comprehends about 106 members who each
deposit 5s. per month for a period of ten years, at the expiration
of which the whole funds, principal and interest, fall to be divided
amongst the depositors or their representatives. The funds as
they are periodically collected from the depositors are lent out at
interest, either on personal or heritable security, and they at pre-
sent amount to upwards of L.2000.
   A Tee-total Society was established in November 1838 and
numbers about 700 members, including those inhabiting the neigh-
boring parish of Rattray.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving aid regularly from the poor's funds of the parish is 37;
and the average sum allotted to each is 5s. per month, or L.3 per
annum.
   The average number of persons receiving occasional relief from

PERTH.                                3 N


