
     Of Northmaven.

In this northern climate, more attention, care, and toil, must
be given to procure a bare subsistence, then a comfortable one,
with some supersluities, where the earth yields a more certain
and plentiful increase.  When sloth or mismanagement pre-
vail in the managers of a family, want and famine for a great
part of the year must be the consequence.  And, alas! this
is often the case, with the most careful and provident, when
their crops are blasted, and the small fishing in winter sails.

   Of the Fishing.-About the end of last, and beginning of
this century, the Hollanders resorted to this country to pur-
chase fish of the natives.  They paid a gratuity annually for
this privilege to the proprietors.  In May they arrived with
their vessels, and supplied the natives with the necessaries for
their families and fishing apparatus.  They received the fish
fresh, which, after being salted and dried, and having made
an agreement with the proprietors for the next year's pro-
duce, returned with their cargoes*.  It is usual for every

<FOOTNOTE>

*To this day, it is common to point out the Dutchmen's lodges and beaches
in the several parts of the parish.  About the year 1712, the proprietors of land
took the fishing under their management, when the debenture and regulations
respecting duties on salt were passed.  Then the landlords appointed fishermen,
imported salt, and all fishing necessaries, and freighted vessels for exporting their
fish, which then, and for several years afterward, were sent to Hamburg.  The
landlords receive their fish at a stipulated price.  From that period, to the year
1740, the fishing was not distant from the shore above 8 or 10 miles, carried on
in four oared boats with few lines; so that the quantity then caught was few,
compared to the numbers now.  But those few were more profitable to the fish-
er; and, in consequence, they then lived comfortably, and indebted to none.  A-
bout 1740, the boats increased much in number, which induced them to seek out
further to sea, to avoid their lines entangling, when crowded along shore.  Find-
ing a new bank, they enlarged their boats, and increased their number of lines.
till they gradually arrived to the present state.  The proprietors now purchase
their fish by weight.  The fisher, on an average, has 4 d. each ling.  But it must
be allowed that boats lines and all fishing necessaries are now double the price


