
680                         PERTHSHIRE.

per week ; women employed in field-work, from 8d. to 10d. per
day; carpenters and masons from 12s. to l8s. per week.
   Leases and Farm Buildings.-The leases on farms of mode-
rate size are generally for nineteen years. The farm buildings
have been much improved of late, and are now good and commo-
dious.
   Quarries.-At Newtyle, on the Dunkeld or Atholl estate, and
about two miles to the eastward of Dunkeld, a slate quarry has
been extensively wrought for many years.  The colour is a beau-
tiful dark blue, and the quality durable. There is abundance of
good limestone in many parts of the parish. On the Gourdie
estate limestone has been most extensively burnt, to the great ad-
vantage of the adjoining country.  The quality is good, and lime
might be sold at a moderate price, but for the expense of the coal,
which hitherto has been carted from Perth, a distance of seventeen
miles; however, coal, may now be procured at Cupar Angus, which
will shorten the carriage about one-half. The construction of the
kilns is such that the manager of the works, some years ago, ob-
tained a premium from the Highland Society.
   Fisheries.-There are several fhrhing stations on the Tay and
also on the Isla.  However, I am sorry to say, that the farm-ser-
vants in the parish may now safely omit a clause in their engage-
ments, in former days regularly inserted, namely, that they were
not to be offered fish oftener than three times a-week.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-There is no market-town inr the parish. The
nearest are, Dunkeld, five miles west from the church ; Blairgowrie
seven miles north-east ; Coupar- Angus, ten miles east; and Perth,
the county town, twelve miles south.
   Means of Communication, &c. Dunkeld is the post-town, and
a daily runner between that and Delvine House accommodates all
within the intermediate distance.
   The only turnpike road in the parish is that between the boat
of Caputh and Dunkeld, a distance of five miles, which is beauti-
fully Macadamized, and is, allowed to be the finest approach to
the splendid scenery of Dunkeld. There is an excellent statute-
labour road from the church to the bridge of Isla, six miles in
length, another branching off northward and to Clunie, and a third,
branching off the latter, by Snaigow and Loch of the Lows, to
Drunkeld, all kept in constant and thorough repair, so that every part
of this extensive parish is easy of access. There is no coach or public
                               2


