
     12                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

     bank, a little to the westward of the former, and which continued
     ever after to be held by some of the more powerful chieftains of
     the neigbbourhood for the king, as a royal house or garrison, down
     to the year 1746, when it was blown up by the troops of Prince
     Charles Edward Stuart.
         It was under the protection of this second castle (the eastern
     outer screen or rampart of which is still partly standing) that the
     houses of the burgh were gradually congregated, consisting, with
     the exception of a few larger buildings belonging to the neigh-
     bouring gentry, even at no ver remote period, for the most part,
     of cottages thatched with heather and straw, and which, being oc-
     cupied by a colony of foreign traders, (chiefly Flemish,) were con-
     stantly exposed to depredations and frequent burnings, by the
     marauding clans of the west coast, as well as to the severe exac-
     tions of the governors of their own castle.  It was, however, the
     wise and uniform policy of the sovereigns to encourage the growth
     of such mercantile communities, as well for the general prosperity
     of the country in regard to commerce, as for a check on the exor-
     bitant power of the nobles, and as abounding in loyal subjects fa-
     vourable to personal liberty, industry, and peace.  Hence, besides
     being frequently favoured with the presence of royalty, whether for
     the purposes of amusement, dispensing justice, or overawing and
     suppressing the rebellions of the northern chiefs, Inverness was
     early endowed with many privileges and immunities.  It was erect-
     ed into a royal burgh by David I, and was styled by him one of
     the "loca capitalia per totum regnum."  Willial the Lion grant-
     ed four charters to it, which were confirmed by succeeding mo-
     narchs ; and James III. conferred a new grant on it, which recites
     at length eight previous charters.  The great charter of the town,
     however, was conferred by James VI. in the year 1591.  These
     curious documents are still entire and legible, and are kept among
     the town's archives.
         Exclusive of the recent improvements in the town and parish,
     to be afterwards slightly noticed, no event of very great importance
     to either has occurred since the battle of Culloden on the 16th April
     1746; but, prior to that date, the whole neighbourhood was fre-
     quently disturbed by bloody clan conflicts and sackings of the town,
     the particulars of which will be found detailed in the works above
     referred to, and which are now worthy of remembrance only as
     indicative of the present happier condition of the people under the
     regular and impartial administration of equal laws.


