
     Statistical Account

dividuals would appear but small, and the burden would
scarcely be felt by the county.  Perhaps they could adopt
no plan which promises to be of so much public utility.  A
measure of this kind will appear every day of more pressing
necessity, when the Bridewell now building at Edinburgh
shall be finished.  If Fife takes no step to defend itself against
the influx of pickpockets, swindlers, etc. which may natu-
rally be expected, it will become the general receptacle of
sturdy beggars and vagrants; and the rising industry of the
county must be exposed to the depredations of the desperate
and the profligate, from every quarter*.

   Manufactures.-In Cupar, and the neighbouring country,
a considerable manufacture of coarse linens has been esta-
blished.  They consist chiefly of yard-wides, as they are com-
monly named, for buckram, glazed linens, etc.  There also
they manufacture Osnaburghs, tow sheetings, and Silesias.
About 500, 000 yards are annually stamped in Cupar, which
amount in value to about 20,000 L. Sterling.  Cupar being
the principal market in Fife for brown linens of the above
description, webs from the adjoining country, to the value of
more than 20,000 L. come to be sold there.  All these are
purchased with ready money, and sent to London, Glasgow,
and other markets.-The linen merchants in Cupar pay an-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Though, in describing the prisons of Cupar, the writer may
have;been led to adopt terms seemingly harsh and severe, yet
he means not to convey, in the most distant manner, reflections
or censure on any body of men, or on any individual.  He has
frequently had occasion to praise the humanity of those, to
whose care prisoners at Cupar are committed, and, to witness
every kind attention paid to them, which the nature of the
place in which they are confined would permit.  He only with-
out to embrace the opportunities, which the present publication
affords, of turning the attention of the county, to objects which
he deems extremely interesting and important to society.


