
310			   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

fries to Portpatrick. The parish roads have also been greatly im-
proved. The people are more intelligent, refined, and cleanly in
their habits; their dress and food are of a higher description; and
their superstitious belief and observances have been greatly weak-
ened, if not entirely eradicated, particularly in the case of the
younger portion of the population. Almost every farm-house has
been rebuilt; and instead of rude hovels of one storey, the new
tenements are of two stories, and distinguished as much for com-
fort and convenience, if not elegance, as the old ones were for
meanness, and want of the most obvious accommodations. Houses
of all kinds were, with few exceptions, thatched with straw; now
they are almost all covered with slate. The most modern and
improved systems of husbandry, both as respects rotation of crops
and agricultural implements have been introduced; and the rent
of land has risen at least a third; while the farmers are of a higher
grade, and far more comfortable in their circumstances. The far-
mer, instead of sitting in the same apartment with his servants,
and eating at the same table, has now a snug parlour or dining-
room appropriated to himself and family; takes his meals off a co-
vered table; and the horn or pewter spoon has, in most cases given
way to silver. The hodden-gray and other home-made clothes
have disappeared, even in the case of servants, both male and fe-
male, and their place has been supplied by broad cloths, cotton, and
silks, such as would do credit to the metropolitan county of Scot-
land. The only drawback to be placed in opposition to this re-
presentation is the failure and disappearance of the wine company,
tannery, and brewery, forced businesses which could not succeed,
and to which we have referred under a former head. The
June annual fair, and the various markets at Gatehouse, have also
greatly fallen off. The Irish horses and cattle, which formed the
staple articles at these marts, instead of being sent through Gal-
loway, are almost all transported direct in steam-boats from Bel-
fast and the other Irish towns to the leading markets in England.
In 1812, for example, 20,000 horses and black-cattle were im-
ported at Portpatrick from Ireland. The number in 1837 was
only 1080. It is owing to this cause alone that the markets of
Gatehouse, as also those of other towns in Galloway, have de-
clined.

   April 1844.


