
78                            ROXBURHSHIRE.

     There are at present in the parish 2 persons insane; 1 fatuous;
and 1 blind.
     Language.--The language generally spoken by the lower or-
ders, throughout this district, contains many provincialisms, but
these are becoming gradually obsolete.  Two diphthongal sounds,
however, seem still to maintain their ground, namely, those re-
sembling the Greek e\i5, and the ow, as in the English words, cow,
sow, how, now,--e.g. the common people generally pronounce,
tree, tre\i5; tea, te\i5; knee, kne\i5; me, me\i5; and, instead of the diph-
thongal sound of oo in the pronoun you, the pronunciation is al-
most invariably yow, as in now.
     Poaching in game is carried to a very considerable extent in
this district; and, so long as the present game laws continue, there
is very little prospect of any materi`l diminution.  Unqualified per-
sons are to be met with, in bands, in open day, equiped in all the
habiliments of the licensed sportsman.  This is an employment
prejudicial in a high degree to the morals and industry of the com-
munity; and it would render an essential service to many poor
families, were the law efficient enough to suppress poaching alto-
gether, or make it an employment not worth the prosecuting.*
                              IV.--INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture and Rural Economy.-- About two-thirds of the pa-
rish are in tillage.  But there is very little land that has not at
some period been cultivated, as appears by the high ridges that
may be observed in all old pastures.  A great part of the out-
field land in the parish, however, has not been ploughed within
the memory of the oldest inhabitants.  There is no land which
could with profit be added to the cultivated land in the parish;
but, on the contrary, perhaps a-part of what is at present cultivat-
ed might be more profitable if left in permanent pasture.  The
number of acres under wood is about 100.
     The kinds of trees commonly planted are, oak, ash, elm, and
beech, with larch, Scotch, spruce, and silver firs to nurse.  The
proportions are, about one-fourth of hard-wood and three-fourths of
fir.  Considerable attention is paid to the management of wood,
by yearly thinning, pruning, &c.
     Rent of Land.--It is difficult to ascertain the exact rent of arable
land, but, at a rough guess, it may be stated on an average at about
L. 1, 1s. per acre.  The average rent of grazing may be at the


<FOOTNOTE>In consequence of the establishment of an active constable in the town of Ha-
wick, poaching, within these last two years, has very much decreased.



