
               TIREE AND COLL.                                 199

extremity, and Oransay on the south-east ; all are uninhabited,
and graze a few sheep.
   Coll is about fourteen miles long from north-east to south-
west, thus making the whole parish (including the ferry) about
twenty-nine miles in length.  I imagine its greatest breadth
may be about three miles.  It is much more regular in its figure
than Tiree.  Its general appearance is by no means prepossessing,
at least in the eye of a stranger.  Towards the southeast side, it is
almost, from end to end, a moorish, barren-looking tract which
seems hardly capable of cultivation or improvement.  Along the
north-west coast, the soil is light and sandy.  The intermediate
space, though interspersed with numerous ledges of rock, contains
some fine fields, and many small spots of uncommon fertility.
Though there is nothing in Coll that can with propriety be called
a mountain, yet it is much more rugged and uneven in its surfaces
than Tiree, from which it differs much in its general aspect.
None of its hills, I presume, exceed the, height of 300 feet above
the sea.
   The sea coast of Coll is much bolder in its character than that
of Tiree, being for the most part rocky and precipitous.  There
are no dangerous rocks lying at any considerable distance from
he land, except those called the "Cairns of Coll," situated about
a mile from its north-east extremity, and well-known to coasting
vessels.  On the south side of the island is a bay known by the
name of Loeb-Breacaeba, which runs about a mile into the land,
and affords a tolerable anchorage in the summer season.  At the
head of this bay, the principal proprietor's house is situated ; and
at the mouth of it, lies the small verdant island of Soay, already
noticed, separated from the land by a narrow but deep channel,
where there is always sufficient depth of water for boats of any size
to pass.  A little further to the west lies the bay of Crosspol,
which is a couple of miles across, but is never used as an anchor-
age, being full of sunk rocks, and much exposed to the south and
south-west.  It is bounded on the north by a sandy.  beach about
a mile long, which is the only one of the kind worthy of notice in
Coll.
   Climate, &c.-It is sometimes remarked by aged people, that
Within their memory the climate in this quarter has undergone a
perceptible change, and is more rainy than formerly.  Yet it may
be doubted wbether the supposed change has not taken place ra-
ther in their own constitution than in the weather.  Be this as it


