
     of Tranent.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The battle of Preston, in 1745,
was fought partly in this parish, the scene of action lying
about half a mile to the north of the church.  The remains
of the gallant Christian hero, Colonel Gardiner, who died in
the minister's house of the wounds he received in the field,
he interred in the west end of the church.

   The post road running through the parish is an evident
advantage, as thereby an easy communication with the me-
tropolis, on the one hand, and Haddington, the best corn
market in the kingdom, on the other, is opened.  The near-
ness, and consequent cheapness, of coal, is an acknowledged
convenience to the place, though the scarcity of water is an
effectual bar to manufactures that owe much of their success
to the low price and plenty of fuel.  There is but one spring

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

was here an hospital, but by whom founded is uncertain.  In
agman's roll, mention is made of Bathelmu Mesire de la meson
St Germen, anno 1296.  In later times, St Germans belong
to the Knights Templars, but was, with most of its reve-
es, bestowed by King James IV. upon the King's College of
Aberdeen in 1494.
   At Seton was a collegiate church, founded for a provost, 6
ebendaries, 2 singing boys, and a clerk, out of several chap-
tories united for that effect by George Lord Seton, the 20th
ne 1493.  The charter of foundation is afterwards confirmed
Andrew Abbot of New bottle, therein designed Apostolicae
dis Delegatus.  He built likewife the revestry or Sacruty of
ton, and covered it over with stone, in the reign of King
James IV. and, dying soon afterwards, was buried near the
gh altar of this collegiate church.  The building is still almost
tire.
   Close by the church stood the princely ruins of Seton-house,
residence of the Earls of Wintoun.  Upon the attander of
late Earl in 1715, the estate fell to the Crown, by whom, in
9, it was sold to the York Buildings Company, who suffer-
the house to fall to decay.  In 1790, the whole was taken
down by the present proprietor, to make way for a house, now
most finished, on a design of the late Mr Adam, in the old
le form.

</UNREADABLE>

     VOL. X. N


