
                       EAST KILBRIDE.                     899

through Kilbride from Glasgow to Strathavon.  There is a good
bridge, leading out of the parish into Glassford, over the Calder,
where that river divides the Torrance property from Crutherland,
the seat of John Smith, Esq.  This bridge has been greatly im-
proved within the last year.  There are three turnpike roads, of
which one is the Glasgow and Strathavon road.  Another leads
from Kilbride to Eaglesham, and a third completes the communi-
cation between Kilbride and Busby and Carmunnock.  The pa-
rish roads are kept in excellent order.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is in the village of Kil-
bride, and is as conveniently situated for the population as the cir-
cumstances of so extensive a parish will admit of.  It is nearly
eight miles distant from the southern extremity; about three miles
and a half from the western; about two miles and a half from the
northern; and about three miles from the eastern.  It was built
in 1774, and received a new roof and other repairs in 1838.  If
it were fully seated it might afford about 1200 sittings, but it can
only at present accommodate about 900 persons.  The manse was
built in 1836 and 1837.  The glebe contains about 5 acres, and
is worth nearly L.20 a year.  The stipend consists of nine chal-
ders of meal and nine of barley, besides L.10 for communion ele-
ments.  During the present year a missionary is placed in the
Aldhouse quarter, whose salary is paid by a subscription from some
of the heritors and myself.  There is a church in Kilbride con-
nected ulth the Relief body.  A Methodist chapel has also been
established.  The stipend of the Relief minister is about L.120
yearly, paid by the congregation, in addition to a free-house and
garden. In 1836, there were about 1962 persons professing to
belong to the Established Church; 1359 belonging to the Re-
lief; 115 of the Reformed Presbyterian persuasion; 94 of the
United Secession; and 76 Roman Catholics.  The average num-
ber of communicants in the Established Church is about 500.
There is a Tract Society in the parish, in which both churchmen
and Dissenters join, and in connection with which there is a
monthly prayer meeting.
   Education.--Tliere are two district parochial schools besides the
principal one at Kilbride.  One of these is at Aldhouse, and the
other at Jackton.  There is a very excellent school in Maxwell-
ton, supported by the liberality of Sir Willam Maxwell, and there
is an unendowed school in Kilbride.  In all these schools, the or-
dinary branches are taught.  Some of the modern improvements


