
     Statistical Account

feued, or let in fee; the fourth was let in lease.  Mr Wat-
son, Advocate in Aberdeen, feued the lot of Bingle.  The
lot called Mains of Murtle has passed through various
hands, and is now the property of Mr Gordon, merchant
in Aberdeen.  Both these gentlemen have built neat coun-
try seats, at which they occasionally reside.  The large and
commodious mansions of Culter and Countesswells are at
present uninhabited.  The lot of Oldfold belongs now to
Professor Ogilvy of King's College, who has let the whole
of it to one tenant.  A small house, the seat of the former
proprietor, is quite desolate and ruinous.  It is more than
half a century since a part of the estate of Drum was an-
nexed to the estate of Culter.  In this parish, the barony of
Kenarty, or south division, containing 4 or 5 ploughs, and
also the west division, belong now to the proprietor of
Culter.  The 4 lots of Murtle are inclosed and subdivided,
partly by hedging, and partly by stone fences.  Some of
the inclosures have been trenched, cleared of stones, well
manured, and brought to a state of improvement far from
being despicable.  Mr Watson has favoured me with the
following detail relative to his lot, which is subjoined in
the note below*.  The use of lime, as Mr Watson observes,

<FOOTNOTE>

*My feu is called Binghill, not Bingle, in the original writs.  It is 28
years since I feued it.  In extent it is 170 acres.  At that time only 42 of
these were arable; the remainder being covered with heath, furze, broom,
briars, etc.  I planted 60 acres, and trenched and improved the rest at a
very considerable expence; so all of it now bears crop but that under
wood.  I put 7000 plants into every acre; that is, 420,000 plants in all: Of
these were firs of all kinds, also oak, elm, ash, planes, etc. besides many fruit-
trees in my gardens.  They thrive; and many of the firs are already 15 and 20
feet high, and more.  In one of the plantations a Druid's temple was
discovered, which I inclosed.  Near to it there is a large tumulus, or
cairn, which, it is said, was once the burying place of the ancient family
of Drum, my farm having been their family seat some centuries back.
That old family were formerly proprietors of it and Murt-hill, or Murtle,


