
                               RATHVEN.                        255

whom they were built is unknown. On the moor of Rannachy, to
the right, at the distance of 100 paces from the high road, is an
eminence evidently artificial, called Tarrieclerack, supposed to be
a burial-place.
  Caves.-The most remarkable of those along the coast, which
are found on the property of Lord Seafield, are, 1st, Farskane's,
so called from the proprietor having, in 1715, retired into it, along
with two other gentlemen, to avoid trouble during the Earl of
Marr's rebellion. In it they lived comfortably for five or six weeks,
and returned to their own houses, when all apprehension of danger
was past. 2d, Janet Corstair's cave, so named from a mad woman
who took up her residence in it; and, 3d, The Cross cave, so
denominated from its taking a direction to the east and west, at
some distance from its entrance. The extent of none of these is
known. There is a well of fresh water on the north side of a green
hill, surrounded by the tide, called Priest's Craig-well, betwixt
Findochtie and Portnockie.
     Coins.-In 1805, a small square box was turned up by the
plough, on the moor of Arradoul, the property of Mr Gordon of
Cairnfield, containing some coins of Queen Mary, James VI., and
Charles I. Several of them are in the possession of Mr Gordon
and Sir James Gordon, Bart. They were in a very good state of
preservation. A silver handle of a sword also was found by Sir
James Gordon's father, on the grounds of Letterfourie; but the
blade was, completely destroyed by rust, so that no idea could be
formed of its antiquity.
  Modern Buildings.-The chief of these are, Letterfourie,.Cairn-
field, Tannachyl, Burnside, Buckie Lodge, the Roman Catholic
chapel, and the Bishop's dwelling-house at Presholm. There are
four corn-mills, besides one for grinding flour and making pot-bar-
ley, and another for carding wool. There is a distillery at Gol-
lachie, but it has not been in operation for a considerable time
past.
   		           III.-POPULATION.
The number of souls in this parish, as returned to Dr Web-
ster in 1755, was 2898. By a minute of visitation in the presby-
tery records, dated at the kirk of Rathven, 29th August 1720,
the population is stated at 1700 catechisable persons, and 600
Papist by a moderate computation of those above ten years ofage,
by Mr Robert Gordon, the ministers, in presence of the heritors.
BANFF.


