
     Statistical Account

it crops out, by which the stratum of calcareous matter has
been found, as yet, to be only about 3 feet thick, consisting
of irregular masses of exceeding fine lime-stone, bedded in a
mixture of argillaceous earth and shells, in which the latter
predominate.  Many of the shells are as entire as at the time
when the fish existed in them.  They are mostly of the cockle spe-
cies.  The generality of the masses of lime-stone found in this
stratum are of a whitish colour, and of a very close texture.
Upon the pavement of this stratum, however, there some-
times occur pretty large masses of blue lime-stone, in plates of
a circular form, on the surface of which are often found large
cockles, perfectly distinct, and adhering firmly to the general
mass.  These plates of lime-stone seem to be rounded by at-
tuition, as are also the angles of the whitish coloured lime-stone.
The pavement of this calcareous stratum is a blue argillaceous
rock, and the incumbent stratum forming its roof, is a coarse
free stone about 3 feet thick, which forms the pavement of a
coal seam of good quality, only 8 inches thick.  In removing
a part of an argillaceous bed which forms the roof of this coal,
there was found potrified wood, which from its cortaneous
appearance, much resembles broom.  In the vicinity of this
calcareous stratum, is a seam of coal of a singular kind, about
40 inches thick, (coaliers, from its giving a bright light, call
it a candle coal), of a close texture, which contains a consider-
able quantity of sulphur and iron.  When burnt in a common
fire, it produces a much greater quantity of ashes than com-
mon coal, and the ashes are of a very red colour, resembling
the ochre cf iron.  When burnt in a furnace of considerable
size, the iron melts and runs through the grate in a fluid state
combined with the sulphur, and forming a kind of regulus of
iron.  But the sulphureous fames which issue from it in most
furnaces are so destructive to the workmen, as to render it,
n many cases, of little consequence.


