
194                      PERTHSHIRE.

ty;-and forms, indeed, a monument to his memory, more perish-
able only than that deathless name which he has carved out with
his sword on the field of Barossa, and at the sieges of St Sebas-
tian and Bergen-op-zoom.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated about the
centre of the lower part of the parish; and though not in the im-
mediate vicinity of any village, is as convenient as it could be for
the general population, being at an equal distance from the vil-
lage of Luncarty on the east, and Pitcairn-green on the west.  It
is therefore from three to four miles frnm the extremities of the
lower part of the parish; but it is upwards of eight miles from the
extremity of the barony of Mullion.  Though conveniently situated
for the lower part of the parish, it is impossible that it can be so,
for a district located'from six to eight miles from it, as Mullion is.
It was built in 1776, and the only repair it has since received is,
that it was ceiled at the commencement of the present incumbency
in 1812.  It is abcordingly both defective in comfort for those
whom it contains, and inadequate to the population of the parish.
Its discomfort consists in its not being floored or paved below;
and in the narrowness of the pews, which do not admit of persons
sitting in them without being cramped, unless they sit obliquely,
which the state of the occupancy does not admit of. It is seated
for 414, and there are upwards of 500 communicants; so that it
cannot contain the whole communicants at one time.  And if it
be admitted that every young communicant should have seen the
solemn ordinance of the Lord's supper only twice administered be-
fore he comes to be a partaker of it; then there must, on a com-
munion Sabbath, be 160 communicants who cannot find accom-
modathon in the church.  Accordingly it happens that on such oc-
casions, not only is the church overcrowded, but, from the church
door to the church-yard door, there is a mass of human beings who
cannot get entrance into the church to keep with decency the me-
morial of their Redeemer.
   The manse was built at rather a later date than the church, and
was repaired in 1829. The glebe consists in all of about 8
acres of land; and there is a rent of 4 bolls of meal, and 10s.
Scots paid by Mr Smythe of Methven, for the possession of an-
other. The stipend has been recently modified to 17 chalders,
half meal, half barley. But it is as yet uncertain whether this will
be made good.
   There is a Chapel of Ease, now erected into an ecclesiastical
                         4


