
     Statistical Account

Orton, were communicated to the Royal Society, by the
Rev. Mr James Fraser, then minister of Kirkhill, near In-
verness, who was a distinct and accurate person, as well as
learned and ingenious: This gentleman relates to the So-
ciety, at the same time with the above, some curious obser-
vations he made on a small lake near Lochness, in these
words: "To the westward of the castle of Urquhart,
above 4 miles, stands the great mountain, Meal fourvouny,
of a round, neat, high shape, and may be 2 miles perpen-
dicular height from the lake.  Upon the very top of this
hill, there is a lake of cold fresh water, about 30 fathoms
in length and 6 broad, no course or stream running to it or
from it.  I plumbed with 100 fathoms of small line, but
could find no bottom.  It is always equally full, and never
freezes."  Lochness and the river lie between the 57th and
58th degrees N L.  They were never known to freeze
by the extremest cold experienced in so northern a climate.
They not only do not freeze, but dissolve frost in bodies
that are put into them.  We have frequently observed
washerwomen dip linens, when stiffened by frost, in the ri-
ver to thaw them.  The river in frosty weather smokes,
and a thick fog hangs over it, which sometimes spreads to
a considerable distance, and greatly mitigates the coldness
of the air on either side.  This is common to the lake*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Sir George Mackenzie, who was King's Advocate in the reign of
Charles II.  in a communication to the Royal Society, relates as follows.
  "Dr George Mackenzie who lives at Inverness told me, that he observes
rosemary though uncovered to continue in the gardens about Lochness
side, notwithstanding the last winter's long and violent frosts; whereas,
a far less violent winter ordinarily kills all the rosemary which is in
gardens, that lie in warmer places and at the sea side.  And though I
live near it, and in a better soil and warmer situation yet any winter
more than ordinarily cold kills my rosemary, though covered over with
straw and litter This he attributes, (and I think upon good ground),
to the warmth occasioned by those streams that frequently arise from that
lake+."
   +Lowthorp's Abridg. II. 22.


