
                        WHITBURN.                              79

minerals are found cropping out in the Fauld Burn, a little above
the village of Fauldhouse. These minerals lie somewhat in the
form of a basin, the next in order below which is the slaty band
series, to which also belong several seams of coal, generally of
trifling amount. One of these seams is at present worked at
Crofthead. The slaty band ironstone lies eleven fathoms below
this seam. It occurs in three layers or plies, averaging in all
about fourteen inches thick, the lower layer having from half an
inch to one inch of coal adhering to the bottom of it. The strata
above the slaty band is composed of shale, which contains balls
of ironstone, which are worked along with the slaty band in the
"following," or part of the overlaying strata, which is taken down
in order to make the workings the proper height. From twenty-
three to twenty-five fathoms below the slaty band, there is a bed
of ironstone balls, which contain a very high per centage of iron.
These balls lie in a bed of clay, from four to four and a half feet
thick. From forty-five to forty-eight fathoms below this bed,
there is another bed of ironstone balls, from two to two and a-half
feet thick, lying below a mixture of sandstone and clay, the floor
being composed of bastard limestone, from one foot to sixteen
inches thick.  Sixteen fathoms below this, there is a bed of lime-
stone, which probably belongs to the limestone series which occum
at Levenseat, in the county of Edinburgh, and which lies beneath
it. Below this, the coals which are found at Wilsontown, Wood-
muir, and Longford, in the counties of Lanark and Edinburgh,
occur. The series to which the slaty band belongs lies between
the Levenseat limestone and the west country coal, called the
Drumgray coal. There appears to be a great mass of sandstone
between the slaty band series and the Levenseat limestone. It
is considered a doubtful point whether the slaty band field extends
much beyond the district in which it is at present worked. It
has been found at Langside, in the parish of Shotts, and was sup-
posed to have been found about a mile and a-half south front
Crofthead.
   "Although now so highly prized, the real nature and valuable
properties of this kind of ironstone was, until within these few
years, almost unknown. It was worked about forty years ago by
the Wilsontown Iron Company, on the lands of Wester Hardax-
wood, in the county of Edinburgh; but its valuable properties
were then unknown and it was supposed that it did not extend
to the north  side of Breich Water, whereas the greater part of


