
192                          ARGYLESHIRE.

haps interpretation of the school act the heritors are relieved
from all legal claims as to accommodations; and accordingly in
these respects, the teachers are wholly dependent, either on their
own resources or on the liberality of the proprietors. One of the
teachers is entirely unaccommodated, and thus his usefulness is
in a great measure impaired.  During the winter and spring
months, several teachers are usuall employed by the people them-
selves in remote localities.  The schools taught by these during
the last winter are included in the statement about to be submit-
ted; but with this explanation, that they have been in operation, as
is usually the case, only during the winter months, and that the sa-
lary allowed has not, as may easily be supposed, been adequate to
procure the services, in every instance at least, of qualified or ef-
ficient teachers.  The fluctuating and unsettled state in which
the parish has, for a considerable period, been kept, while under-
going a, change of proprietors, attended, as might naturally be ex-
pected, by a change of system and management, has occasioned
considerable difficulty in effecting arrangements for the establish-
ment of Assembly and other schools,-while with regret it must
be here also recorded, that the advantages of education do not
appear in some instances to be so highly appreciated as readily to
secure the very small sacrifice,  if such it can be called, which the
comfortable establishment of schools requires.  Three additional
schools are yet required.  Owing to the scattered state of the po-
pulation and physical obstructions of the country, it is difficult to
render schools, however numerous, available, or accessible to all
localities; and, no doubt, the ambulatory system, which formed
part of the well-defined arrangements of the Educational Societies
of the south, may, in the present state of the country be resorted
to with the very best effects, provided its operations are placed, as
has not always been the case in the instances referred to, under
wise and prudent control.  The people, generally speaking, seem
to perceive the advantages of education, both as qualifying for the
life that now, is and that Which is to come. The effects which
increased "facilities of education" have had upon their morals and
conduct, would lead to a disquisition incompatible with the limits
here allowed.  It is obvious, however, that to the very extent to
which they are becoming a reading people, Highlanders are ac-
quiring, along with other useful information, more defined and dis-
tinct views of the great and peculiar doctrines of the Gospel.  In
former times, religions knowledge was, in a great measure, commu


