
                   KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN.               47

eight in number, all regularly ordained as elders. The parish is
divided into districts, and an elder appointed to officiate in each
district,-all of whom give in regular reports to the session. The
register of births and marriages has been regularly kept from the
year 1748. A register previous to that period evidently did exist,
but only a few leaves of it remaining, its contents were carefully
transcribed into the present register. A very elegant and massy
service of plate, consisting of two handsome silver communion cup,
and a large silver flaggon, was lately gifted to the session by the
late Mrs M'Leod of London, a native of this parish, daughter of
the late Mr Urquhart of Kinbeachie, a venerable and truly pious
and excellent person. The session records have been duly kept
only since the induction of the present incumbent in 1822. Previously,
and for the space of forty-seven years, there was neither a
regularly constituted session, nor, of course, any records whatever,
-the books containing the minutes of session before that period
having been burned.
  Heritors-Improvements.-The united parish is divided among
nine heritors, three of whom only are resident. The rest either
do not reside in it at all, or visit it only occasionally. Colin M'Kenzie,
Esq. of Newhall, is patron of the parish, and proprietor of
about the one-half of it.
  The number of acres imperial in the parish cannot be exactly
stated. The property is occupied chiefly by small tenants having
farms not exceeding 40 or 50 acres. There are only three
large farms, the largest not exceeding 130 acres. Much of the latter
is waste land, capable of improvement either by trenching or
planting, but which has been suffered to remain in this state in consequence
of the property having been long encumbered with debt,
and in the hands of trustees for the behoof of the creditors. The
present proprietor, though in easy circumstances, is advanced in life
and unmarried; and the estate, being strictly entailed, passes after his
death, into the possession of a distant relation,-circumstances which
prevent him from projecting any improvements whatever. The
mansion-house is a chaste, and elegant modern building. The present
proprietor has built a very commodious and handsome square
of office-houses, with which he has burdened the heirs of entail.
   The next property in point of extent is that of Poyntzfield. The
present proprietor is George Gunn Munro, Esq. This estate may
be about one-fourth of the extent and rental of the parish. The


