
320                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

                        II-CIVIL HISTORY.
   No separate account of the parish is known, previous to thae
contributed by the late incumbent, the Rev. William Moir, to the
old Statistical Account; but various interesting notices, especial-
ly in relation to the church, the priory, and the chapel of St Rule
at Folla, are contained in the "Chartularies of Arbroath and
Aberdeen," in the Advocates' Library of Edinburgh; in the Char-
tulary of Aberdeen, and Chaplain's Register, in the Library of
King's College; * and in a view of the Diocese of Aberdeen, ma-
nuscript, in the Advocates' Library, supposed to be written by Sir
Samuel Forbes of Foveran.
   Historical Events.-In the year 1296, the Castle of "Fyvin"
appears to have been visited by Edward I. of England, in his
progress through Scotland. + In 1395, the "Castel of Fivy,"
which must have then been a place of considerable strength, was
defended by the "gud lady" of Sir James Lindesay, though "as-
segit straitly" by her undutiful nephew, Robert de Keith, son of
the Marischal, till her husband came to her relief, and "quyte
discumfyted" the said Robert and his adherents near the kirk of
Bourty. ++
   In 1644, Montrose took possession of Fyvie Castle; but not
thinking it tenable against the superior force of Argyle, he retired
to an eminence a little to the north-eastward, which he defended
with great bravery for several days, and then marched by night to
Strathbogie.  The entrenchments are still distinctly to be seen,
and the ground goes by the name of Montrose Camp.  One of
Argyle's encampments also on the lands of Ardlogie is still cal-
led the Camp-fold.
   Papers and Charters.-Allusion has already been made to some
documents in the Chartularies of Arbroath and Aberdeen, con-
nected with the parochial history of Fyvie.  Of these one relates
to a perrambulation held in 1325, in virtue of a brieve from King
Robert Bruce, to fix the marches between the King's park of
"Fyvin," and the lands of Ardlogie, belonging to the Abbey of
Arbroath.  Several others refer to a dispute between the Bishop
of Aberdeen and the husbandman of Formartine, in 1382, about

<FOOTNOTE>For much that is contained in the department of Civil History, I have to ac-
knowldege my obligations to Mr Taylor, late librarian of King's College, and Mr
Gordon of Fyvie, who kindly permitted a full search of the old charters and other
papers connected with Fyvie Castle.
          Edward I.'s Diary, Bannatyne Miscellany, Vol. i. p. 278.
          Wyntown's Crhon. if. p. 371-373.


