
     of Inverness.

after a duty was granted by Government upon exported
corn in the year 1688, are so complicated, that an attempt
to unsold them on such an occasion as the present might be
deemed unnecessarily tedious.  Suffice it to say respecting
the skin-trade, that the remote Highlanders and islanders
by their agents found the way to Glasgow, which they
have long considered as the more eligible market.  In the
year 1746, the town began to revive, and from that period
to the present, particularly in the last thirty years, has been
in a rapid progress of improvement.  At this time it may
be said to be wholly new built; its old limits are consider-
ably extended, and yearly extending.  The money circula-
ted by the army after the suppression of the rebellion in the
year 1746, the great influx of money from the East and
West Indies, the establishment of manufactures, the conse-
quent improvements in agriculture, the rise in the value of
land, and the consumption of luxuries, are evidently the
causes of the increasing prosperity of this burgh*.  The
harbour is safe and commodious, and kept in excellent

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The town-council of Inverness consist of 21 members.  They have
a clerk and a clerk-depute.  The old council every year at the term of
Michaelmas elect a new council.  The new council elect out of their
number, a Provost, 4 Baillies, a Dean of Guild and a Treasurer.  The
Provost however is commonly continued in office for the space of 3 years.
The Bailies, the Dean of Guild, and the Treasurer, for 2 years.  There are
6 corporations of craftsmen, viz Hammermen, including smiths, tinsmiths,
coppersmiths, silversmiths, watchmakers, braziers cutlers saddlers 2d,
Wrights, including house-carpenters, cabinet-makers, wheel-weights and
coopers. 3 d, Weavers. 4th, Tailors 5th, Shoemakers, and 6th, Skinners.
These corporations elect annually at Michaelma 6 deacons and 6 box-
masters or treasurers, each corporation its own peculiar deacon and box-
master.  The 6 deacons elect a deacon convener, to preside over and to
attend to the interests of all the corporations. They elect at the same
time a general boxmaster The 6 corporations are represented in the
town-council by their deacon convener, who by virtue of his office is a
member, and by two deacons annually elected by the town-council.
There are besides the above several other crafts which are not corporate,
viz. masons, cart-wrights, bakers, butchers, and barbers.

</UNREADABLE>

     VOL. IX. 4 I


