
336                           AYRSHIRE.

only mines now extensively wrought are those of Patna and Keirs.
Coal has been found in four different quarters of the parish. Of
late, Patna is the only colliery that has been wrought to a great
extent. The mine at Patna runs through lst, 48 feet of rough
freestone. 2d, a bed of coarse sandstone; 3d, 3 1/2 feet smithy coal;
4th, 2 feet, of slaty stone ; 5th, 12 feet coal; 6th, 6 feet grey stone;
7th, 6 feet coal. The declivity is 1 foot in 5, and the dip 1 in
3. The limestone at Keirs abounds with petrified marine shells,
chiefly bivalve. The soil is very various. On the banks of the
Girvan it is gravelly and light; on the borders of the Doon it is
clayey and retentive.
     Zoology.--The streams abound with trout, and in favourable
seasons salmon are numerous in the Doon and Girvan. The lakes
are full of trout and pike. Par are never seen beyond Tarelaw
fall, another proof to the many which naturalists have, that they
must have an access to the sea, though it is remarkable that the
nature of so common a fish should still be a question in science.
The moors abound with grouse and black game. Roe-deer have
been seen two or three times lately. Two pair of eagles usually
have their cyries in the higher part of the parish, and one more
than seven feet between the extremities of the wings was lately
shot, on the farm of Star.
	Botany.--To classify the indigenous plants in such an exten-
sive parish would require a long period of study. The quantity
of natural wood is a very pleasing feature in the scenery of the
parish. Sir D. Hunter Blair has planted extensively on his lands;
the Honourable Colonel Macadam Cathcart has also large plan-
tations around Berbeth. The Marquis of Ailsa, with 25,000 acres
of property, has not more than an acre under wood, if the stand-
ard trees near the village be excluded. There are some fine old
trees, chiefly sycamore, around the village and manse. The old
wood around Blairquhan gives great beauty to the mansion, par-
ticularly a dark avenue formed by two ranges of lofty lime trees.
The most remarkable trees in the parish are the Dool trees of
Blairquhan, on which the barons, id the olden times, hung the cul-
prits that were under their jurisdiction.

		     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Notices.-Chalmers in his Caledonia gives an ac-
count of the parish. There is also a slight notice of it in a small
work of Mr Abercrombie, minister of Maybole, during the preva-


