
156			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	On the west side of the loch, between it and the public road,
there is still pointed out a small piece of rising ground, as the
Gallows Slote, or pit into which the victims of the cruelty or re-
venge of the Earls of Douglas were cast after being hanged on
the gallows knob, a large block of granite projecting from the front
wall of Thrieve Castle, immediately over the main gateway.
There is a difficulty, however, in accounting for this charnel be-
ing situated at the distance of more than a mile from the castle,
while the carcasses could have been so much more readily dispos-
ed of in the neighbouring marshes, or in the river that flowed un-
der the very walls. Some, therefore, regard this piece of ground
as the gallows slote, on the top of which, it is said, stood a gibbet,
upon which those unhappy persons who incurred the displeasure
of the Douglasses were executed. Be this as it may, the fact
is indisputable, that this piece of ground was used, if not as
a place of execution, at least as a receptacle for the bodies of
criminals; for the popular tradition to this effect was strikingly
corroborated in the year 1800, when, in making the present high-
way, abundance of human bones were turned up in this spot. On
this gallows, it is stated in the old Statistical Account, that Maclel-
lan, tutor of Bombie, was executed by the command of Douglas, not-
withstanding the King's letters demanding his release. This ac-
count, however, differs from that which is given by the best authors,
as Pinkerton, Hume of Godscroft, Balfour, Buchanan, Hume,
Scott, and Tytler, who all agree that Maclellan was beheaded in
the court of Thrieve Castle,--a grim and frowning stronghold
that stands on an island surrounded by the Dee, about a mile from
the high road, from which it is visible. The same writer states,
that "The remains of Raeberry (Maclellan) lie buried in the
church of Kirkcormock, as appears from the inscription upon a
gravestone there." But Crawford, in his Peerage, says, that "Sir
Patrick Maclellan was interred in the abbey church of Dundren-
nan, under a monument of freestone." This account is the more
probable, as Dundrennan was the family burying-place of the
Maclellans, and not far from their castle of Raeberry. The in-
scription upon the stone in the church of Kirkcormock is in old
Runic characters, now hardly legible. Enough, however, has been
made out to show, that it was erected to perpetuate the memory of
a young man of the same name, who died upwards of eighty years
after the murder of the tutor of Bombie. It is, "Honorabilis Pa-
tricius Maclellan qui obit anno M.DXXXIV. anno xviii aetatis."

