
76                              PEEBLES-SHIRE.

To the coals and lime, one over the top of a mountain, impassable
by a heavy loaded cart in the heat of summer, and the other through
mire equally impassable, except during the dry months.  A small
outlay would procure a good and level road both for coal and lime.
   Another great disadvantage is the want of a bridge over the
Tweed, which, when swelled, as it frequently is, by the rains of
winter, completely intercepts all communication betwixt the opposite
banks.  There can be no doubt but the farmers would pay better
rents, if they were only favoured with better access to the markets.
and to lime and coal.  There is a post-office at Rachan Mill,
about a mile distant.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is not very convenient-
ly situated, being considerably farther from one end of the parish
that the other.  It is in a good state of repair, and may contain near-
ly 200 sitters.  The average attendance is about 85 or 90.  Young
people generally communicate when about 15 or 16 years of age.
   The manse was built in 1787, and has undergone several repairs.
The glebe is ten Scots acres, worth L. 1 per acre.
   The stipend consists of 89 bolls, 3 firlots, 3 1/2 lippies, barley ;
91 bolls, 1 firlot, 3 pecks, 1 1/2 lippies, oatmeal ;  10 bolls oatmeal
for Dawick glebe, all allocated according to the old weights and
measures.  The teinds are exhausted.  The average amount of
stipend for the last three years has been L. 198, 8s. 8d.
   This parish was united to Tweedsmuir previous to the year
1643 ;  when they were disjoined, Dawick was suppressed in 1742 ;
and part of it joined to Drummelzier, and part to Stobo.  The glebe
of Dawick and some servitudes are divided equally betwixt the
ministers of Drummelzier and Stobo, for which they receive 10 bolls
of oatmeal each, according to the Mid-Lothian fiars.
   There are no dissenters of any description in the parish at present.
   Education.--The parish school is the only one in the parish.
At present there are no Latin scholars, though there was a con-
siderable number a few years ago.  English costs 2s. per quarter ;
with writing, 2s. 6d., with arithmetic, 3s. 6d., and with Latin, 4s. 6d.
The salary is L. 32, and the teacher has all the legal accommoda-
tion.  The average amount of school fees during the last three years is
L. 10, 2s. 3d.  The people are fully alive to the benefits of edu-
cation, and all can read who are of age sufficient to attent school.
Part of the population is betwixt three and five miles from the pa-
rish school, but are within reach of a school in the neighbouring
parish.  It is worthy of remark, that the session record, betwixt
the years 1650 and 1660, bears, that the minister interrogated all


