
546                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

chamber is 16 feet 6 inches, breadth, 6 feet 6 inches, and height,
6 feet, and precisely of the same construction as the outer.  The
whole length of the house, including both chambers, is thus 48
feet 6 inches.
   Rings and Coins.-In 1822, in digging the foundation of a dike,
on the north side of the hill, opposite to Garchory, were found
two rings and several hundred silver coins.  One of the rings is
gold, with a small dark sapphire.  A ring precisely similar was
discovered 16th July 1829, with other relics, in the coffin of a
bishop of Chichester, in the cathedral of that city.  The date of
the tomb is A. D. 1146.
   The other was a broken iron gilt ring, with a pale sapphire,
and is very similar to many Arabian and Indian rings.
   The coins are nearly all of Henry III. of England.  Some of
them are of William the Lion of Scotland, and two of them of
King John.  A portion of them was divided into halves, and
others into quarters.  Those of Henry III. have on the obverse,
the King's hbead, full-faced and crowned, holding the sceptre with
a cross patee : reverse, a cross with a small cross in each quarter.
   They all have the names of the towns where they were coined,
and of the mint-masters.  Such as SIMVN ON + CANT-(Canter-
bury.)
   The coins of William have the King's head in profile on the
obverse, holding the seeptre with a cross.  Reverse, a cross with
a star in each quarter.
   Those of King John are stamped with a triangle on both sides.
The effigy on the obverse is within the triangle.  They are much
defaced.
   Modern Buildings.-The house of Newe is a handsome modern
edifice, built in 1831, of Kildrummy freestone-Mr Simpson, ar-
chitect.  The style is a happy combination of the manor-house
of James I.'s time, and the Henusk.  The skill of the archi-
tect hasbeen ingeniously exercised in adapting the old house,
(which was to be preserved) to part of the plan, without at all in-
terfering with the elegant suite of rooms on the principal floor.
The portico, the vestibule, and the corridor, which are lighted
with stained glass, are very successful efforts of architectural
genius.
   The house of Candacraig is a mixture of the Elizabethan and
Scotch manor-house-Mr Smith, architect.  Built in 1835, of gra-
nite, chiefly taken from a quarry which was fortunately discovered


