
     Of Kirkmichael.

value of it may be about 6 L.*.  The church was built in
1747, and has been never since repaired.  As a house of
worship, it would appear to a stranger to be totally deserted.
A few broken windows mark the sable walls:  The glass is
broken, and gives free access to the winds from all the car-
dinal points.  Were the people enthusiasts, a little current of
air might be necessary to cool them; but in their present dis-
position, they frequently complain of the inroads of the cold,
to disturb them in their sober meditations; yet they never
express a wish to remove the inconvenience.  Their apathy
is the more extraordinary, as his Grace the Duke of Gordon,
is ever ready to listen to the representations of his people,
and never refuses to grant them a just and equitable request.
Sir James Grant is patron of the parish.  From 1717, till
1786, the stipend of this parish was no more than 47 L. 4 s.
5 1/3 d. Sterling.  During the latter of these years, his Grace the
Duke of Gordon, informed of the smallness of the living,
was pleased to bestow upon the present incumbent, without
the painful feeling of solicitation, a gratuitous augmentation;
and this at a time when the Court of Session were inimical
to such claims.  The stipend, at present, is 68 L. 6 s. 8 d.
Sterling, with 10 L. Sterling, allowed by his Grace for a house.
It will not be deemed a digression, to mention that his Grace
gave a farm to the present incumbent, at a moderate rent,
when an advanced one, and a fine of 20 guineas were offered
by others.-There are 2 schools; a Society one at Tammtoul,

     3 I 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*No grass is annexed, except a share of the common hill pasturage.  It lies
at the distance of 3 computed miles from the moss, to which there is bad road,
rising into ascents, and falling into declivities.  In rainy weather, a kind of
gully contiguous to it, becomes impassable, which frequently prevents the mi-
nister from getting home his fuel in the proper season.  Owing to this circum-
stance, he is generally ill supplied, and olbliged to accommodate himself at some
distance in the neighbourhood, at a considerable expense.


