
			CRAILING.                        185

    of Glasgow; a circumstance which gave rise to questions between
    the Bishop and Abbot as to supremacy. -"At length, however,
    these altercations in respect to dignities, liberties, customs, rents,
    vicarages, lands, pastures, &c., were brought to a quiet end in A. D.
    1220, by the arbitration of five discreet referees within the chapel
    of Nisbet before many auditors."
	There are no dissenting places of worship in this parish, but se-
    cession from the Established Church has existed for many years to
    a great extent in this district. It is not the province of a report
    like this to assign the causes. It may be but justice, however, to
    state, that I have hitherto seen among dissenters very little of
    bigotted attachment to their own sect, and scarce anything of hos-
    tility to the Establishment. The vicinity of Jedburgb, where there
    are three dissenting churches, -two of the United Secession, and
    one Relief, -affords ample opportunity for dissent; and here all the
    dissenters in this parish, with the exception of one or two families,
    find accommodation. In regard to the relative numbers of church-
    men and dissenters, it may be mentioned, that, out of twelve resi-
    dent tenants, (exclusive of proprietors,) eight with their families
    are members of the Established Church, and out of a total of 129
    families, 66 belong to the Establishment, and 63 to the Secession
    or Relief bodies.
	We have no regularly constituted societies for religious purposes,
    but collections have been made in the church from time to time
    in aid of the propagation of the Gospel at home and abroad, and
    these have been liberal and encouraging; thus the average of
    those collections in furtherance of the General Assembly's scheme
    for diffusing the Gospel in India, gives L. 8 odds to each.
	The manse was built twenty years ago, is in good repair, and
    sufficiently large and commodious. Its present site is about the
    eighth of a mile farther north than where the old manse stood. The
    glebe lies chiefly in front, and the public road passes through part
    of it. The extent of glebe is about 9 1/2 English acres, and the
    land is of excellent quality. The minister of this parish is titular
    of the vicarage tithes, and formerly drew in kind the teind of lambs,
    wool, hay, hemp, and lint. In 1818, this privilege was commuted
    by authority of the Court of Session into L. 60 of money, and
    the grain stipend settled at thirteen chalders, one-half oat-meal,
    the other half barley. The average of the last five years gives
    about L. 250 per annum. There is an allowance, besides, of L. 8,
    6s. 8d. for communion elements.


