
86                            ORKNEY.

are several ponds, and one fresh-water loch of considerable extent
and depth,-a favourite resort of ducks and other aquatic fowl
during the winter and spring; and both this loch and the more
extensive one of Bea, in Cross parish, are occasionally visited by
flocks of wild swans, as they pass north or south in their vernal and
autumnal migrations. The mansion-houses of Scar and Saville
are situated about a mile apart,-tlie former on the west and the
latter on the east shores of the parish, surrounded by rich corn
fields and pleasant grassy links; and, in the garden at Saville,
apples and small fruit are produced.
The parish of Cross extends to about 4600 acres, of which fully
a fourth part is moorland, and another fourth part saiady downs
and links. The general appearance of this parish with all defe-
rence to the recorded opinion of a fair traveller who lately, from a
midnight view on the deck of a steatner, at the distance of sixteen
or eighteen miles, condemned the whole island to hopeless ugli-
ness),we-must be allowed to say is very beautiful. It is well shel-
tered from the west and north by the Island of Eday, separated
from it by a narrow sound varying from 11 to 3 miles wide, through
which the tides are constantly pouring with a velocity of not less
than eight miles an hour. This sound has much the appearance
of a noble river, and the resemblance is increased during the ebb-
tide by the foaming rapids, as they may be called, of Lasby- Roost
running nearly across the channel from side to side; and it is cu-
rious to observe with what dexterity the islanders guide their hand-
some-looking and neatly-rigged yawls through the breakers of the
Roost. On the east of Cross parish, Sanday Sound, dividing
Sanday from Stronsay and the adjacent holms, runs along, until it
leads into the Bay of Kettletoft, at the head of which Cross and
Lady parishes march.
   The land in Cross rises at two points to more than 300 feet
above the sea, and the surrounding islands, sounds, fritbs, and
bays, with the green and, generally fertile plains of Sanday itself,
present, from these points, one of the most delightful views the
can crest upon. One of these heights, called the Brae of Fe6,
falls only a very little distance towards the west ' when it terminates
in a precipice washed at bottom by the sea, and perforated by cti-
irious caverns; while on the east side the slope is gentle, and co-
vered with rich pasture graos, enamelled with the field-gentian,
the birds-eye primrose, the squill, -and other flowers, until it
reaches the reedy edge of Bea Loch on the property of How.


