
                    INVBERESK.                          263

district says, that he had got the length of Walliford, on the east-
ern confines of the parish, when intelligence was brought to the
magistrates, that he was dangerously ill.  They immediately took
such measures as they best could to provide for his accommoda-
tion, and bad him removed on a litter to the nearest house, with-
in the "east pore" of the burgh.  Relays of citizens are said to
have watched over the great man until he died;* and every luxu-
ry that the place could supply is said to have been gratefully offer-
ed by them.  In gratitude for their kind attentions, his nephew
and successor, the Earl of Marre, requested that they should make
some request regarding the extension of their municipal privileges,
which be would be proud to be the means of extending- Where-
upon they told bim, that "they wished nothing;" and were happy
to have bad an opportunity of doing what they considered their

<FOOTNOTE>The death of the great Randolph has formed a questio vexata with the Scottish
historians. That he died here and was buried at Dunfermline is indisputable (Bo-
wer's Continuat. of Fordun, Vol. ii. p. 300); it is the manner of his death which
has afforded scope for controversy.  Two of our best authorities, Hailes and Tytler,
are here at issue,--the former distinctly affirming, that, "amidst the excruciating
pains of a confirmed stone, he ceased not to discharge the duties of his office witb,ac-
tivity and vigilance, and expired on the march," (Annals ofScotland, Vol. ii p. 162) ;
whereas the latter maintains, that he died suddenly, without any apparent cause, and
not without the strongest suspicion of his having been poisoned, (History of Scotland,
Vol. ii.  P. 10.)
   The two oldest, and therefore likely to be most authentic authorities are on the
side of Mr Tytler.  Barbour was born in 1316, and was fifteen years old when Ran-
dolph died. In the Bruce, p. 423, we find,      .
		     "Bot syne allace ! pussynt was he;
		     To see his dede was great pitie."
   Winton was born about 1350, so only eighteen years after the event; and in his
Chronicle it is said,
		      Hym with venomous fell poyson
		      Be destroyed, and fell treasoun,
		      For at Wemyss be the se,
		      Poysound at a fest was he.--Vol. ii. p. 146.
   Fordun (a Hearne, p. 1018,) simply mentions the death, without the circumstan-
ces. His continuator, Bower, however, has this passage--speaking of the designs of
the disinherited barons against the Regent, he says, "Et ideo novam artem confinx-
erunt, et ut Italici ferunt, bello Tradimento, verius viii effecerunt, ut quidam frater
Anglicus, religione corruptus, dicto custodi familiaris capellanus, sibi venenum in vino
propinaret.  Quod et factum est ut supra." Lib. xiv. c. 50.
   All this is surely strong evidence, more especially as Lord Hailes seems to rest his
scepticism principally on the authority of Hector Boece, a writer by his own admis-
sion not a little given to romancing.  Hector admits both the stone and the poison-
ing; but Lord Hailes thinks that he has also furnished circumstances sufficient for
the confutation of the latter. "In calculum pramentissima habere remedia," writes
the old author regarding the supposed poisoner, "nam eo morbo Ranulpus admo-
durn vexatur."
   Who can decide, when doctors such as these disagree? If we admit the traditional
story which we have given, we must give our verdict for Lord Hailes.  It must have
been a slow poison indeed, that, given at Wemyss, did not operate save at Mussel-
burgh. The "tormina qusedam  ventris" may have arisen from some indigestible
condiment; but we think it more probable that this great man died of the stone ra-
ther than of the pretended doctor.


