
     of Lessudden or St Boswells.

rose, and 7 of Jedburgh, is from E. to W. about 3 miles
long.  Towards the E. it is narrow, but becomes broader to
the westward; and, at the broadest, may be about a mile and
a half, or near 2 miles wide.  The soil, in general, is good;
that which lies on the banks of the Tweed, and in sundry
other places of the parish, is fine; and even the grounds
which are the worst, are capable of great improvement, by
the use of lime or marl.  Of late, much has been done, and
the spirit of cultivation continues to operate.  The expence
of improving with lime is great, as the lime must come either
from the Lothian kilns, or those on the border of England.
Each cart-load, drawn by 2 horses, and consisting of 12 fir-
lots, costs from 10 s. to 12 s. Six, eight, or nine of these
cart-loads, according to the nature of the ground, are em-
ployed upon an acre; but this expence is many times repaid
with interest, from the melioration of the land.  Fine wheat
has been raised on some pieces of land in this parish, which,
less than 40 years ago, were thought incapable of producing
such a valuable article.  Wheat is raised in due proportion to
the extent of the farms every where in the parish, which, in
many places, yields to none in Teviotdale in point of quality.
In the whole, from 450 to 500 bolls are raised annually.
Barley is cultivated in proportional plenty, and with success;
and the same may be said of oats and pease.  On the lands
near Tweedside, the cold seed pease are commonly sown,
and as commonly productive of fine-crops.  In sundry places,
turnips either are or may be sown with advantage; they are
found to grow to a good size.  The whole lands are remark-
ably well adapted for yielding fine crops of grass.
   The principal market for the wheat raised here is Dalkeith.
Peebles furnishes a demand for a good deal. A considerable
quantity of the barley is disposed of at Melrose, some at Dal-
keith and elsewhere, beside what is ground with pease into


