
                            EDINBURGH.                    621

cies of the Stigmaria, Lepidodendrom, Sigillaria, and other plants of
the coal beds, are abundant, especially in the upper beds of the
quarry. Above all is a diluvial covering of several feet in depth;
consisting of clay with large boulders and clay nodules containing
coprolites and other exuviae of fishes.
   There are several springs of water in and around Edinburgh;
and water is readily found in most situations, by cutting through
the sandstone strata.
   St Bernard's Well, on the banks of the Water of Leith, possesses
very considerable mineral properties. It contains sulphuretted
hydrogen gas and iron, with a slight admixture of other salts.
A spring at Bonnington contains carbonic acid and other mineral
alkaline salts.
   Botany.-Perhaps few cities possess within its immediate boun-
daries such a variety of botanical productions as Edinburgh. On
Arthur Seat, there are not fewer than 400 species of plants. Some
of these are perhaps not strictly indigenous, the fancy or partiality
of botanists having naturalised several there to the soil. Yet the
diversity of hill and valley, and the favourable exposures and con-
genial soil at all seasons of vegetation, afford an interesting treat
to the lovers of the simple productions of nature.
   On the slopes and hollows of this beautiful hill will be found,
among others, the Asplenium septentrionale, Arenaria verna, Po-
tentilla verna, Salvia verbenaca, Euonymus Europaus, or spindle
tree, and Pyrus Aria, or white beam. A considerable variety of
mosses and lichens also cover the green sward, and clothe the
hoary and rugged rocks around.
   Zoology.-The zoological specimens are no less abundant in
this favoured locality. Although so near the hum of the great
city, the hare is not unfrequently seen limping across the hollows
of Arthur's Seat. The fox is also an occasional visitor; while
the note of the cuckoo never fails to enliven the long and still
summer evening. The Papilip Artaxerxes, a butterfly not common
in other parts of Scotland, is found in the King's Park. The La-
certa agilis and Anguis fragilis, two reptiles, are also not unfre-
quent among the debris of Salisbury Crags. While in the same
localities a great variety of shell molluscs-the Helix, Bulimus,
Succinia, Pupa, Clausilia, and many others, are found in great
plenty.
   The blue-backed shrike (Lanius excubitor) is an inhabitant of
Arthur's Seat. The kestril builds its nest on the Castle rock;
   EDINBURGH.                      R r


