
                         URQUHART.                             45

as a fishing boat. The small lake, called the Loch of Cotts, hav-
ing been drained about thirty-three years ago, there is now no lake
in the parish; neither are there hills in it deserving the name, yet
the names of places would indicate that it abounded in both. It
must appear somewhat strange that the elevation of places called
Longhill, Broomhill, Lochhill, Gladhill, and Hills, should not ex-
ceed twenty-five feet above the level of the sea; and that the in-
habitants of Easter Lochs, and Wester Lochs should be but in-
differently supplied with water even for domestic purposes. There
is no river in the parish ; the only streams which run through it
are three small brooks or rivulets, on one of which there are two
mills, one for grinding corn, and the other for sawing timber; on
another of them a corn mill has been lately erected by a tenant in
the neighbourhood, as a speculation, and is sufficiently employed.
Thirlage being abolished, the tenants are at liberty to grind their
corns at any mill they please.
   With the exception of a plain of about 2 1/2 square miles on the
north-west, elevated not more than ten feet above the level of the
sea, the surface of this parish is unequal and waving, but no where
so steep as to render more than two horses necessary for drawing
the plough. The general appearance of this parish is beautiful,
the moors having been long since planted, and every barren hillock
in the arable part of it covered with a clump of fir trees.
   Finfan Well.-Near the line which divides Urquhart from Spey,
mouth, at a place called Finfan, there is a well which is resorted
to in the summer season by a few invalids, (not more perhaps
than five or six) for the recovery of their health. It does not ap-
pear that the water of it has been analyzed, but its taste and smell
resemble those of the Stratbpeffer spa, and its effects are said to be
the same; and it might have attained to equal celebrity had it had
the good fortune to be recommended with the eloquence and zeal
by which the late Dr Morrison brought the Strathpeffer spa into
suck high repute. General Sir James Duff, who till lately was in
the habit of spending a part of the summer at Innes House, built
a neat cottage at Finfan, and placed a person in it to keep the
well and furnish water to occasional visitors. Sir Jame, while at
Innes House, visited this well almost every day; owing to which
circumstances, and the trouble and expense he put himself to re-
specting it, it is now usually called Sir James's well.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-About half a mile from the church, and near to


