
                          AYR.                                 53

but it is never taken for sale. Shell-fish of every kind are scarce.
A few lobsters and crabs are caught in traps placed on the outside
of sunk rocks, in the bay. The black rock, near the Troon, is a fa-
vourite haunt for them, where they are occasionally taken. The
mode of catching white fish followed here, is with long lines.
Each boat works from 12 to 14 lines, each line having 1800
hooks suspended from it, at the distance of an ell from each other.
The bait used for small fish is mussel, from about Lammas till
April, and a worm dug from sandy shores, left dry at ebb-tide, call-
ed lug, during the remaining part of the year. The bait used for
large fish is herrings and small whitings, which are both taken
in preference to haddocks and other small fish. The lines for
small fish are all shot or laid in before day-break, and immediate-
ly thereafter taken up. In fishing cod, &c. in deep water, lines
may be shot in day-light. Turbot is chiefly fished with nets, and
it is not many years since it began to be fished at all, or was
known to exist in the bay. Next to salmon, this fish is now the
favourite for dinner parties.
	Manufactures.--It has often been a matter of surprise, that Ayr
has not been more benefited by manufactures and public works,--
possessing as, it does, so many advantages for this purpose, and
such facilities of communication with other places both by sea and
land. With such an extensive grain country, surrounding it, dis-
tilleries could not fail to thrive; the price of labour is low rated,
and all the other requisites are easily procurable. Cotton works
might prosper as well here as at Catrine, the town being as
favourably situated in regard to all the materials necessary,--coal,
water, and labourers in abundance; while it has greatly the ad-
vantage, by enjoying the means of sea as well as of land carriage.
And we can see nothing to hinder the manufacture of wool in its
various branches, particularly in the weaving of carpets, from suc-
ceeding as well in this place as in Kilmarnock, which owes to this
cause so much of its wealth and prosperity.
	Carpets.--We are glad to have it in our power to bring for-
ward to view one instance of successful enterprise in the ma-
nufacturing line in this town, and to hold it up as an example
of what might be done, on a more extensive scale, with every
prospect of the happiest results, both as regards the investment
Of money, and the extension of employment among our operatives
population. We allude to the large and thriving establishment of
Mr Templeton, for the spinning of wool and the manufacture
of carpets; and we mention it thus particularly, because it is the


