
     The Statistical Account.

parish, Lord Kinnaird, the proprietor, has erected a large
granary that will contain six thousand bolls of victuals.
   It is omitted in Vol iv. No. 25. though the account for-
merly given of this parish bore it, that flax feed is sown, and
though not in great quantities, yet of late years, sundry far-
mers have got premiums for raising flax.  Most of the far-
mers here also sow turnip for their cattle, and plant po-
tatoes, which are found to be good feeding both for their
horses and cattle, only they need to be well cleaned.
   There are several orchards in this parish.  Also, several
good quarries, particularly one adjoining to this village of
Inchture, and another at the village of Ballindean; the stones
in both quarries are of a reddish colour, can be raised of any
size, are easily dressed, stand the weather well, and do take a
fine polish.-My attention has of late been particularly
called to notice this.  In my former account, Vol. iv. No. 25,
it is said, the manse is old, but this Summer a new one is
building in a much better situation than the old one; and a
new set of offices on a neat plan is likewise to be built.
   In this village there is a stamp-office, where a great deal of
cloth is stamped, chiefly Osnaburg, and a thin cloth, call-
ed Silesia.  Coals are the only fuel in the parish; they are
got at the pier of Pol, or Powgavie, price in general about
L. 3 the chalder, 52 stones for the boll.
   The number of threshing mills are increasing daily in this
part of the country.  There are now 8 or 9 in this parish,
and probably there will yet be more; they are found to be a
great improvement, and answer a good purpose to tile farmers
when straitened for time, and when there is a good market
for their victual.-In regard to these mills, there is prodi-
gious mistake in Vol. iv. No. 25, page 193; the truth is, the
mill that goes by water, threshes at an average from 5 to 8
bolls in an hour; and it can be well attested, that, at one
     L 2


