
                          MELROSE.                         55

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  Accounts of the Parish.-The ancient accounts of the history
of the parish are, the Chronicle of Mailross, which was kept in the
monastery, in monkish Latin, and which, beginning with the year
735, ends in 1270; the first part being only an abridgement of
previous history, intended to serve as an introduction to the chro-
nicle, properly so called;-the Chartulary of Melrose, compre-
hending the munificent grants and benefactions, royal and private,
with which the abbey was from time to time enriched;-and the
accounts of various monkish historians, of whom Bede is the chief.
The modern accounts are Redpath's Border History; Morton's
Monastic Annals of Tiviotdale; a history of the parish of Mel-
rose by Milne, one of its former ministers, and another by Bower,
the present custodier of the abbey. *
   Parochial Registers.-The only manuscript accounts of the his-
tory of the parish known to the writer are contained in the paro-
chial registers, which begin in 1630, and are continued down to
the present day, with a single break of four years between 1686-90.
This interval, corresponding with the years of persecution, seems
to indicate the troubles of the time, of which, however, there is no
mention made. +
   The number of persons who appear by the list of penitents to
have incurred church censure in that age is incredible,-far ex-
ceeding the average of the present day, when the population is
nearly trebled.  How is this to be accounted for and reconciled

<FOOTNOTE>Milne, though a man of respectable talent and research, seems to have had the
foible of mistaking for Roman encampments old sheep fields, e. g. his two Castra ex-
ploratorum.  What he calls a Roman encampment on the top of the Eildons, may
easily have been a border fastness, to which the cattle of the neighbourhood might be
driven on the approach of the enemy; for there are no distinct indications observable
from which it can be inferred that it was Roman, and his Roman road across Bowden
moor is proven, by a curious old charter lately discovered, to have been a boundary,
line between the adjoining properties of the Kelso and the Melrose monastery.
    The oldest part of these registers records very particularly the transactions of
each week, giving both the preacher's name and the subject on which he spoke, with
enormous weekly lists of penitents who were subjected to the presbyterian penance.
The oldest part of them also contains curious notices of the public events of the
period, which are highly interesting and worthy of atttention, as they serve to shew the
impression which historical events of importance made upon the public mind `t the
time they occurred.  For example, an attempt of a detachment of the army of
Charles the First upon the insurgent depot at Dunse in the course of that monarch's
second Scottish campaign, with the subsequent blowing up of Dunglass House is thus
noticed.--30th August,1640.--" Mr William Wilkie preached, but, being interrupt-
ed at midd sermon, because of the Inglishmen that came from Berwick to Dunse,
thinking to carrie away our cannon, powder, and lead with them; but, blessed be God,
they got the foyle returned with shame, being beat back with a few.  But upon
the same night ane pityfull accident there was at Doughlass, where my Lord Had-
dington of worthie memorie, with others, was betrayed with powder, so that
the house was blown up, and they were smoored in the close the lyke whereof was
never heard in Scotland."


