
<APPENDIX>

xcv

   7. General County Statements.-It is proposed, in the last place, to lay
before the reader a general view of the state of each County, exhibiting at
one glance, a summary of those articles, with regard to which, an active
and public-spirited Statesman, would be most anxious to procure informa-
tion.

   It is impossible to expect, that all these particulars, whether regarding
parishes or counties, can be given in so very exact a state, as to escape the
remarks of little critics, though it is believed that they will be sufficiently
correct, to answer very useful purpose of inquiry; and the foundation
being once laid, there can be no doubt, that by perseverance, and farther in-
vestigation, they may ultimately be brought to such a state of minute per-
fection, as may be judged necessary by the public.

     III. GENERAL COMPUTATIONS.

   The great object of the Statistical Inquiry, was to accomplish, what had
hitherto never been even attempted, namely, to ascertain the internal struc-
ture of Society.  Various ingenious authors have perplexed themselves and
then readers, by puzzling themselves about what they termed the productive
and unproductive classes, without having ever analysed the real estate of a po-
litical community.  By the assistance of the Clergy of Scotland, I have been
enabled to resolve a problem hitherto involved in mystery.  The various
classes into which a society, containing about 1,550,000 fouls, is divided,
the modes by which they respectively obtain their subsistence, and the
means by which then condition may be improved, will be explained with a
degree of precision hardly to be expected in a first attempt.-Information
of that fort, however, only becomes interesting, in proportion to the scale
on which it is given, and hence it seems more desirable, to reserve all discus-
sions concerning the classes of society, or the distribution of a political com-
munity, for those general computations, which will be drawn up, when
the general state of the kingdom is explained.  At the same time, as
this Work may fall into the hands of numbers, who may not have an oppor-
tunity of perusing the general Statistical Account of Scotland, the curiosity
of many readers will be gratified, by perusing the following Table, trans-
mitted by the Reverend Mr Morrice, the intelligent Minister of Kincardine
O'Niel.  The nature of the various particulars will there appear, respecting
which, returns from every district cannot be looked for, and consequently,
where general computations are greatly to be preferred.


