
772                               FIFESHIRE.

tunate family who suffered so much by opposing the Covenant-
ers. Dr John Spottiswood of Dairsie was Archbishop of St
Andrews and Chancellor of Scotland about 1590. His son, Sir
Robert, recovered many records and documents about the Scot-
tish Church from abroad, which had been carried away by the
monks at the time of the Reformation. He was beheaded at St
Andrews, 1646, by decree of Parliament assembled there.
Captain John Spottiswood, younger of Dairsie, was put to death
in Edinburgh, 1650, at the same time as was the gallant and re-
nowned James Graham, Marquis of Montrose, and many others.
In 1646, Sir John Spottiswood conveyed Dairsie to Sir G. Mor-
rison, Knight, and it was adjudged by his creditors, and purchased
by Thomas Earl of Kincardine for L.73, 636, 3s. 4d. Scots. In
1772, it was again sold by the Earl then of Elgin and Kincar-
dine, to General Scott of Balcomy, and falling to his eldest
daughter Henrietta, who was married to the Duke of Portland,
it was purchased by Mr Barnes of London, and afterwards became
disjohned, in consequence of speculating purchasers, until it re-
mains with the heritors already enumerated.
   On the estate of Dairsie is a pleasant small residence, called
Dairsie Cottage, of modern date, and surrounded with wood. It
stands to the west of the castle, overlooking the Eden. A num-
ber of years since, it was occupied for some time by that unfortu-
nate nobleman, Lord William Russell, who was so inhumanly
murdered in London lately by his French valet, Courvoisier.
During his residence there, his Lordship was much admired for
his unpretending mode of life and kind behaviour, although he
lived strictly private, and was held in high esteem in the neigh-
bourbood.
   Near the old castle, the grounds of which the present proprie-
tor keeps in great order, is the parish church built by the Arch-
bishop Spottiswood about 1615. In, the life of Spottiswood, pre-
fixed to his History of the Church, it is said, " He, the Arch-
bishops, built upon his own charges the church of Dairsie after the
decent English form, which, if the boisterous hand of a mad re-
formation had not disordered, is at this time (1678) one of the
beautifullest little pieces of church work that is now left to that
now unhappy country."\*
   The above is far from an overstretched account of this edifice,
which originally had a flat roof with lead, and most grotesque

<FOOTNOTE>Life of Spottiswood.
                                        4


