
                               KENMORE.                     465

countrie people, their loss within Perthshire and within Argyle-
shire, exceeds the soume of 1,200,000 merks."
  Not less eminent than any of his prdecessors was John, third
Earl of Breadalbane, who, when yet but very young, exhibited an
unusual degree of talent, as well as progress in education. As
stated in a manuscript at Taymouth, "he possessed the talents of
both father and grandfather in an eminent degree; and was, at the
age of 22, appointed by King George L,in 1718, Envoy extraordi-
nary and Plenipotentiary to the court of Denmark, where he re-
newed former treaties, and concluded a now one. He filled after-
wards several state offices; was Master of the Jewel Office, Lord
Chief-Justice in Eyre of all the royal forest besouth the Trent,
Lord Privy Seal of Scotland, and Vice Admiral of Scotland. He
died in 1782, aged 86."*
  Land-owners.-The whole lands of the parish belong to the
Marquis of Breadalbane, with the exception of the property of
Shian, a three merk land in Glenquaich, belonging to, the Misses
Campbell of Shian.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers go a considerable
way back, the first entry being in 1636.  From that date it would
appear, though parts of the records have been lost, that marriages,
burials, births and baptisms were registered; and considering the
large and scattered nature of the parish, the different entries seem
to have been made with laudable minuteness; much more so, in-
deed, than they are at the present day. A record has also been
all along regularly kept of the proceedings of the kirk-session,
whether in matters of discipline, or in the management, of the
funds for the poor.
  Antiquities.-The ruins of greatest interest by far are those
in the Isle of Lochtay. The isle itself forms a beautiful and pic-
turesque object directly in front of the manse, being about a quar-
ter of a mile above the outlet of the river Tay, and separated by
a narrow channel from the northern margin of the lake. It is of

<FOOTNOTE>It may be mentioned here, as a portion of the history connected with the parish, that
    Donald IV. of Scotland, who came to the throne in 632, perished in Lochtay, having
    been there, as it is said, "at fishing with his servants for pastime."-Old Chron. of
    Scotland, p.55
        It may likewise be mentioned here, more as a matter of literary curiosity, than of
statistics, that the library of Taymouth contains a copy of the celebrated dispute be-
tween John Knox and the Abbot of Crossraguell. It is worth while to record this
circumstance, because it is stated by Dr M'Crie, in his Life of the Reformer, Vol. ii.
page 73, "that the only copy known or exist at present is in the library of Alexander
Boswell, Esq. of Auchinleck." That copy is said to be imperfect; so is also the
Taymouth copy, the want of leaves 2d, 3d, 14th, and 15th, or 8 pages, making an
"hiatus valde deflendus," in a production so rare.

   PERTH.                               Gg



