
130                       ROXBURGUSHIRE.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Chief Land-owners.-The chief land-owner is His Grace the
Duke of Roxburghe, who is also patron of the parish. He posses-
ses somewhat more than one-half of the valued rent. The other
chief land-owners are, William Scott Kerr, Esq. of Chatto; the
Merchant Maiden Hospital; Sir John James Scott Douglas, Bart.
of Springwood Park; Charles Rutherford, Esq. of Fairnington.
They are here enumerated in the order of their respective valua-
tions.
   Parochial Registers.-There are three volumes of parochial re-
gisters belonging to the parish. The earliest entry is of date 1624,
and the whole have been kept up to this time with more or less
accuracy.
  Antiquities.-The ancient town of Roxburgh, which is stated
to have been the fourth town in Scotland in point of importance
and population, was situated at the eastern extremity of the parish.
In history, it is said to have been twice taken and burned, viz. in
the years 1369 and 1460; and from the circumstance that the
town was altogether constructed of wood, hardly any vestiges of it
exist. A little to the west of the site of the old town, appear the
ruins of the celebrated castle of Roxburgb, "of which there remains
now only as much shattered wall as suggests the former prodigi-
ous strength and singular magnificence of the fortress. The south
wall of the castle impended over the Tiviot,-a part of whose
waters was directed by a dam thrown obliquely across the stream
at the west end of the castle into a deep fosse, which defended the
fortress on the west and north, emptying itself into the river at the
east end thereof. Over this moat, at the gate-way from the town,
was thrown a draw-bridge, the remains of which were but lately re-
moved."-(Vide former Account.)
   At different times, various remains of antiquity have been dug
up at or near the castle, which are believed to be in the posses-
sion of His Grace the Duke of Roxburghe. With regard to the
history of the castle,-it was twice stormed, taken, and demolished,
first by Robert Bruce in 1312, next in 1460, when James II. was
killed by the bursting of a cannon. A yew tree, planted by His
Grace the present Duke of Roxburghe, marks the spot where the
king fell. Upon his death, the queen assumed the command in
the name of her son, and urged the Scottish chieftains to testify
the regard they had to their sovereign, by completing the enter-
prize in which he had fallen. Her example and exhortation had


