
                       DUNLOP.                              291

passing into claystone-porphyry and amygdaloid, with subordinate
masses of greenstone and basalt. These rocks often jut through
the surface, sometimes forming precipices of considerable height,
but though many quarries have been opened where they are thus
exposed, they have not been wrought to such an extent as to show
their general direction and inclination. Where they break through
the surface they are often much disintegrated, and are generally
a confused mass, destitute of regular stratification. The irregular
seams and fissures running through them, all lie in a direction ap-
proaching to vertical. At Craighead, near the centre of the parish,
is a bed of greenstone, composed of seams of different thicknesses,
which supplies excellent building stones. The depth and extent
of it have not been ascertained. At Templehouse, near the vil-
lage, and a few other places, greenstone of good quality is also
met with. Columnar basalt occurs at Lochridgehills. The co-
lumns, as far as they have been laid bare by the working of a
quarry at the place, are about l8 feet in height, and 20 inches
in thickness. They are generally pentagonal, and somewhat
curved.
	Next to these rocks, limestone is the most abundant. At
Laigh Gameshill it has long been quarried. This bed is in some
places about 16 feet thick, and of excellent quality. In other
places it is of much less value, being thinner, and having many
layers of indurated clay interspersed. Another bed of limestone
appears at intervals in the farms of Bourock, East and West Wa-
terland, on the banks of the Lugton. Very little use has yet been
made of it. Connected with this limestone, freestone and coal are
found. They are still almost untouched. A short time ago, a
few carts of coals were taken out, but they were found to be of
such inferior quality as not to be worth the expense of extracting
them. It is not known whether the sandstone and coal are co-
extensive with the limestone. Besides these two principal beds of
limestone, there are less extensive masses of it in various other
places. It everywhere abounds with petrified shells.
	The soil incumbent on all these rocks is generally of a clayey
retentive nature, but very productive, especially in grass, when
properly drained. In a few places, in the southern division of the
parish, it is loamy, and in the higher grounds patches of moss
occur here and there.
	 Zoology.--Of quadrupeds, the hare, wild rabbit, weasel, and
mole are common. Roe-deer have for some years past frequented


