
                            KILMANY.                         543

the pulpit that is decayed, and to do other things needful about
the church. And the session farther recommends to the minis-
ter, to write to the provost of the Old College, either to furnish the
communion elements, or allow a fund to buy them, being, it is
said, that the Old College was in use and wont so to do, and being
proprietors of the tithes of the parish, are obliged to allow a fund
for, or else provide elements for, the use of the parish." Upon
this solemn occasion, " Elizabeth Forrester, Lady Mountwhanie,
spouse to James Crawford of Mountwbanie, did provide the pulpit
with a covering, together with a good silk fringe, and other
things belonging thereto; as also she did give as much fine linen
as served for the use of the table cloaths at the Sacrament. The
session, out of gratitude to the said lady, did order the recording
of this in the minutes." It is stated in the minutes of June the
8th, " the provost of the Old College declines to allow a fund, or
afford communion elements. The session recommends to the mi-
nister to take advice what means must be used to obtain a fund
for this purpose in time coming." June 22d, the session met, in-
timation was made this day, that the fast day before the sacra-
ment was to be on Wednesday next. The sacrament was dis-
pensed on the 29th of June. The session met on the 2d of July;
the minister reported that he had taken advice what method
must be used for obtaining a fund for providing the communion
elements, and that the advice was, that there was no other way but
to raise a process before the Session Lords, now Commissioners for
Plantation of Kirks and Valuation of Teinds, and that he was resolved,
when a fair opportunity offered, to take that method, both with
to his stipend and the communion elements. The session,
considering that the minister's, stipend, being but a scrimp enough
maintenance, could not allow of paying the elements out of it, they
unanimously agreed to pay theva out of the collections, gathered at
the sacrament, until a fund shall be otherwise provided.' In July
6th 1714, the sesion met, and the minister represented to them, that
he had at last, after a long depending processes obtained a decreet of
modification and locality of his stipend ; wherein a fuud is provided
for communion elements, which he pays out of the. same, and so the
poor's box will be no longer burdened with the payment,
elements.
   In the minutes, them is nothing paricularly intereating   to
the general reader. In November 8th 1704, the sesson gave to
Daniel Guinea, as encouragement for setting up a printing-house


