
 810                       LANARKSHIRE.

habitants of the town of Lammingtoune, some of them supplied
with pumps, and all affording excellent water.  Both at the manse
and school-house, this accommodation has been supplied by the
heritors.
   Rivers and Burns.-The river Clyde sweeps along the whole
extent of these parishes on the west, keeping a direction from
south-west to north-east; and from its rise in the mountainous
range on the, east of Crawford, near Tweedshaws in the parish of
Tweedsmuir, to where it passes the manse of this parish, it has a
run of at least seventeen miles.  Like all rivers in mountainous
districts, it is liable to sudden spates and overflowings of the low
grounds on its margin. One of these spates occurred in the month
of January 1830, which was attended with a lamentable loss of
human life in this very locality;-two young men, with two ser-
vant girls, to whom they were said to have been betrothed, having
perished in a rash attempt to cross the river in a dark and stormy
night, at the ford near the old castle of Lammingtoune.  The ac-
cident created a great sensation in the neigbbourbood, and, as
many individuals had previously lost their lives in attempting to cross
the Clyde in this vicinity, the public attention was roused to the ne-
cessity of having some safe mode of communication established be-
tween the opposite sides of the river, there being none from Clyde's
Bridge on the south, to Wolfclyde on the north, a distance of about
nine miles.  Accordingly, an elegant and substantial bridge of two
arches, each 53 feet in span, of a hard liver-coloured stone from
Robertoun, and costing upwards of L.900, was in 1836 thrown
across the Clyde between that parish and Wandell, a little to the
south of the 34th mile-stone from Edinburgh, on the road leading
from the metropolis through this parish, to Abington and Crawford,
on the Dumfries road, either by Moffat or Thornhill.
   There is a deep pool in the Clyde, a short way below the old
castle, where a man of the name of Johnstone perished long ago,
and which still goes by the name, of " Johnstone's Pool."
   There are several tributary streams in the parish, all descend-
ing from the hills on the south-east, and emptying themselves
into the Clyde on the west.  Some of them, indeed, are mere
rivulets, others are of such size as to be dignified with the name
of burns.  Of these, Hackwood, Wandell, Hartside, and Lamming-
toune burns, are the largest.  All these streams cross the high road,
and it was only about eighteen years ago, that the three last men-
tioned had arches or pends thrown over them !


