
	494				ARGYLESHIRE.

	is designed "Electus Sodorensis et Prior de Ardchattan" in 1558.
	In 1573 he became bishop of the Isles.*
	     Parochial Registers.-The registers of births and marriages do
	not commence at an earlier date than 1758, and, owing to the ne-
	gligence of parents and parties concerned, they have since been
	often irregularly kept.  The same observation holds as to the poor's
	roll and poor's funds, and no records of the kirk-session were kept
	prior to 1819.  These matters are now better attended to.
	     Antiquities.-Nearly half way betwixt Connell and Shean, and
	a little to the west of the high ro`d which connects these ferries,
	there is a verdant isolated eminence of some extent, the base of
	which is partially washed by the Atlantic.  It is known by the
	name of Dun-mac-Sniachan, that is, "the fortified hill of the son
	of Sniachan,"-and is accessible from the east by what would ap-
	pear to be an artificial opening made through the rock.  It forms
	one of those vitrified forts which have engaged the attention and
	exercised the ingenuity of antiquarians, and, in regard to the
	vitrification of which, the most plausible theory seems to be, that
	it was occasioned by beacon fires lighted there to Warn the inhabi-
	tants of the approach of an enemy.  The remains of a Druidical
	circle can also be traced on the summit of this eminence.-It has
	been conjectured that Dear this hill stood the famous city of Bere-
	gon or Beregonium ; and it is held also that Dun-Mac-Sniachan
	is the identical Selma of the poet Ossian, and the site of the pa-
	lace of the Fingallian dynasty.  Without presuming to dogmatise
	on a subject on which a difference of opinion ought to involve
	nothing heretical, one may be permitted to say that this lo-
	cality may advance claims to the honour in question quite as
	powerful as those of any other in the Highlands.  "Selma," (Seal-
	la'ma,) signifies, in Gaelic. "the fine view," and certainly a
	nobler and more magnificent prospect than that from the top of
	this bill cannot easily be obtained in any country.  The noisy
	Connell, a little to the south, has, with no little verisimilitude, been
	considered as Ossian's  "falls of Lora," lora signifying in Gaelic,
	loud ;" and the adjacent widely extended moss of Achnacree.

	     <FOOTNOTE>* "He dilapidated," says Keith, in his History of the Scottish Bishops, "most
	part of the benefice in favour of his relations."  What had been appropriated for
	ages to the support of religion, was thus dishonestly converted into private property,
	common occurrence at the Reformation in Scotland; and a few individuals were
	enriched by that which sbould, on no principle of justice or of expediency, have be-
	longed to them.  These remarks do not, of course, in any degree apply to the present
	respectable proprietor.
                                              3

