
			     PENPONT.                          513

in 1782, and thoroughly repaired, in 1834, at an expense,of L. 240.
A session-house was likewise added to it, with a new entrance to
the church underneath, at a further expense of L. 100. The
church is in the form common to the period in which it was built.
It stands on three parts of a cross, one of which had at one time
been built up, but is again opened find, comfortably seated. lt
has a neat small gallery attached, which the Duke of Buccleuch
erected at his own expense. The church is seated for 408, in-
cluding the gallery, and has communion tables capsules of contain-
ing about 80 communicants. The communion cups bear the dates
1363 and 1366; and it is worthy of being mentioned, that not till
the year 1834 had the Lord's supper ever been dispensed in the
church, the service previously having been conducted in the open
air. The seats in the church are about to be legally divided.
The congregation have hitherto been well accommodated, with-
out being asked for a farthing of rent by the heritors. Perhaps
in no spot could the church have been placed more conveniently for
the parishioners generally,--though one family attached to the Es-
tablishment are fully fourteen miles away from it. The present
incumbent, Mr Smith, was inducted in 1833, after having been
several years minister of the second charge in Kilmarnock.
	There are other two places of worship in the parish besides the
Established Church,--the one belonging to the Reformed Presby-
tery, which was built in 1791, and is capable of containing about
500 sitters; the other to the Relief, erected in the year 1800, and
seated for 700. These congregations are supplied with ministers
of great respectability. Mr Carmichael, of the Reformed Pres-
bytery, has not yet been a twelvemonth ordained. Mr Dobbie,
of the Relief, being somewhat advanced in life, is about to avail
himself of the aid of an assistant and successor, a Mr John Smith,
in whose favour a call has been very harmoniously moderated. It
is no more than justice to these congregations to say, that indivi-
duals belong to them as intelligent and as respectable as are any-
where to be found in their sphere of life. And whatever asperity
may have resulted elsewhere from discussions upon Establishments,
now so rife, such discussions here have neither interrupted nor em-
bittered the intercourse of social life. Mr Carmichael is allowed
L. 100 a-year, and has a house and garden. Mr Dobbie, with si-
milar advantages, has L. 125. Both congregations are in the ha-
bit of giving from their funds to relieve the necessities of the poor
who belong to them. Since Mr Smith's induction, he has been


