
          366
                                    BANFFSHTRE.

          erected a few years ago at the same spot, at the expense of the
          Honourable Colonel Grant for the Earl of Seafield, Richard
          Wharton Duff, Esq. of Orton, and Patrick Steuart, Esq. of
          Auchlunkart, and chiefly in consequence of the exertions of
          this latter gentleman. It is oil the suspension principle, on a
          plan by Captain Brown, and cost about L.3500. Its span is 235
          feet. The towers are lofty structures, of ashlar granite.  The
          toll-house, of polished freestone, is remarkably handsome. Un-
          der the authority of the Banffihire Turnpike Act, a very moderate
          pontage is exacted, little more than sufficient to keep the bridge
          in repair ; but the gentlemen who have so liberally stepped for-
          ward with the funds for it will eventually be well repaid, by the
          increased value of the land on, both sides of the river. Since the
          erection 'of the bridge of Fochabers, six miles below, and Craigel-
          lachie, six miles above, the passage of the river here is not of such-
          general importance as.it once was; but the accornmodationaf-
          forded by this bridge to the public is still very great, and to the
          districts in the neighbourhood it is invaluable.
              Connected with the ancient structure, and on the Boharm side
          of the river, there was a religious establishment called 11 the Hos-
          pital of.  St Nicholas sit the Bridge of Spey." This seems to have
          derived its origin from a gift of 11 Muriel de Pollock, heiress of
          Rothes, in the beginning of the thirteenth century, of her estate
          of Inverorkil," (where the bridge was built), " to God, the Vir-
          gin, and St Nicholas, in pure alms, for the support of a house
          there for the reception of poor passengers."  (See Shaw in loro,
          and Appendix, No. 2.) Shaw gives also, from the Chartularv of
          Moray, the deeds by which Andrew Bishop of Moray, about the
          same time, granted to this hospital the church of Rotbes with its
          pertinents, and by which Alexander II., A. D. 1232, granted a pro-
          vision for a chaplain here. Shaw also mentions a grant to the
          hospital of the lands of Aikenway by Walterus de Moravia.
            The ruins of the buildings or this establishment remained in
          considerable extent, till cleared away- for the approach to the pre-
          sent bridge, when many human bones were disinterred ; but no
          other article of curiosity.  It is presumed, that, at the Reforma-
          tion, the lands were re;umed by the heirs of the original donors
          or taken possession of by the neighbouring proprietors.
             Modern Buildings.-Of modern buildings there is nothing worth
          notice but the bridge just mentioned, and the mansion-houses of
          Arndilly and Auchlunkart.  The former is chiefly remarkable for


