
184			        FORFARSHIRE.

linquent in the stocks in the daytime, for not more than three hours.
The fine is to be levied by poinding the delinquent's goods, and in
default of these, by imprisonment for a period not exceeding one
month. The restrictions lying upon the baron are now so heavy,
that Mr Erskine says, they amount nearly to a prohibition of the
criminal part of his jurisdiction.
	The town of Kirriemuir stands in a healthy and pleasant situa-
tion, partly on a flat, and partly on an inclined plane, about 400 feet
above the level of the sea. The form of the town may be fanci-
ed to resemble an anchor. The view from the lower part of it is
bounded by the southern brow of the Den: from the higher part
is seen nearly the whole extent of the magnificent valley of Strath-
more. But the most extensive view in the parish is from the hill
of Kirriemuir,--the summit of which is a place of considerable ex-
tent, terminated by a bold and precipitous front on the south, but
descending in every other direction with a gentle inclination. Here
the spectator has only to turn his eyes towards the east where the
hhlls of the Mearns present themselves washed by the German
ocean; from the top of which hills blazed of old "the baleful fire,"
warning the inhabitants of the district of the approach of danger.
In this direction, too, are seen the picturesque heights of Fin-
haven, which resemble vast undulations. When satisfied with
this part of the prospect, the spectator may turn his eyes to
the north, where a wilder scenery presents itself,--a sea of
hills, around whose summits "the stormy mist gathers," reach-
ing the confines of dark Lochnagar "with its steep frowning
glories." From these hills the Prosen and the Esk, and other
mountain-streams, come down with "thundering din." Towards
the west, are the lofty mountains of Perthshire with "Birnam wood,"
and "high Dunsinnan hill," rich with classical associations, and hal-
lowed by the footsteps of the bard of Avon. Towards the south, on
either hand, as far as the eye can reach, the glorious valley of
Strathmore presents itself, with its hundred towns, its churches,
castles, villas, plantations, lakes, and streams, bounded by the
Sidlaws, whose sides are either clothed with woods, or enriched
with luxuriant crops of corn; in short, there is nothing wanting
to render the scenery unrivalled, but a huge arm of the sea or a
mighty river, rolling its current along the strath.
	The population of Khrriemuir, including the suburbs, amounts
to 4014; and no town in the county has a better weekly market.
It is the seat of a Justice of Peace Court for the district, includ-


