
                      RAFFORD.                            239

than a quarter of a mile from the burgh of that name. This ar-
bitrary division can be accounted for, in this and similar instances,
only by a desire on the part of the authorities of the time, not to
divide the estates of the several proprietors, but to place them, in
such cases as admitted of it, under one and the same spiritual ju-
risdiction.
    Topographical Appearances.-The face of the country is very
much diversified; the lower part being of a character quite dis-
tinct from the upper; the one partaking of all the characteristics
of a lowland country, while the other assumes the bolddr features
of Highland scenery.   The centre presents the appearance of an
extensive undulating valley, diversified by moorland, lochs, wood,
and well cultivated fields. Whilst it possesses this variety within
itself, there are points affording the most extensive views of the
adjacent counties. From the towers of the Castles of Burgie and
Blervie, and the intended site of a new mansion-house at Altyre,
the eye embraces a range more extended than is often to be met
with ; comprehending the counties of Banff, Inverness, Ross,
Cromarty, Sutherland, and Caithness; whilst at our feet lies our
own beautiful and fertile province of Moray.
   Climate.-The climate of Moray is so well known for its equal
temperature and salubrity, that it is unnecessary to dwell upon the
subject. It may suffice to say, that it still lays claim to those vir-
tues which Bishop Leslie, himself a Northern, and consequently
qualified to draw a comparison between it and other counties
around, ascribes to it- " Regio est una, prae caeteris omnibus
apud nos, amenitatem celebrata." To this, certainly, this parish
forms no exception, of which the following proofs may be given.
The present incumbent, at one time, paid considerable attention
to the registration of deaths, and the causes and ages of decease.
This record be showed to a friend then visiting him, who has a
name now bonoured in the firrt of our universities, and distinguish-
ed for his philanthropy, and acquaintance with the "annals of the
poor." This gentleman was struck with the frequency of cases
of extreme old age recorded, and declared that he had not met
with any thing so favourable to the salubrity of the climate, except
in the bills of mortality in some of the valleys of Switzerland.\f*

<FOOTNOTE>Whether it was owing to information derived from this source, or from another
is unknown, but it so happened, that, some years ago, an application was made to
the same incumbent, by persons embarking in a Tontine speculation, to furnish them
with some of the best lives above seventy-five. This was done, with a special recom-
mendation in favour of one individual, although he had attained his seventy-eigth


