
                           GREENLAW.                           43

neighbourhood the ruins of two religious houses dependent upon
the priory of Kelso, when Popery was established in this country,
but there is not now a vestige of them remaining.
   There are the remains of an encampment about two miles above
the town, at the confluence of the Blackadder and Faungrass
rivers, and on the very verge of their precipitous banks. The
camp, which is called the Blackcastle Rings, is on the northern
side of the river; and on the south side, exactly opposite, is the
beginning of an entrenchment which runs about half a mile
along the bank, and then turns off to the south in the direction of
Hume Castle. That part of it which runs in a southerly direction
is called the Black Dikes. In removing the turf for a quarry in
the line of this trench, a number of gold and silver coins of the
reign of Edward III. were found about two years ago. A piece
of a silver chain was also found at the old camp.
   Several silver coins were found this summer in clearing away
the old buildings connected with the Castle Inn, but these coins,
as well as the others above-mentioned, were seized by the work-
people,-except a few, which were given to Sir William Purves
Hume Campbell, Bart.
   There are several barrows or cairns in the north-west part of
the parish, one of which was removed a few years ago by some
people who were employed in building dikes; below it, was found a
human skeleton, which was so placed as to lead to the belief that
the body had been cut through the middle, and the one-half placed
over or above the other. *
   Modern Buildings.-Besides the New Jail, to be afterwards no-
ticed, there is an elegant County Hall, which has just been finished
The building is of Grecian architecture, and of very chaste design
It contains a large hall 60 feet long by 40 feet wide, the ceiling is
28 feet in height. The hall is adorned with two fluted columns
with Corinthian capitals at each end. There are also a number of
other apartments in the building for the accommodation of the
sheriff and the gentlemen who attend the county meetings. There
is in front a beautiful vestibule surmounted by a dome, in which

<FOOTNOTE>About a mile north from the town, an old wall or earthen mound, with a ditch
on one side, known by the name of Herriot's Dike, runs across the parish. It could
at one time have been traced fourteen miles eastward, and tradition says it proceeded
in the same direction as far as Berwick. It is supposed to have extended westward
to a place in the parish of Legerwood called Boon; a word in the Celtic language sig-
nifying boundary or termination. It is not known by whom or at what time this wall
was built, nor for what purpose it was intended.


