
			  GUTHRIE.                           473

rish generally is draining: attention has been roused to the im-
portance of this; and efforts are used to introduce it in good
earnest. The value of the subsoil plough, also, it is hoped, will
be generally appreciated, and its use become common. It seems
to be the opinion of those most competent to judge of this matter,
that its adoption would loosen the retentive subsoil which so ge-
nerally prevails throughout the whole parish, and permit the water
to escape downwards. With the modification now explained,
husbandry is conducted skilfully and industriously; and though a
niggardly and ungrateful soil, and, to some extent, an ungenial
climate, in many cases but ill requite the labours of the husband-
man; yet bontinued industry and perseverance are, in many in-
stances, well rewarded. The leases are generally of fourteen or
nineteen years duration. The farm-houses and offices are gene-
rally convenient. There is great want, however, of good fences.

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town,-Means of Communication.-As already stated,
the parish contains neither town nor village. The nearest post-
town is Forfar, distant seven miles from the church; but the town
with which the chief communication takes place, is Arbroath,
which is distant eight miles. The Arbroath and Forfar turnpike
road, and the railway between these two towns, both pass along
within a quarter of a mile from the parish church.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated within about 100
yards of the centre of the southern boundary of the northern di-
vision of the parish. Its situation is convenient enough for this
section of the parish, though sadly otherwise for the other division.
The church and manse are very pleasantly situated, being on the
verge of a declivity, sloping down into the valley through which
the small stream, the Lunan, already mentioned, prettily winds
its course. The locality, indeed, where the church and manse
stand, is the most eligible for natural beauty and prospect of any
between Forfar and Arbroath. The church is a plain building,
but very substantial and comfortable. It was erected in 1826:
It is capable of accommodating 306, at the legal allowance of
eighteen inches to each sitter.
  The manse received a large addition about fourteen years ago,
and is in good repair.
  There are about five acres of glebe, besides three acres of
moorland, in name of grass-glebe. The stipend is one of the
"small livings," receiving an augmentation from Government.


