                           ROBERTON.                         95

though higher in price, is considerably reduced in quantity and
weight. These circumstances, and the risk of the sheep catching
a prevalent disorder, perhaps nearly overbalance the profit. The
farmers who follow this practice engage in it with misgivings and a
suspicion in their own minds as to its propriety; and certainly their
neighbours, who do not follow the custom, have a great jealousy
against it.
  Of late years, a considerable number of kyloes, bought at the
Falkirk trysts, have been wintered in the parish. It is considered
bysome, that the putting of a certain number of cattle upon the sheep
pastures is not only profitable, but also advantageous to the sheep.
The experiment seems at least a reasonable one, as one species of
stock may feed, in a great measure, upon the herbage and grasses
which another passes over. However, there are different opinions
on the subject, and the real sheep-breeders do not seem much to
relish the custom.
  Husbandry.-The general character of the husbandry pursued
is the five-shift rotation. The duration of leases is generally 7,9,
and 11 years. The farm-building are good. The enclosures are
generally hedges near the water side, and dry-stone dikes in the
higher grounds; but several of the sheep-farms have, as yet, no ring
fencds.
  Among the principal improvements, that have been recently
made, are the introduction of lime and bone dust; but the greatest
is certainly the sheep drains. These are mostly surface drains.
They have the effect of drying the meadows and marshy land,-by
which means the grass becomes much finer and thicker. They have
likewise been the means of curing several disorders among the
sheep, such as rot.
  The disorder which commits the greatest depredations in this
neighbourhood, is the louping ill. This disorder has as yet baffled
all skill: and it often commits great havoc among the sheep in
the spring season. What renders it still more formidable is, that
it does not carry off the weaker sheep, but very generally seizes the
best, The shepherd often passes, on his morning round, a fine
healthy ewe, and in the evening finds her a victim to this mischie-
vous disorder. Upon a farm of between forty and fifty score,
sometimes there will be deaths to the amount of seven or eight
score. The disorder has all the appearance of a palsy, only, that
that disorder amongst the human species is generally incident to
age, whereas among sheep the disorder in question seems to carry


