
                       KINCARDINE.                               411

and from his death, in 1251, there is a regular succession of
that surname till the death of William,	Earl of Ross, in 1371,
without male issue; after which there were numerous claimants,
and the title was possessed by individuals of different families, all
claiming some right to hold it; until finally, in 1478, the earldom
of Ross was annexed to the Crown; by whom, at different periods,
it was conferred on members of the royal family. The present
representative of this ancient title, and of the chieftainship of the
clan Ross,is George Rossof Pitcalnie; whoseancestor, Monroe Ross
of Pitcalnie, claimed the earldom in 1778, as lineal male descendant
of Hugh Ross of Rarichies, and first laird of Balnagown, A. D. 1370,
brother to William, last Earl of Ross. The estates of Amat, where
there is a dwelling-house, Corrimuillie, and Amatnatua in this pa-
rish, belong to Pitcalnie.
   The principal branch of the family of Ross settled at Balnagown.
The chief of the clan about the middle of the seventeenth century
was David Ross, the lineal descendant and heir of the Earls of
Ross. He married, in 1666, Lady Anne Stewart, youngest daugh-
ter of James, third Earl of Moray, but died, without issue, 18th
April 1711, when the chieftainship of the Rosses, in the Balna-
gown family, became extinct. Lady Anne, who was endowed no
less with the gifts of nature than with those of grace, survived till
the 16th of August 1719. She bequeathed the sum of 3000 merks
Scots, for the beboof of some "indigent persons, fearing the Lord,
in the county of Ross." The estates of Balnagown now descend-
ed to Charles, second son of George, eleventh Lord Ross, as next
heir. He was born 8th Februray 1667, and having early embraced
the military profession, rose to the highest rank in that service.
He had a principal command, and was particularly instrumental in
obtaining great honour to his country over the King of France,
in two bloody wars for the liberty of Europe, during the reign
of Queen Mary the second, and William of Orange. In the
reigns of Queen Anne and King George L, be was colonel of a
regiment of dragoons, and was in five parliaments knight of the
shire of Ross. In 1721, he was a member of the Secret Committee
for the affairs of the South Sea Company, and died at Bath, in the
66th year of his age 5th August 1732. His remains were brought
down to Scotland, and interred in a stone coffin within the Abbey of
Fearn, where there is a neat monument erected to his memory,
with an inscription in Latin. Having no family himself, the Ho-
nourable General Ross had entailed his properties upon the children


