
                         BANFF.                               9

abounds in Lord Fife's plantations, and the ring-pheasant (Pha-
sianus torquatus,) now considered by naturalists as a distinct spe-
cies, may there not unfrequently be met with.  The ring-dove
(Columba palumbus) is abundant in every plantation.  The rock-
dove (Columba livia,) although frequent in the adjoining and
rocky parish of Gamrie, is not to be found in this parish, the na-
ture of the coast not being suited to its habits.  The kestril (Falco
tinnunculus,) common.  The merlin (Falco aesalon,) rare.  The
kite (Milvus vulgaris, here called the glead,) not common.  The
hen-harrier (Circus cyaneus) not common. The sparrow-hawk
(Buteo nisus,) not uncommon. The horn-owl (Otus, vulgaris ;)
the barn-owl (Aluco flammeus ;) screech-owl (Strix stridula,)
common. The swallow (Hirundo rustica ;) the martin (Hi-
rundo urbica;) the sand martin (Hirundo riparia ;) the swift
(Cypselus opus.) In ordinary seasons, the first of the swallow
tribe have been observed to arrive in this parish about the 10th of
May.  The goatsucker (Caprimulgus Europeus) has been oc-
casionally met with. The cinereous shrike (Lanius excubitor,) rare.
The waxen chatterer (Bowbycilla garrula,) rare; a specimen shot
here preserved in the museum of the Banff Institution. The mis-
sel-thrush (Turdus viscivorus) has of late years increased in this
part oftbe country, and is in some places as numerous as the common
thrush (Turdus musicus.) The fieldfare (Turdus pilaris, here
called the Highland pyot,) on the approach of winter descends
in flocks from the more mountainous regions. The blackbird
(Turdus merula,) common.  The dipper (Cinclus aquaticus, the
water ouzel,) common on the Doveran. Also the fallowchat
Saxicola oenanthe, here called tbe chackert;) the winchat(Saxicola
rubetra;) the red-breast (Sylvia rubecula ;) the white-throat (Cur-
ruca sylvia;) the hedge-sparrow (Accentor modularis.) The gol-
den-crested wren (Regulus cristatus) appeared here a few years ago,
in a large flock, on the links, during winter.  Its nest has been found
in the top of a tall whin bush. The following also are found.
The common wren (Troglodytes vulgaris.) The white wagtail
(Motacilla alba, here called the water waytail.) The yellow wag-
tail (Motacilla flava) not common. The sea titling (Anthus pe-
trosus.) The meadow titling (Anthus pratensis.) We cross-bill
(Loxia curvirostra) has been occasionally met with. The cross-bill
bunting (Emberiza citrinel, here called the yellow yirling.) Com-
mon bunting (Emberiza miliaria.) The snow-bunting (Emberiza


