
508                    INVERNES-SHIRE.

was called a bloody battle, between Montrose and Argyle, in the
year 1645. At that time, the population of Lochaber was enthu-
siastically loyal to the unfortunate Charles. Argyle and an army
of Covenanters went to Loehaber, to humble the adherents of the
Royal cause, and in search of Montrose, who was with an army in
the vicinity. Argyle's men appear to have committed some ex-
cesses, and to have burned some houses, which roused the ire of
John M'Donald, alias Ian Loni, the poet, who set off, as is report-
ed, to make his complaint, and to lay the grievances of his coun-
try before Montrose. The Marquis was not disposed to give
beed to the poet; but Alexander M'Donald, the son of Colkitto,
who acted as second in command to Montrose, said, with an Irish
oath, " I will go, and see what is wrong in M'Donald's country."
Montrose gave him a wing of the army. They kept the ridge of
the hill from Fort Augustus, where Ian Lom overtook them, to a
farm on the braes of Locbaber, where Alexander M'Donald ex-
pected to see the devastations described by Ian Lom. But no
such devastations appearing, Ian Lom was considered as a spy, and
was in danger of having his poetical career brought to a tragical end
on a tree by the son of Colkitto, when be pleaded that they should
go to the next farm, then at a short distance, and if they did not
see his account verified, they might do with him as they pleased.
Fortunately for Ian, the houses there were reduced to ashes; on
seeing which, the son of Colkitto, with another Irish oath, said,
" Ho, ho, the smell or track of the Badacbs is here" ( Tha feu-
leadh nam bodacha so.) They then followed Ian Lorn, who con-
ducted them quietly to the foot of Bennevis at night. In the
morning, Argyle's army, never dreaming that an army was near
them, was attacked, and routed with great slaughter. Alexander
M'Donald pursued the fugitives for six miles towards the bead of
Lochleiren. And a stone was placed, which even at this day marks
the spot where Montrose's men stopped from the pursuit of the
Campbells. It is said that this stone still remains as a monument
of Highland loyalty.
  At the east end of Lochlochy, another battle was fought between
the Frasers and a branch of the M'Donalds. This skirmish took
place on a hot day in summer, and the combatants on both sides
stripped to their shirts. From this circumstance the battle was
called la blar beine, or the battle of the shirts. The Frasers on
that day were almost all destroyed.
  The last feudal battle fought in Scotland between two Highland				3
			     3


