
                       EAST KILBRIDE.                      889

The village of Kilbride was constituted a burgh of barony about
the end of Queen Anne's reign, and the inhabitants were em-
powered by the grant to hold a weekly market on Tuesday, be-
sides four fairs in the year.  When the plague raged in Glasgow
the people in Kilbride, and in the neighbouring parts of the coun-
try, would not approach nearer the city with their marketable
goods than a hill about half a mile to the north of Kilbride, on
the old road to Glasgow, to which the inhabitants of Glasgow con-
sequently resorted, as a temporary market-place, and which has
ever since retained the name of the market-hill
   The parish of East Kilbride is remarkable for having been the
residence of Mrs Jean Cameron, a lady of a distinguished family,
whose zealous attachment to the exiled house of Stuart, and
whose active exertions for its interest, in 1745, made her well
known through Britain.  Mr Ure gives a description of her cha-
racter and manners, as she appeared during the latter part of her
life, which is fitted to produce a most favourable impression.  Af-
ter the public scenes in which she took a share were at an end,
she retired to a bleak and solitary spot, then called Blacklaw,
which is a small eminence about three-quarters of a mile south-
east from the village of Kilbride, where there was a neat and com-
modious dwelling-house.  She there spent the remainder of her
days.  She attended divine service in the parish church.  She
died in 1773, and was buried amid a clump of trees on the south
side of the house in which she had lived.  The trees appear to
have been since cut down, for though there are trees not far dis-
tant, the grave is now in an open field, and, while it is itself re-
spected, the ground close round it is regularly ploughed over.  In
the year 1831, there was an old man resident in the parish, of
eighty-three years of age, from whom Dr Espie obtained the follow-
ing information regarding Mrs Jean Cameron, which he communi-
cated in a letter to a friend.  The letter was afterwards printed in the
Edinburgh Literary Journal for October 1831, p. 227.  The old
man, according to Dr Espie's account, had been a servant to the
late well-known Professor Miller of Glasgow, who resided at the time
at Whitemoss, a place within the parish, a short way to the east of
Kilbride, and who ordered this man to go to church early on the first
Sabbath after Mrs Cameron arrived, to prevent any of his tenant-
ry from occupying his seat, lest there might not be proper accom-
modation for her.  He stated to Dr Espie that sbe had the farms
of Blacklaw and Roddenhead in her possession; that she kept


