
94			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

are regular in their attendance at church, firm in their religious
principles, decent and exemplary in their moral habits. Illiterate
fanatics have sometimes attempted to unsettle the opinions, and
to efface the early religious impressions of the poorer classes; but
their efforts have uniformly ended in ridiculous failure. The cha-
rity of the better ranks to the poor, and of the poor to one ano-
ther, is as great as could be wished. The numerous calls made
upon their liberality, both for general purposes, and for the relief
of indigent neigbbours, are always answered in a manner worthy of
their Christian profession. The wealthy are social, liberal, and bos-
pitable; the poor are sober, industrious, and very civil in their man -
ners. Here, indeed, as in every conventional community where it
is the privilege of one class to ask, and the duty of others to
bestow, the usual charges are reciprocated of want of charity on
the part of the rich, and want of gratitude on the part of the poor.
It is natural that they who have little should wish to have more;
nor is it likely that persons who are in want of every thing, and
owe whatever they enjoy to the munificence of others, will ever
think that their wants are sufficiently supplied, or that the mea-
sure of charity is in any case perfect. On the other hand, I would
agree with those who pronounce that he who wants gratitude can
possess no virtue, did I not know that the tenderest and most un-
wearied offices of neighbourhood and friendship are often rendered
to their fellow poor by the individuals who are most marked for
thanklessness, to their superiors. Well entitled as every Christian
philanthropist is to the veneration of those whom be clothes or
feeds, it should never be forgotten, that the loftiest philanthropy
is that which looks for no gratitude at all; but, intent only on the
relief of wretchedness, under whatever form it may be found, con-
tinues to "disperse" its offerings over a neighbourhood, in despite
of the thankless and even maledictory spirit with which they may
be oftentimes received. Two descriptions of the character and
manners of the inhabitants have been drawn,--one by Mr Robb,
in 1793, the other, referring to a much earlier period, inserted by
him in his Statistical Account, although he does not mention the
authority on which it proceeds.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.*
	In consequence of the late rainy seasons, the barley crops and
the grass crops that follow them have suffered so severely, that seve-
ral farmers have ceased to raise barley to the same extent as in
former years. In some instances the oats of last year yielded a

<FOOTNOTE>For the greater part of the information contained in this section, I am indebted
to the kindness of Mr Robert Wallace, Low Clauchan.


