
84                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

increasing produce and fertility. Hence it seems to follow that
land properly cultivated and manured may produce abundantly the
same kind of crop in regular succession. If the food of plants is
exhausted in exact proportion to the weight of crop produced, it is
worthy of investigation whether the advantage of changing the kind
of crop does not arise from one kind giving off food for another
kind, but solely from the different modes of cultivation which diffe-
rent kinds of crop admit of at different seasons.
   Varieties of wheat have been recommended; but where the
soil and climate are good, the kind most prized, both by the skil-
ful miller and baker, is the white wheat from Kent and Essex.
Some of the best growers there import seed from America; the
produce of which has been tried here. It grows freely has a
tapering stalk, yields well, has plenty of straw, is eight days ear-
lier, and brings the highest price in the London market. The
grain of wheat in its wild state is a very paltry seed. It has been
raised to its present plump state by cultivation; and by a little at-
tention the process of improvement might be accelerated. The
author has found, from experiments, that ears and even grains of
wheat reproduced their like; hence, by a judicious selection of
either, better and more prolific kinds than any hitherto in use might
be obtained.
   The duration of leases is generally nineteen years. Farm-build-
ings have here long been constructed after the most approved plans.
The land is all enclosed either with stone dikes or thorn hedges;
the latter are regularly cleaned and neatly kept.
Thrashing of corn by steam is the greatest improvement which
has lately been introduced here. The work is thereby done so com-
pletely, that, on a large farm, the whole outlay is saved the first
year: the farmer is enabled to bring his corn to the market at any
season; and there is a great saving of horses, to which the rotatory
motion of the mill is most pernicious. Pillars, whereon to build
the corn in the barn yard, should have been more generally intro-
duced. Some individuals have them of stone, but cast-iron ones are
the best. They have a cover with a turned down edge-which ren-
ders them a complete defense against vermin. They admit a free
circulation of air to the stacks, and the saving is beyond calculation.
   If there be any thing to censure in this improved district, it is the
careless manner in which the corn is cut. Some seasons, in such
a soil and climate, the whole crop is ripe at once. The country is
then deluged with Irish reapers, who on their way south are here
hired by hundreds, and perhaps the whole crop is cut in eight


