
220			AYRSHIRE.

Courthill. It is of a conical form, and is covered with the finest
verdure. These mounds appear to have been the places for dis-
pensing justice. A stone, which tradition asserts to have support-
ed the gallows, formerly stood a little east of the moat. A few
years ago an attempt was made to level this interesting monument
of antiquity, in order to fill up some hollows in the field where it
is situated, but the hill proving to have been formed of rubbish,
the design was abandoned, not, however, till its appearance was
greatly disfigured. Various tumuli have been discovered in this
parish. In forming the road to Auchinmede a stone coffin was
discovered containing human bones. A cairn was removed on the
lands of Camphill, on the formation of the Largs road, which con-
tained human bones, probably of some warrior who fell at the bat-
tle of Largs. On the lands of Linn, where the ruins of a Romish
chapel lately stood, four urns were found containing burnt human
bones. At Auchingree two similar urns were also discovered.
About ten years ago, an urn was discovered near Blair House,
containing burnt bones, and ashes apparently of coal. A part of
the jawbone was unconsumed, which, with the remains of the urn, is
in the possession of the gardener at Blair. A sword was found
a few years since in the vicinity of Dalry. The blade fell to pieces
on being removed; the handle is of brass in two hollow pieces
soldered together, and is ornamented with the figure of a dragon.
It is now in the possession of Mr Andrew Crawford, Courthill,
who has likewise one of those ancient spinning instruments, the
"rock," which was in the possession of the family of Hugh Brown,
piper, since 1498, till within these few years, when its present
owner acquired it.
	There is in the parish church an old oak seat, which was ori-
ginally the family pew of the Boyds of Pitcon, now extinct. It
has the arms of the family, with the initials R. B., and the date
1634, carved on the back, and is in excellent preservation.
	Modern Buildings.--An elegant mansion has been built at
Swinridgemuir by Mr Smith, the stones being procured from the
quarry on his own estate.--Mr Mitchell of Maulside has erected
a commodious house on his property.--An excellent inn has been
built in the village within the last two years, with a large hall at-
tached.--A gas work was erected in 1833. The building mate-
rials are chiefly procured from Swinridgemuir and Highfield quar-
ries.


