
16                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

whose name occurs oftener than once in Calderwood. We learn
from the historian, that "Jesuits having libertie to passe thorough
the countrey in 1583, during the time of the Earle of Huntlie's
lieutenantry, great coldness of religion entered in Ross_;" and
that by an act of council passed five years after, Mr Robert Wil-
liamson was among the number empowered to urge matters to an
extremity against them. Few parishes have been so fortunate in
their clergymen as Cromarty. Since the days of Episcopacy, when
its excellent and honest pastor, a Mr Hugh Anderson, was eject-
ed from his charge, and a curate thrust into his place, there has
not been a single instance of the induction of a minister in oppo-
sition to the wishes of the people. All its clergymen, too, have
been hard-working men of the evangelical school; and it seems a
natural consequence that there are at present not half-a-dozen
dissenters in all its population, and not more than two persons op-
posed to the principle of church establishments. The minister's
stipend is 16 cbalders. The glebe, which contains about five acres,
has been valued at L. 15 per annum.
   Education, Poor, Friendly Societies.-The parish is amply fur-
nished with the means of instruction. It has, like every other, its
proper parochial school, furnished with all the legal accommoda-
tions. A society school, in which Gaelic is taught, has been sta-
tioned in the upper part of it for the last quarter of a century. Two
other schools have been opened in the town by masters who de-
pend solely on the fees; and a free school, taught on the system
of Sheriff Wood, together with a female school, have been es-
tablished in it for the last six years, by a Society of the place.
There are one or two other schools besides; and a Sabbath
school, which seems to have done more for the manners and
morals of females in the lower ranks than any of the others,
is taught by the ladies of the place. Our farmers and mechanics
(in the main an intelligent race, and strikingly marked by those
traits of character which are said to be peculiar to the lowland
Scotch) seem fully alive to the benefits of education,-but these
cannot be appreciated unless they be known; and the poor fisher-
men of the place, whose perilous and uncertain profession has a
tendency to keep them' ignorant, and who have been both dis-
heartened and crippled in their means by the late failure ' of the
herring fishery, are much more careless in availing themselves of
its advantages.
The poor of Cromarty, partly frorn the superior amount of


