
114                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

rived before he breathed his last. His remains were subsequently
brought to Scotland by his nephew Lord Milton. The ashes of
the patriot now repose in the family vault below the aisle of Sal-
ton Church.
   Andrew Fletcher, the nephew of the patriot, better known as
Lord Milton, was also a native of Salton, being born there in 1692.
He adopted the profession of the Bar, and rose rapidly through
the inferior gradations of office to the elevated situation of Lord
Justice-Clerk. This office be held during the troublous period of
1745, and is admitted, on all hands, to have discharged its delicate
and trying duties with singular lenity and forbearance. * He died
in 1766. and his remains are likewise deposited in the family vault.
   Chief Land-owners.-These are the following, Andrew Flet-
cher, Esq. of Salton, who possesses nearly four-fifths of the land in
the parish; Lord Sinclair, proprietor of the estate of Herdmanston,
and the farms of Greenlaw and Wester Blance; the Earl of
Haddington, proprietor of the farm of Samuelston Mains, a small
part of the Samuelston estate, which lies chiefly in the adjoining pa-
rish of Gladsmuir; and the Earl of Dalhousie, proprietor of the
lands of Easter Blance (anciently Blanes,) which form part of the
adjoining estate of Coalston.
   Parochial Registers.-The records of kirk-session consist of
several volumes, commencing with the 27th April 1635, and con-
tinding to the present day, with the exception of a hiatus ex-
tending from 1642 to June 1663, and another from 1748 to No-
vember 1759. During the latter period, the deficiency is chiefly
in the minutes of kirk-session proceedings; the register of baptisms,
marriages, and burials being, with a few exceptions, regularly kept.
In the earlier portion of the records, very minute details of paro-
chial transactions are inserted. The texts of the ministers' ser-
mons are noted down each Sabbath. If he were absent, the place
where he was officiating is mentioned, as also the name of the

<FOOTNOTE> We quote from the last Statistical Account the following remarks on his cha-
racter, which we believe to be just: "The conduct of almost the whole public affairs
of Scotland fell upon him, and these he managed with such an uncommon degree of
discretion, temper, and moderation, that the impetuosity of wanton punishment was
restrained, and lenient measures adopted in favour of those, whom indiscretion or
norance had betrayed into hostility. He overlooked many of the information which
were brought to his office; and it is stated here from the best authority, that, after
his death, many sealed letters, containing such information, were found unopened
among his other papers. With the same patriotic views, he engaged zealously in
the abolition of heritable jurisdictions, which had long been inimical to order and to
justice. With unremitting ardour lie pursued every scheme that could promote the
trade, manufactures, agriculture, and reforming of his country."
                                      4



