
                   COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                                167

     rocks, are often sustained.  In the smaller grazing islands the ver-
     dure is luxuriant, consisting chiefly of festucas, plantagos, and
     statice, top-dressed by sea spray and exuviae of sea birds, and in
     these, even the improved Leicester breed of sheep thrives so well,
     as to be the most profitable of any.
        It is likely that our cattle, horses, and sheep were derived from
     Norway; and it might not be fanciful to trace them even to the
     Caucasian ranae, the ori-inal seat of Odin and his people, whence
     they emigrated into Scandinavia with their families and flocks;
     at least, there is a marked difference between our breeds of these
     animals and other well-defined European races.  It might be, in
     many cases, of advantage, not only to preserve in purity, but also
     to trace the origin of, distinct breeds of animals, to facilitate im-
     provement without crossing; but it is often as difficult to do this,
     as to determine the native country, in the wild state of certain do-
     mestic species.  With regard to some of these, domestication may
     have been originally the rule, and the wild state the exception.
     No breeds of these three species of animals can, as a general rule,
     be better adapted to the Shetland Islands than those that are na-
     tive to them; and, as they are always in great demand, we should
     do well zealously to cultivate them.  All that is necessary is
     such a sufficiency of food and care as will not encroach too much
     on their natural habits and hardihood, and a persevering se-
     lection of the best animals for breeders; yet, if premiums bad
     been held out for producing change and degeneracy, it is difficult
     to imagine a course of management better calculated to produce
     them, than that which has mostly been pursued.  A pernicious prac-
     tice has too much prevailed, of crossing with larger and incongru-
     ous breeds from Scotland; and the progeny, as might have been
     expected, displays all the bad points, with few of the good, of the
     parents.  A natural but rough antidote to these evils is, in some
     measure, to be found in bad   Iseasons, which fall with fatal severity
     on the degenerate.  One very evident and easy mode of improve-
     ment would be, for proprietors to keep males of a good race and ma-
     ture age, in different districts for general use, and insist on all infe-
     rior ones being removed; and it could be easily so arranged that no
     party could suffer loss.  The tenants suppose that every one's business
     is no one's ; and it bence, not unfrequently happens that calves and
     lambs, especially are wanting, because a. sufficient number of bulls
     and rams are not reared, or those that are reared, are too young, or
     of a bad stock. The annual loss to the country from this source alone.


