
                                    CLUNIE.                   1027

      a convenient and comfortbale dwelling.  The ogices were re-
      paired, at the game time by the beritors of tbe parish, who in every
      way have been forward to promote the comfort of the present in-
      cumbent.
         A part of the stipend is payable at the term of Martinmas in
      money.  The greater proportion, however, is a grain stipend.  The
      amount exceeds the minimum.
         Including the area of manse, offices, and garden, the glebe
      contains about six acres of ground inclosed.  The Duke of Athole
      and the Earl of Airly are vice-patrons.
         Education.-There is a oood'dwelling-house and school-ronm
      for the parochial teacher, both of which were repaired in 1840.
      The schoolroom is large and commodious, having attached to it
      a considerable extent of playground for the use of -the scholars.
      At present there are about 40 young people- taught the ordinary
      branches of reading, writing, and arithmetic.  Two only at pre-
      sent are learning Latin.  The teacher receives the maximum salary.
         There is, besides, a chance school in the parish, taught by two
      females.  The giris attending this school learn knitting and needle-
      work.  The number of scholars at present is 51.
         A Sabbat-school is taught by the minister.  The number of
      names upon his list at present is from 80 to 90.
         Library.-A library has been established for about two years,
      in the parish. The wish having been expressed  by the minister
      from the pulpit, that a library might be established for the benefit
      of the parish, and a collection having been intimated for that
      object the people came willingly forward and contributed to the
      large amount of L.20 aid upwards.  Several handsome donations
      of books have since been given.
         Poor.-The parish supports its own poor.  The number of
      Poor and in6rm at present upon the list is 140.  There are others,
      however, receiving occasional assistance.  The poor receive from
      3s. to 6& each per month, besides aid in fuel, clothing, and house-
      rent, as circumstances require.   The money is distributed by
      the kirk-session.  Church-door collections, which average each
      sabbath about 8s ; the use of the mortcloth, the purchase
      of burial-ground, occasional legacies and donations, and tho
      interest of a principal of L.80 in the bank, - are the sources
      from which the session funds are derived.  By the late minister,
      the Rev.  Wiiliam M' Richie, a sum of about L.50 was left in the
      hunds of the kirk-session, the interest of which  according to the


