
872                       PERTHSHIRE.

causes of pauperism is, the increased population of many parishes
where not one-half of the people are known by either the minister
or elders. Applicants are put on the roll of whose name and cir-
cumstances, the session knows nothing.  " Wherever the carcass
is, there will the eagles be gathered together." The success of
one applicant encourages others, and in a few years the poor roll
of a parish may be crowded with the names of those who may be
among the least necessitous of the poor. In any parish where the
population exceeds 3000, this may happen, and the alone practi-
cal sufficient remedy for this evil is, the reduction of our large pa-
rishes to such an extent as shall enable the minister and elders to
be acquainted with every family and individual within their bounds.
The heritors of Scotland would consult their best interests by aid-
ing the Church in any device for bringing tbe people under a
strict efficient parochial superintendence, and thereby mitigating
the manifold evils which flow from the ignorance, poverty, and vice
of a neglected and discontented population. In this parish, however,
every individual is known by name to the minister and elders.
Application for relief is made by the elder of the district in which
the applicant resides, and the case is disposed of according to its
merits. Occasional aid is given to those who may fall into dis-
tress from sickness and other causes. In some cases, where the
habits of the poor are bad, their allowance in money is converted
into some of the necessaries of life, and given to them as such.
They receive payment every Monday morning, and are generally
contented and grateful. The elders have a sympathy for the poor,
and this produces mutual confidence, and respect. The average
sum allotted to each per week is 1s. 6d. Their support and other
expenses connected with the church and parish are defrayed out
of the collections, aided by donations from the beritors. These
last year amounted to about L.200.

   December 1842.


