
862                    ADERDEENSHIRE.

of a distant parish, was for sixty-four years minister of the Epis-
copal congregation here.  An ecclesiastical history and some let-
ters or dissertations by him, on theological subjects, have been
published ; but he is perhaps better known as a correspondent of
the poet Burns, and as the writer of several popular songs, viz.
Tullochgortim, John o' Badenyon, Ewie wi' the crooked horn, &c.
A handsome monument to his memory has been erected in this
churchyard, in which be lies interred.  His residence at Linshart
has been, and still is, occupied by his successor. *
   Land-owners.-Only two heritors are resident, viz. John Hut-
chison, Esq. of Cairngall, and James Bruce, Esq. of Innerquhom-
ry and LODaside,-both of whom are also extensive ship-owners.
The other proprietors are George Ferguson, Esq. of Pitfour, who
has all that part of the parish lying north of the main branch of
the Ugie;, James Russel, Esq. of Aden, who has Ludquharn;
Thomas Arbuthnot, Esq. Provost of Peterhead, Nether Kin-
mundy ; James Buchan, Esq. of Auchmacoy, Yokieshill ; the
Heirs of the late Mrs Hay Mudie, Faichfield; and Charles Wil-
kinson Gordon, Esq. a minor, as successors + to the late General
Gordon of Buthlaw, who distinguished himself in the Greek war of
independence, and wrote its history.
   Parochial Registers.-The records of discipline and of the ad-
ministration of the poor's fund commence at the erection of the
parish in A. D. 1620, are very legible, and continued till the pre-
sent day, with the exception of four portions, viz. the four years
preceding 1637, thirteen and a half years preceding 1663, nine
years preceding 1722, and ten years preceding 1733.  The re-
gister of baptisms extends (with a hiatus or two) from 1621, and
those of marriages and interments (with like defects) from 1692
to the present time.
   Antiquities.-Occasionally a tumulus is opened, and found to
contain an urn of baked clay, with ashes, and perhaps fragments
of bones.  Little, however, can be added on this head to what has
been stated in the last Statistical Account.

                        III.-POPULATION.
   In Dr Webster's report made in 1755, the number of inhabit-

<FOOTNOTE>No offence is meant by introducing here the name of an individual who had a
county, (if not 4 national) reputation, and whose printed memorabilla have gone
through several editions.  This was Jamie Fleeman (or Fleeming), " the Laird of
Udny's fool," who flourished here about the middle of last century.  His name ap-
pears frequently in the session's list of paupers ; and his sayings and doings have been
a theme of wonderment to a generation or two.
     His right of succession to Buthlaw is likely to be contested by Dr Young of
Fawside, the heir-at-law.


