
                         KING-EDWARD.                              279

hand; and is well acquainted with the principles of the Christian
religion.
   Habits of the People.-The inhabitants of this parish may be
characterized as decent and orderly in their conduct; and regular
in their attendance at church, where they appear dressed in a very
respectable and becoming manner.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.

<TABLE>
       Land in a state of cultivation, Scots acres,	.       7351
       Waste or pasture land,	.	.	.	.             2860
       Improveable with profit,	.	.	.	.        443
       Inwood,		.	.	.	.	.             1364
       In moss,	.	.	.	.	.	.             1982
                                                             -----
                      Total number of acres,	.	.      14000

   Average rent of land per acre, about 15s.; rental of the pa-
rish about L.5770; valued rent, L.4098, 6s. 8d. Scots.  Some
of the land lets at about L.2, 10s. an acre.
   Plantations.-The Scotch firs, which form the principal part of
the plantations here, have all been planted.  We have, besides, the
ash, the beech, the larch, the spruce fir, the oak, the plane, and
the chestnut.
   Rate of Wages.-Ploughmen from L.5 to L.7 in the half-year;
maid-servants from L.1, 10s. to L.2, 10s.-all including lodging
and maintenance.  A mason has 16s. a-week in summer without
board; a wright from 8s. to 9s. a-week with board; a tailor, 1s. a-
day with board.
   The average rate of keeping a cow may be about L.3 in sum-
mer, and L.2 in winter; and a sheep may be kept all the year for
about 7s.
   Live-Stock.-The Aberdeenshire or Buchan breed of cattle ge-
nerally prevails here, though of late years the Teeswater or short-
horned cattle have been introduced into the parish.  Many, how-
ever, entertain a great prejudice against the latter.  They require
to be kept in a very superior manner, and the quality of the food
is reckoned inferior to that of the Aberdeenshire breed.  "Mr
Grant Duff of Eden, however, who began to introduce the im-
proved short-horned cattle from Yorkshire about five years ago,
and has since continued at intervals to import animals of the
highest pedigree, inclines to the same opinion as Paptain Barclay
of Ury, in Kicardinesbire, who asserts, as the result of his longer
experience, that these cattle are more easily maintained than the
Aberdeenshire breed.  Mr Grant Duff has no hesitation in saying
that, as far as he has tried them, they are sooner brought to ma-


