
574                           AYRSHIRE.

the stones, leading them to the kiln-head, and filling the kiln, will
cost about 3s. 6d. per chalder, and the lordship or rent to the
proprietor of the lime rock is about 1s. per chalder, so that the
profit, to the tacksmen is very small. Eight boll of lime -shells are
sold at the kiln as a chalder of lime, and will form two good cart.
loads. The 8 bolls of shells, if well burned, will produce 20 bolls
of slacked lime, so that the 8 bolls of shells are better than 16
bolls of slacked lime. The whole of this important field of lime
rock is of the best quality, and is found on analysis to contain
from 90 to 95 per cent. of pure carbonate of lime. It consists
chiefly of organic remains, the upper portions being almost en-
tirely composed of encrinites, with a mixture of bivalve shells.
The whole is sufficiently hard to receive a high polish as marble,
and has been wrought into chimney-pieces, tables, &c. to a conside-
rable extent. The field of limestone crops out on the north, for about
two miles, along the south bank of the Powgree-burn, which se-
parates the baronies of Broadstone and Hazlehead from the ba-
rony of Beith, and it appears near Giffen Castle, and in various
other laces for some miles to the southward, and may afford for
ages to come a plentiful supply both for agricultural and architec-
tural purposes to the whole country, extending from Glasgow to
the west coast.
	Below this limestone is a body of white clay, into which bores
have been inserted in several places, one of them to the depth of
27 fathoms, without discovering any change of material.
        Clay ironstone, a mineral of great importance, especially
when associated with coal and limestone, has been found in va-
rious parts of the parish, from the north to the south extrernity,
particularly along the banks of the waters of Dusk and Powgree,
and appears to exist in great abundance.
	On the lands of Duskrigg and Laverock Hall, the property of
Jonh S. Patrick Esq. and, on the lands of Roughwood, and other
contiguous lands belonging to William Patrick, Esq. and on the
lands of Craighouse, belonging to Robert Montgomerie, Esq., va-
rious beds of ironstone, favourably situated for being wrought
have been discovered; one on the bank of the Dusk is 18, inches
in twickness, and another 4 inches, the two beds being almost is
contact. On, the Powgree burn, a bed of 8 inches, and another
of 6 inches, are favourably situated for being wrought. Many
another, and various strata containing nodules  of iron-ore, exist in
other localities, some of which yield, upon analysis, 30 per cent of


