
388			LANARKSHIRE.

all the oyster-shells he could get in Glasgow, which he spread in
the gin-tracks of his coal-works, where they were broken in pieces
by the horses feet, and reduced to excellent mantire.* The seed-
time in the parish is usually about the end of March, and the har-
vest about the middle of September. The farms are let from
L. 2, 10s. to L. 5 per acre, according to quality; good land rents
at a grain rent of 3 1/2 bolls of wheat per acre.
	Price of Labour in Rutherglen.--In 1660, a ploughman received
L. 1O Scots, with a pair of shoes and stockings for a half year's ser-
vice; a female servant ten merks Scots, a pair of shoes, an ell
of linen, and an ell of plaiding; masons and wrights a merk Scots
without meat, or half a merk with meat and drink for a day's work.
A common labourer half a merk without meat, and forty pennies
with meat and drink. In 1836 a good ploughman gets from L. 9
to L. 10 Sterling, with bed, board, and washing for six months ser-
vice. Dairy-maids having a charge, L. 5, and ordinary female
farm-servants, L. 3, 1Os. to L. 4, 1Os. with bed, board, and wash-
ing, for six months service. Masons and wrights average 3s. per
day; labourers, 1s. 6d. to 1s. 10d. In 1660, workmen who re-
fused to work for the prices fixed by the magistrates were impri-
soned; and no servant was allowed to take up house and work
for themselves without a warrant from the magistrates. In 1836,
workmen of all descriptions combine to raise their wages, and fre-
quently through the medium of political unions clog the wheels of
industry, to the great injury of their families.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Royal Burghs.--Although in the lapse of ages, the privileges
originally granted to royal burghs have now become questionable, we
should not forget that we are much indebted to them for the reli-
gious and civil liberty we now enjoy. They were at first erected
by our monarchs with a view to rescue mankind from the op-
pressive power of the barons. For this purpose certain portions of
the King's lands were bestowed upon them. The circumstance of
these lands being commonly adjoining to royal garrisons, is the rea-
son why the greatest number of ancient burghs are situated in the

<FOOTNOTE>It appears from the following note, taken from the Rev. John Bower's account
of the parish of old Monkland, in the former Statistical Account of Scotland, vol.
vii. p. 389, that the steam engine was not then used in taking up coals from the pits.
Mr Bower says "In the spring of 1792, Mr Hamilton erected a machine for draw-
ing up the coal at Barrachnie and Sandy-hills coal work; entirely by steam. It is on
an improved plan and the first of the kind in Scotland. It is found to be the cheap-
est and most expenditious way of doing that business, for could colliers be placed in
the pit to keep her constantly employed, she would turn out about 200 tons per day.
The present output is 35,000 tons per year."
                                         4

