
730			AYRSHIRE.

was at the recommendation of his relation and friend, Mr Dale,
referred to above. John Blackwood died in 1830, the anniversary
of the ninetieth year of his age.
	The next individual entitled to particular remark, is Dr Ro-
bert Watt, compiler of the "Bibliotheca Britannica," a work, in
the opinion of Dr Dibdin, "the most extraordinary of the kind
in the literature of Europe." His life is given in Chambers's
Scottish Biographical Dictionary, and what follows may be looked
on only as a supplement to it. He was born on 1st May 1774.
The name of the farm in the parish record is Bonnyton, not Muir-
head, now Girgenti, so named by its present proprietor, John
Cheape, representative of the Cheapes of Sauchie, Stirlingshire.
The account of him inserted in the "Life" above alluded to, closes
When his studies in the Latin and Greek languages commenced
with the writer of this account in October or November 1792;
and he was then about eighteen years old. It was only one hour's
private attendance in the morning that he could spare, as he had
his occupation of carpenter to attend to, through the rest of the
day. Notwithstanding, such progress did he make in both lan-
guages, that he entered the Latin and Greek classes of Glasgow
University in 1793, and obtained a prize in the Greek class from
Professor Young. In 1794, he attended the Greek and Logic
classes also at Glasgow; and in 1795-96, the Moral and Natural
philosophy classes at Edinburgh. During the summer 1796, he
taught a private school in Kilmaurs parish, when he became an ad-
mirer of the late Rev. Mr John Russell of Kilmarnock, the "Rum-
ble John" of Burns. He then resolved to study divinity, and, in
order to have two strings to his bow, also anatomy at Edinburgh,
which he did in 1796-97. An essay on Regeneration was pre-
scribed, for which L. 10 were to be given, and which he obtained.
Professor Hunter, on delivery of the prize, was pleased to re-
mark, "that it was not only the best essay, but the first time, under
him, that a student of the first year's standing, attempted and suc-
ceeded so well and so deservedly." In 1797-98, he spent one year
in Symington as parochial schoolmaster, and merely enrolled his
name as a student of divinity in Edinburgh, when an essay on Prayer
was announced by Professor Hunter, for which a prize of L. 8 was
to be given, and which be also obtained. During his residence
at Symington, the Rev. Mr Logan, minister of the parish, induced
him, for reasons unnecessary to state here, to give up the study of
divinity, and finish his medical studies, which he did in Glasgow in


