
                                BELLIE.                              117

sisting of a mixture of dark-coloured argillaceous and siliceous earths.
It is imbedded in loose and decompounded strata of the same con-
stituent elements, which form a very superior binding for roads
and garden-walks, for which purposes it is in great request.
Huge masses of this red sandstone are occasionally found, and
broken down for various architectural uses. Some portions of the
"rock" are very hard when first dug from the quarry, but it is lia-
ble to be corroded, and to moulder away when long exposed to the
weather, and on that account, when employed in the outer courses
of buildings, it is usually overcast with a thick coating of lime.
The breccia, or pudding-stone, is frequently found imbedded in
this rock; and on the beach of the river, some beautiful pebbles and
fragments of asbestos have been occasionally picked up, which
have probably been washed from the mountains by heavy floods.
Some micaceous schistus and stalactitical accretions also reward
the search of the collector.
   Soil.-The soil of the lower district of the parish is chiefly light and
sandy, and, although interspersed with some patches of barren gra-
vel, is productive on the whole in moist seasons. Where the stillness
of the waters, by which it was evidently at one period overflown,
allowed the alluvial deposit to become deep and extensive, it con-
sists of a rich and fertile loam. The under stratum is wholly of
gravel and stones, formerly the bed of the river or the sea. The
coast along its whole extent, and to the breadth of about a-quar-
ter of a mile, is entirely sterile. The lands near the eastern
boundary are also sandy and light. The south-eastern and high-
est part of the parish is chiefly barren uncultivated moor, swelling
into hills of various forms, of which the eastern range consists,
in general, of the "schistus caruleus," or blue slate, whilst that on
the south and west is chiefly composed of a red and very tenacious
clay, intermixed with gravel and small stones. Among these ele-
vated grounds, there are a few farms of clayey loam, with a mix-
ture of moss, which would be highly productive, were it not that
the climate here is unfavourable, and the harvest usually late.
   Zoology.-Some rare and beautiful birds of passage have been
occasionally recognized in our fields and ponds; and a list of the
most noted of these migratory strangers that were intercepted in
their flight, may not be unacceptable to the scientific reader.
They were shot by the Duke of Gordon or some of his Grace's
visitors, in the neighbourhood of Gordon Castle.


