
	                ARDCHATTAN.

	Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce annually
raised cannot be specified with minute accuracy. It is believed
the gross rental may, in round numbers, be stated to be L.6600.
Now, if two rents be added to this, we have L. 19,800, which
may, perhaps, represent the yearly value of the grahn, potatoes,
hay, wool, pasturage of sheep and cows, fisheries, and thinnings
of wood throughout the parish.
	Live-Stock.-There are 32,000 sheep in the district, 720 cows
with their followers, and 250 horses of all ages.
	The number of imperial acres under coppice, which consists of
oak, ash, birch, mountain ash, &c. may be estimated at 2600
acres. At each bagg or felling, or, at the end of every twenty or
twenty-one years, these, valuing the oak bark, after deducting
charges for manufacturing and freight, at L.4 per ton, the char-
coal at 10s. per dozen bags, and adding to this the value of the
unmeasurable timber, may produce the sum of L.9000.
	There is no manufacturing establishment within the bounds,
nor does any part of the population belong to the manufacturing
classes.
	It may be mentioned, before concluding this section, that our
proprietors and principal farmers are members of the Lorn Agricul-
tural Association,-an institution which, as the name imports, has
for its objects the encouragement of agriculture, and the improve-
ment of stock of all description. Premiums are adjudged by this
association for agricultural improvements, and for the best horses,
cows, and sheep; and it may confidently be stated that salutary ef-
fects have resulted, and are likely still to result, from the spirited
operations of this institution.

		   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	There is in the parish no market-town, the nearest being Oban,
which is eight miles distant from the parish church, and separated
from the district of Benderloch bv Loch Etive, which is crossed
at the ferry of Connell. The post-office is at Lorn Furnace, and
is designated Bonaw. It is also beyond the bounds of the parish,
and is cut off from it besides by- Loch Etive. The course of the
Fort William post, however, is through a section of the parish,
and in. this way a considerable portion of the population is tolera-
bly well accommodated.
	There are no turnpike roads in the district, nor indeed hitherto
in any part of Argyleshire. It is due to all concerned to say, that
the county roads and the state of the bridges are well attended to.


