
           PARISH OF GREENLAW.

   PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

         THE REV. ABRAHAM HOME, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name, Boundaries.-GREENLAW is said to have stood originally
where the farm onstead of Old Greenlaw is now situated, about a
mile from the present town. This is the more likely, as the pre-
sent town stands in a vale upon the banks of the Blackadder,
whereas Old Greenlaw stands upon a round hill, or detached emi-
inence, of which kind there are several in the parish, and which, from
their conical figure, are well known in Scotland by the name of
Laws. It is from one of these, which, in the original uncultivated
state of the country, was greener than the others, that the town
and parish have evidently derived their name. The parish is be-
tween 8 and 9 miles in length from north-west to south-east, and
on an average about 3 miles in breadth; is of the form of an ir-
regular parallelogram, with the corners rounded off; and is bound-
ed on the east by the parishes of Polwarth and Fogo; on the
south by Eccles and Hume; on the west by Gordon; and on the
north by Westruther, Longformacus, and a part of Cranshaws.
   Meteorology.-Climate.-At Greenlaw, which is well sheltered
by the surrounding eminences, the air is mild. It is more so in
the south than in the north division of the parish, where the winds
during the spring and autumn months are keen and penetrating.
The town and parish are particularly healthy, and no epidemical
disease has appeared in either for a great number of years.
   Hydrography.-There are a number of excellent springs in the
parish, one of which, situated about 200 yards from the town, af-
fords an abundant supply of excellent water. * There are also
some mineral springs; but they have never been correctly ana-
lyzed nor have they been resorted to for medicinal purposes. There

<FOOTNOTE>The water was brought into the town, and two handsome receivers of cut stone
(whence the water is drawn) were erected by Sir W.P. Hume Campbell, Bart. who
has been on this as well as many other occasions a judicious and liberal benefactor to
the town of Greenlaw.


