
                                  LAGGAN.                             425

        wait Cope's arrival at Slochdmuichd, a narrow pass within twenty-
	three miles of Inverness. Had this sagacious advice been followed,
	Sir John and his men would probably have fared even worse than
	they afterwards did at Prestonpans. Charles and his followers
	marched, however, through the parish without obstruction. Cluny
        Macpherson was then Captain in the King's army. His company
	was then stationed at Ruthven Castle, about ten miles down the
	Spey; and the laird Happened to be at his own Castle at the time.
	This being mad& known to the Prince, it was proposed that a
	detachment should be sent to seize the Rebdl Cluny, as the Prince
	was pleased to call him. Thd order was given; and Lochiel was
	commissioned to see it executed. That chieftain, no doubt, thought
	it a hazardous enterprise to attempt making prisoner of a chief-
	tain in his own castle, in the midst of his own clan, and preferred
	to send a detachment consisting of one man, who surprised Cluny,
	and brought him prisoner to the Prince. The Prince was of so
	forgiving a disposition, that he was graciously pleased to pardon all
	his past treasons, on condition of his leaving the service of the
	Usurper, and joining his own standard. The chief, it is said,
	acquiesced. Afterwards, however, Cluny accompanied Charles
	to Edinburgh, was present with his regiment at the battle of
	Prestonpans, followed him to England,-had the rear-guard in
	the skirmish at Clifton or Penrith: and with about 600 Mac-
	phersons, put two regiments of the Duke of Cumberland's drs-
	goons to flight. Had be and his gallant followers been present
	at Culloden, it is more than probable that the fate of the day
	would be different from what it was. After Culloden, he was
	the object of the Duke of Cumberland's special vengeance. But,
	in spite of all that he and his spies. could do, the chief continu-
	ed to set their vigilance at defiance, and to conceal himself for
	nine years in Laggan. He bad, however, many narrow escapes,
	in whibh he evinced much adroitness and presence of mind. On
	one occasion, when residing at a gentleman's house in this parish, a
	party of soldiers was seen approaching the house. Escape was
	impossible; but, having quickly equipped himself in the habiliments
	of one of the Gillies in the house, with hands and face half-black-
	ened for the occasion, and with bead and legs quite bare, he went
	Out to meet his pursuers. The officer gave him his horse to keep,
	while be and his party conducted the search for the obnoxious
	chief within the house, and rewarded him with half a crown for
	his pains, after the search was over. Cluny at last escaped to

           INVERNIMSS.                       E e


