
			GLASGOW.                            231

individuals, or even companies trading extensively on their own
capital were to be found.
	"The first adventure which went from Glasgow to Virginia, after
the trade had been opened to the Scotch by the union, was sent
out under the sole charge of the captain of the vessel, acting also
as supercargo. This person, although a shrewd man, knew nothing
of accounts; and when he was asked by his employers, on his re-
turn for a statement of how the adventure had turned out, told
them he could give them none, but there were its proceeds, and
threw down upon the table a large 'hoggar' (stocking) stuffed
to the top with coin. The adventure had been a profitable one;
and the company conceived that if an uneducated, untrained per-
son had been so successful, their gains would have been still great-
er had a person versed in accounts been sent out with it. Under
this impression, they immediately dispatched a second adventure,
with a supercargo, highly recommended for a knowledge of accounts,
who produced to them on his return a beautifully made out state-
ment of his transactions, but no 'hoggar.'
   "The Virginia trade continued for a considerable time to be car-
ried on by companies formed as has been described. One of the
partners acted as manager: the others did not interfere. The
transactions consisted in purchasing goods for the shipments made
twice a-year, and making sales of the tobacco which they re-
ceived in return. The goods were bought upon twelvemonths
credit, and when a shipment came to be paid off, the manager sent
notice to the different furnishers, to meet him on such a day, at
such a wine-shop, with their accounts discharged. They then re-
ceived the payment of their accounts, and along with it a glass
of wine each, for which they paid. This curious mode of paying
off these shipments was contrived with a view to furnish aid to
some well born young woman whose parents had fallen into bad
circumstances, and whom it was customary to place in one of those
shops, in the sme way that, at an after period, such a person
would have been put into a milliner's shop. These wine-shops
were opposite to the Tontine Exchange, and no business was tran-
sacted but in one of them." *

<FOOTNOTE>We are indebted to the Scrap-Book of Mr Dugald Bannatyne for the above part of
this abstract included in inverted commas. There are few individuals in any town who
have been so very generally useful as Mr Bannatyne. For more than half a century he
has devoted a great proportion of his valuable time and talents in promoting the mer-
cantile and manufacturing interests of this city, and his long and friendly intimacy with
his near relative DUGALD STEWART ART gave him a taste for literature which has greatly be-
nefited his country. When the Chamber of Commerce and Manufactures in this city


