
     Statistical Account

The coal here is wrought by a water engine upon a new
construction, the invention of Mr. Keir of Millholm.  It
is moved by means of al large bucket, of a square form,
suspended from the end of a lever, having a valve at bot-
tom in the centre, which, by machinery, is made to shut
and open in the in ant of time the bucket should fill
and empty itself.  The other end of the lever is fixed to
the pump, spear, or rod; and by the continued action of
the bucket descending and ascending, filling and empty-
ing in the water it contains, which is of such weight as to
make the beam preponderate, the pumping is carried on,
and the coal pit cleared of the water collected below.  As
the principle upon which the engine is constructed, is
known only to the ingenious inventor, who it is report-
ed, means to take out a patent, a more particular des-
cription shall not be attempted.  The annual produce of 
the coal mines cannot, at present, be ascertained; but
the writer is authorized to state, that a supply can be af-
forded equal to any possible demand.

   Lime Stone and Free Stone.-Lime stone is found in
great abundance in many parts of the parish, particular-
ly on the E. side of Esk; but that which is wrought at 
Harelawhill, is in greatest request, as yielding the purest
lime.  It is also remarkable for its whiteness, as well as

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

ner, was only partial; and many, in distant parts of the country, who
had no other resource, were often reduced to the greatest distress.  In 
these circumstances, the Duke, although the tacksman might have been
compelled to in plement the terms of his lease, was pleased to enter into
an agreement by which his Grace was to be at liberty to set
up a colliery in any situation that did not directly intersere with Mr.
Lomox's levels; and very considerable sums of money hev been expend-
ed by his Grace, in bringing those works to bear, which at length afford
to the public the happy prospect of a prompt and supply of this 
necesimry article of life.

</UNREADABLE>


