
180			    FORFARSHIRE.

that the people of Angus, as well as that of Aberdeen and the
Mearns, are in many respects different from the rest of the Scottish
nation. These counties having been the chief part of the Pictish
kingdom, it is probable that they retain the greatest share of the
characteristics of that peculiar people;--having been less subject to
the invasion of the English, but more frequently intruded upon by
the adventurers of the north of Europe than the population of the
southern lowlands. The language of the people, accordingly, is
in many respects different from that which is current in the more
southern districts of Scotland. Dr Jamieson, who lived long in
this neighbourhnod, remarks, in his introduction to his Scottish
Dictionary, that the language of his country is spoken here in
greater purity and more copiously than in any part of Scotland
with which he was acquainted. His words are, "Having resided
for many years in the county of Angus, where the old Scottish is
spoken with as great purity as any where in Great Britain, I col-
lected a vast number of words unknown in the southern and west-
ern dialects of Scotland. Many of these I found the classical
terms in the language of Iceland, Sweden, and Denmark." It
was here, accordingly, that he formed the resolution of writing a dic-
tionary of the Scottish language.
	I have much pleasure in inserting the character of the parishion-
ers, as given by the Rev. George Ogilvy in 1784: "They are not
at all defective in Christian knowledge; they can almost all of them
read and write; among the tradesmen and trading-men there
are not a few abundantly knowing. They attend ordinances on the
Lord's day exceeding well; live generally in good neighbourhood
with one another, and carry kindly and respectfully enough to their
minister. They were never fond of the English service-book and
ceremonies; but much better pleased with the worship of the Es-
tablished Church." *
	Mr Alexander Peat, assistant to the Rev. Thomas Ogilvy, adds,
      " This account will in a great measure apply to the prerent state
of the parish (1801). The people are not behind their neighbours
in knowledge; in their attendance on public ordinances they are
in general very regular; the higher ranks are regular in their at-
tendance on worship in the places of meeting of their own persua-
sion." It is believed that when Mr Ogilvy wrote, there was no

<FOOTNOTE>There are many traditions that seem to indicate a great roughness of manners
in the inhabitants of this and the adjoining parishes. See original MS.
			               3


