
210                         FIFESHIRE.

signs the building of the house to Cardinal Bethune of St Andrews.
There is every reason to believe that it was erected by a Bethune
of Balfour, of which house the celebrated Cardinal was a mem-
ber. But as a decided proof that neither the Cardinal nor his
uncle David Bethune, his predecessor in the archbishoprick, and
who was also a son of one of the lairds of Balfour, bad any thing
to do with the erection of the mansion-house of Dunbog, it is suf-
ficient to state, that the Cardinal was put to death in 1546, nearly
a century before this property came into the possession of his fa-
mily. Long before the time of which we now speak, the monks
of the abbacy of Balmerino had a small building or preceptory on
the site of the present house of Dunbog. It was called the pre-
ceptory. of Gadvan, tenanted in general by two or three of the
brotherhood, whose chief occupation we presume to have been the
culture of some 24 acres of ground attached to their cell. A
small portion of this land is comprehended in the glebe-but it is
principally laid out in the garden and enclosures of Dunbog. Sib-
bald mentions also, that the parish church of Dunbog was given
by Alexander Cumin Earl of Buchan, to the abbacy of Aber-
brothock, in the reign of King Alexander II. There was a con-
siderable village here, in which a weekly market was held within
the memory of man. But it has totally vanished before the rapid
extension of the farming system.
   The parish is divided among three proprietors,-Lord Dundas,
Balfour of Fernie, and Joseph Francis Murry of Ayton.
   Parochial Reqisters.-Tbe parochial registers extend no far-
ther back than the year  1666. The first entry is dated September
23d of that year. From that period they have been kept with to-
lerable accuracy. The records are not very full, but they are
sometimes interesting, as illustrative of the manners of a former
age, of the comprehensive charity and national usefulness of the
Established Church. It is impossible to glance over them without
a feeling of surprise, at the frequency and largeness of parochial
contributions to a great variety of benevolent purposes. Not sa-
tisfied with the comfortable maintenance of their own poor,-with
relieving every unfortunate person that applied to them for a little
aid,-with paying their proportion of the expense incurred by the
education and support of the presbytery bursar,-we find the ses-
sion sending collections to the most distant parts of Scotland, to
assist in repairing the damage occasioned by fire,) at that time a
very fiequent disaster,) in alleviating the misery of the victims of such
calamities,-in building or improving harbours, bridges, and public


