
     Statistical Account

dated at Edzell,"the twentie two day of August, and
"thousand six hundereth sysrie nyn years," set apart two
crofts of land, adjoining to the church of Lochlee, 100 merks
Scotch, 6 bolls of oat-meal, with pasture for one horse, one
cow and 20 sheep, for the maintenance of a catechising
reader at Lochlee, whose office was to convene the pa-
rishioners in the minister's absence, to read a portion of
scripture, and to pray with them.  In 1723, Lochlee was
made a separate charge.  Lethnot and Navar being joined
together, and the manse and glebe of Navar with nine hun-
dred merks Scotch of stipend, and L. 50 Scotch for commu-
nion elements, were decerned to belong to the minister of
Lochlee.  In 1726, the heritor agreed to build a manse at
Lochlee, and to the designation of a new glebe there, in ex-
cambion for the glebe and manse of Navar; in the execution
of which, it was found, that the glebe of Navar was equal in
value to four seventh parts of a farm, near the church of
Lochlee, called the Kirk-town.  The minister of Lochlee,
therefore, now enjoys as a glebe, four seventh parts of the
arable land, grass and hill pasture, that formerly belonged
to that farm, and L. 54:3:4 Sterling of stipend and com-
munion element money.  The manse was built in 1750,
and is at present in tolerable repair.  The walls of the
church, although apparently very old, are still in good re-
pair; the roof was thatched with heath till 1784, when it
was covered with slates.  Since the year 1723, the morti-
fication above mentioned has been enjoyed by the paro-
chial schoolmaster, he having no other salary.  The Ho-
nourable Society for propagating Christian knowledge, have,
for many years appointed a schoolmaster, to teach in corners
of the parish most distant from the parish school, a measure
that has tended very much to disseminate knowledge in it.
The church and parochial school are near the centre of the 
parish, if regard is had to the boundary of the hill pasture;


