
               NELLSTON.                              329
at both places are exceedingly fine., They were the holy wells of
the Papists in former times, and,, if purity of water could confer
holiness, that name they deserved. The spring, 11 Boon ibe
Brae," issues from the solid rock, and is one of the finest and most
copious in the parish. It is perennial. Of these chappells no
traces remain. Even the walls and foundations of them cannot be
discovered.
Tradition speaks also of a'curiously carved Danish stone; of
tumuli on the Fereneze Braes; of battles lost and won; of human
bones dug up, enclosed in square freestone urns;. of petrified
shells, and impressions of trees and animals, especially shell fishes;
but all these h`ve now vanished. -Large trees, imbedded deep in
the mosses or mines, are occasionally found, passing ' into the coal
formation; but than this no other kind of fossil is dug up.
That these have been found in the parish, in ancient t imes, is
most likely; but if ever they existed, they are now amonf the
things that were.
Modern Buildings.-There is abundance of building going
on in the parish; but there has been none of late of any conse-
quence, saving Crofthead House, the property of James Orr,
Esq. and Company; and James Dunlop's, Esq.'of Arthurlie; both
of which are handsome and-elelrant buildings.
There are a few other good houses in the parish; such as Mr
Lownde's's, the Chappell, and Trees. None of the castles of the
old and ancient Nobility remain. Lord Glasgow, Sir Robert
Pollock of that ilk, Col. Mure, Col. Fulton, and Mr Speirs are'
non-residents ; and, with the exception of a few of -the smaller he-
ritors, the parish is inhabited chiefly by the proprietors or owners
of large manufactories, their foremen and operatives
Additions have been made to. different mills and public works
in the parish, some of which have been increased to'nearly double
their original size. A new printfield, for all kinds of calicoes wag
erected in 1835 at South Arthurlie at great expense. At Cross
Arthurlie field, another large print-shop was built - and additions
have bedn made to others. -But the most -plendidf additioia is
that of the Levern mill in 1834,-which consists'of five sioreys, 10
feet high, a sunk flat, and a garret,, and is 113 feet long, and 46
feet wide, and which joined to the old mill, makes an immeiiie pile
of building. The materials used in these buildings are generally
though sometimes whin'stone, both of 'Which ar6 at hand
in- great abundance.


