
               KILVINAN.

Boa is a considerable variety in the quality of the soil
throughout the parish, according to the different situations of the
land. In low and level ground near the sea, there is generallri a
fine light sharp soil, lying on a subsoil of pure gravel. This
soil, though not deep, produces good crops; and, when pro.
perly laid down, it vields eicplient gras. There are in several
places of higher situation, and farther removed from the sea,
pretty extenrive tracts of a kind of mossy soil, parts of which are
already cultivated, and all of which are capable of being made
good land by draining and labour, with the addition of a suitable
quantity of lime. Improvements,of this nature have, for several
years, been carried OD to a considerable extent on the estate of
MuDgo N. Campbell, Esq. of Ballimore; and though theire are
attended at first with no small expense, they promise to reply it abundantly.
Zoolo.qy.-In all the streams and lakes, there is abi2ndance of
the common small trout. The streams, however, are not suffi.
ciently large to admit of sea trout going up for spawning; though
it is said, that, in former times, salmon of considerable ' size
were much more ftequently seen in the pools near the mouth of
Kilfinan buro, than they have been for many years past. On the
South side of the Otter sand bank, noticed above, and towards the
extremity of it, there is aft excellent oyster bed, wbence are ob-
tained considerable quantities of oysters of superior quality, which
are known by the name of Otter oysters. Besides herrings,, the
loc abounds with the common kinds of white fish, such as whit.
ings and cod; but these are very little sought after, as the her-
ring-fishers do not think this kind of fishing worth their trouble,
even'when not employed at the herrings.
Botany.-Under this bead there is scarcely any thing worthy
of notice, the plants in this parish being such as are common in
almost every part of the Highlands. Among the rarer "eimens
may be mentioned the white foxglove (Diqitalis alba.) Nor is
there any thing remarkable in reference to the woods. In seve-
-ral places, there are enclosures of oak coppice, which are sold and
cut,every twenty years. These are generally on rough ground-s,
and on the sides of hills which could not be broughtander culti-
vation. Formerly these woods werevaluahle to the proprietors as
a source of income, but of late years bark has fallen to about-one-,
half only of what it used to bring. Mixed with the oak there 'R're


