
174			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

earth. It is interspered with nodules,-sometimes approaching to
the size of boulders,-of white and greenish whin; and, at a greater
depth, with blocks of red sandstone. The sandstone appears again
regularly in the beds of two streams which descend in a southerly
direction from the ridge, and is there lost in the eastward division of
the parish. The summits of the ridge consist of a kind of greywacke
slate and greenstone, traversed by narrow veins of quartz, and as-
suming on the eastern side a slaty structure. The intervening hol-
lows in thir acclivity are either low swampy meadows or peat mos-
ses. The plants in this tract are varied, and in the lower hol-
lows will be found all the more common moss and meadow plants.
	From the summit of this range to the Dryfe, the descent is sud-
den and steep, and the land better wooded. The banks of the
river are fringed With ash, elm, and oak, of which last a consider-
able part is coppice about ten or twelve years old, and planted
up with larch and Scots fir. The plants most worthy of notice in
this descent occur in the ravines upon its sides, which are clothed
with natural brushwood, and in the oak coppice.
	The Dryfe, nearly from its source, runs through a country com-
posed of greenstone and greywacke-slate in different modifications,
assuming in some places a softer texture, and the spotted appear-
anece more peculiarly belonging to the Water-of-Ayr stone, for
which it is sometimes used as a substitute. The rock then leaves the
bed of the river, and may be traced along a small stream (the Mil-
ton Burn,) north-westward to Ravencleugh, where it is frequently
found veined with quartz, and becomes of a reddish colour, as if
tinged with iron. In the opposite and eastern side of the river, it
appears in two other small streams, (Hook and Rockhillflat burns,)
and in the rounded hills which form the second or eastern ridge,
rising between the Dryfe and the Corrie, presenting no marked
features, and assuming nearly the same modifications of colour and
texture.
	This eastern ridge rises from the Dryfe with nearly equal steep-
ness with the western ridge, and reaches nearly an equal height,
The ground towards the Corrie Water consists almost entirely of
undulating round-backed hills of moor and sheep pasture, partially
cultivated, and composed geologically, as stated in the preceding
paragraph; and as it approaches the river, it widens into a narrow
plain of alluvial soil, and of rich productive meadows. This ridge
is nearly without wood, except on the descent towards the Dryfe,
where, as at Balgray and Hook, there are woods of considerable


