
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

is patron.  The church, manse, and offices, have been re-
paired, but not rebuilt since the year 1729; and, except the
want of some small repairs, are in pretty good condition.  By
a decreet in 1655, the stipend was modified to 43 L. 18 s. 10 d.
with 3 chalders of victual, 2 of corn, and 1 of bear; by a
new decreet in 1763, it was augmented to 69 L. 8 s. 10 1/12 d.
and no victual; and by a late decreet, it is now 71 l. 13 s. 4 d.
with 4 chalders of victual, one half bear, and the other half
oat-meal. The only dissenters here are Presbyterians, under
the different denominations of Cameronians, Burghers, and
Antiburghers. Of the first class, there are 3 or 4; of the
second, 1 or 2; and of the last, between 20 and 30; whose
meeting-house is at Sanquhar, within a mile of the march
between the two parishes. These separate themselves from
the establishment, and from one another, on account of mat-
ters merely political, or such mistakes and inconveniencies at-
tending judicial proceedings, as may be expected, so long as
men are not infallible, or connected here below with the
church militant; but which are no part of our religion, be-
cause no part of this church's terms of communion.  Of
course, division must, in this case, one would think, be ra-
ther unnecessary, unreasonable, and unwarrantable from scrip-
ture.  More aware of this, and more impressed with it, than
formerly, as would seem, (now that the dust and heat of con-
troversy have much subsided and abated,) the generality of
people are more inclined to judge and speak of there points

</UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

of his philosophical knowledge.  But as the description of this
falls to the share of another, it is here purposely omitted.  Be-
sides a small tract or two, in divinity, he published a history the
rebellion in the year 1715, executed with much minuteness and
fidelity, and containing a good deal of curious information.
To him succeeded Mr ROBERT HUNTER, his son-in law.  In
April 1770, the present incumbent; Mr. JOHN ROBERTSON, was
ordained assistant and successor to the said Mr Hunter; and at
his death, in May following, succeeded to the full charge.


