
82                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

and linger about the parish in great numbers during the summer
months, and are now also becoming very numerous at all seasons.
Did those who are melted by their squalid wretchedness, when
they come to their doors, see how much of their charity is spent
in whisky, it is probable that they would limit their benevolence
of this kind, and bestow it upon the more deserving poor among
themselves.
  Inns, &c.--There are about 30 public-houses in the parish, a
far greater number than ought to have been licensed among a po-
pulation of so inconsiderable an amount. Nine of them are on the
Garelochside, where one or at most two would have been abun-
dantly sufficient. Considering the rapidity with which habits of
drunkenness are increasing everywhere, it is much to be wished
that some effectual means could be resorted to for checking this
fearfully ruinous vice. Surely our courts of Justices have few things
brought before them more worthy of their serious consideration
than the licensing of public houses, many of which are unquestion-
ably public nuisances, as well as scenes of great degradation. It
would be a bitter insult to many neighbourhoods to allege that
they require as many tippling-houses as are actually thrust in
among them, and that too with the concurrence of a court of grave
deliberators, who have both law and conscience on their side in
restricting the number of these pest-houses.
  Fuel.--In several of the farm-houses peats are still burnt, but
coal is now becoming inore common even in them, and it is the
only fuel burnt in Helensburgh and the numerous villas along the
Loch side. The coal is usually brought from the neighbourhood
of Glasgow, though occasionally a lit tle of it is brought from the
Ayrshire coast.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  This parish has undergone very considerable changes since the
last Statistical account was written. The extent of land under
wood has been a good deal increased, especially on the estate of
Ar'dineaple. The extent of cultivation is greatly enlarged. The
system of husbandry is much improved, and the fertility of the soil
much increased. Helensburgh, from being a village with 100 in-
habitants, is now a town with many excellent houses, and a popu-
lation of 1400 people. The Garelochside, instead of having only
a few farm and cot-houses along it, is now studded with many taste-
ful villas, and ornamented shrubberies and gardens. The eight heri-
tors among whom the parish was divided are now dwindled down to
                                  4


