
370                      ABERDEENSHRE.

posed to be descendants of the original inhabitants.  They have
hitherto got the stances of their houses rent free, in consequence
of being bound by the original charter to pay teind fish to the
proprietors of the ground.  Owing to the fishermen being also
pilots, and some of them seamen and shipmasters, they do not pay
that attention to the fishing which its importance deserves.  The
original harbour, built in 1593, and named Port Henry, is occu-
pied by the fishermen's boats.
   Buchanhaven.-This village is also now within the Parliamen-
tary boundary of the burgh.  The inhabitants are employed in
the white and herring fisheries.  Five herring boats, and five white-
fishing boats belong to it.  A small harbour has been erected for
the accommodation of the fishermen belonging to the village.
   Community of Feuars.-Certain properties and privileges of
commonty and common pasturage, fuel, feal, and divot were grant-
ed to the original feuars of Peterhead, by Earl Marischall in the
charter of erection.  In 1774, these properties and privileges were
confirmed by the Governors of the Merchant Maiden Hospital,
who agreed to divide the commonties, and they accordingly con-
veyed those parts of them which fell to their feuars, to certain of
the feuars, for themselves, as feuars of the town of Peterhead, and
as trustees for and in name of the haill other (then) feuars there-
of, and of all such persons as should at any time thereafter be-
come feuars of the said town or lands, and the heirs and succes-
sors of all (the then) present and future feuars, to be improved
and applied as a majority of the said feuars, at the time, and from
time to time, should think fit, for the public good and utility of the
said town.  In the charters subsequently granted a share of these
properties and privileges is conveyed to the individual feuars.  The
rental of the feuars' properties now amounts to about L. 260 per
annum.  These properties are claimed by the magistrates, in vir-
tue of the Burgh Reform Act; and this claim has been resisted on
the part of the hospital and their feuars, on the ground that the same
are private property, arising out of legal deeds between superior
and vassal.  In order to have this point decided, mutual actions
of declarator have been raised, and are now depending in the Su-
preme Court.  These actions, it is probable, would not have been
necessary if proper inquiries had been made before the act was
passed.
   Museum belonging to Adam Arbuthnot, Esq.-The formation of
this museum has been the work of about twenty years.  It con-


