
408                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

but few Presbyterian clergymen remaining north of the Tay, and
only two or three who laboured in the work of the ministry, in the
shires of Ross and Cromarty. Amongst these he places " Mr
Thomas Ross, minister at Kinecardin," who, he says, " having
continued at his charge some time after the establishment of Pre-
lacy, owed his leaving them to a meeting with Mr M'Gilligen."*
(Vol. iii. p. 437, 8vo edit.) Mr Ross's name also appears in the
" roll of ministers who were non-conformists to Prelacy, and were
banished, turned out from their parishes, or confined," as given in
Wodrow ; (Vol. i. p. 329) ; though it is there erroneously placed
in the presbytery of Dingwall, instead of that of Tain, and with-
out the name of his parish prefixed. The same historian men-
tions, that, in the summer of 1675, Mr John M'Gilligen, Mr
Anderson, (of Cromarty,) Mr Frazer, (of Daviot, or Teviot, as he
spells it,) and Mr Thomas Ross, " were very frequent, and much
owned of the Lord in their work." On the 4th of November in
this year Mr Ross was apprehended for conventicles, (as the field-
meetings of the Covenanters were termed,) and imprisoned in
Tain: Here he remained until the 9th of October 1677, when
the council "appointed Mr Thomas Ross, who is prisoner in the
tolbooth of Tayn, to be liberate, upon his finding caution to com-
pear when called, upon the pain of 2000 merks." It would ap-
pear that Mr Ross died soon after his liberation from the "tol-
booth of Tayn," as there is no further mention made of him. He
was minister at Tain for several years, having gone there about
the year 1664. In the appendix to the "Memoirs of the Rev.
John Blackader," there is given a list of all the ministers who were
confined to the Bass; and under the date "1675" is inserted
"Thomas Ross, minister of Kineardine (Tain), for conventicles.
(Wodrow, Vol. ii. 393.)" But it is more than doubtful if Mr Ross

<FOOTNOTE> * This was the Mr John M'Gilligine, or M'Gilligen, who had been minister oF
Fodderty before the Restoration, and was deposed by the Bishop of Ross in May
1663, for non-conformity, after which be resided on an estate he possessed in the
parish of Alness. and, continued to exercise there the functions of the ministry, not-
withstanding the sentence of deposition. He was confined in the Bass for several
years, but survived the Revolution, and was appointed one ofthe ministers of Inver-
ness; be preached a little there, and died on the 8th June 1689. He left a son John,
who was served heir to his father in the paternal estate of Alness, 28th April 1691;
(Retours of Services,) and was for some years ruling-elder from that parish to the
presbytery of Dingwall. " On the 7th April 1719,- the Rev. John M'Gilligen Of
Alness was ordained and admitted minister of Lochailsh, by Mr John Morrison of
Urray, and was then recommended to repair to his charge at Lochailsh quam primum."
(Presb. Records. Vol. iii.) The ordination took place at Dingwall, in which pres-
bytery the parish of Lochailsh then was; but when the presbytery of Gairloch(now
of Lochoarron) was erected by act of Assembly in 1724, it formed part of that pres-
bytery.


