
610                          FORFARSHIRE.

is, of Independents, 3; of Episcopalians, II; of the United As-
sociate Synod, 16. There is, besides, one servant woman, an
Anabaptist, and another a Roman Catholic, in the parish. In
one or two cases, the heads of families are Dissenters, and the
families themselves belong to the Established Church. In some
other cases, there is a servant a Dissenter, whilst the heads and
all the rest of the family belong to the Established Church.
        Education.-There is no school at present in the parish, except
the parochial; and in it the ordinary branches of education are
taught. The fees are very moderate. The salary of the school-
master is L.31. The average amount of school fees per annum
is L. 1O, or L. 11. The schoolmaster has the legal accommoda-
tions.
        Library.-There is a parochial library in the parish, conducted
by a committee of managers.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor at present on
the roll or receiving parochial aid, is 12. The number varies from
8 to 12 or 13. Besides the regular monthly allowance, there are
sums paid for house-rents, coals, clothes, funeral expenses, &c.
amounting to about L. 12 a year for the last seven years. The
average yearly amount of church collections for the last seven
years is L.26, 8s. 3 1/4d. The yearly average amount of other funds
for the same period is L.9, 11s. 8 1/2d. As we have, for a number
Of years, been expending more than we have been receiving, the
heritors have kindly and wisely come forward, and contribute a
sum every half-year in order to prevent the funds we have
from l being wholly swept away. The disposition among the
poor to refrain from seeking parochial relief is still exhibited in
some few instances; but it is fast disappearing.
        Fairs.-There are no fairs held now in the parish. In former
days, but very long ago,there was one held near the manse. Tra-
dition calls it St Triduane's, commonly pronounced St Trod-
lin's. It is now held at Forfar; but there is a stone still standing
near the kirk-stile, where, it is said, the superior of the fair, Lord
Strathmore, or his deputy, held, on fair days, his court.
        Alehouse.-There are three alehouses in the parish.
        Fuel.-The principal fuel used in the parish is coal, procured
usually from Arbroath.


