
                             WALSTON.                       859

him, or to redress his grievances, which seems to have been the
cause of his removal; but so great a favourite was he with some of
the parishioners, that " some women at Walston" prevented him
from leaving the parish on the day first appointed for his adimission
at Glenholm, the 31st March.  The parish again suffered a va-
cancy till 1705, when Mr Thomas Lining, whose name is still
held in veneration, was ordained, 10th May ofthat year; he died
20th December 1731.  In 1732, George Lockhart of Carnwath
presented Mr Adam Petrie; and the presentation, together with
Mr Petrie's letter of acceptance, was laid before the Presbytery
at their meeting, 15th June; but there being no appearance on
the part of the parish, consideration of the matter was delayed till
the 13th July, when there being still no appearance on the part of
the parish, the Presbytery, after due consideration, resolved by a
great majority, that the jus devolutum had fallen into their hands!
The reasons for this conclusion were stated to be, 1. The infor-
mality of the letter of acceptance ; 2. Mr Petrie's not being qua-
lified according to law.  This was in all probability founded on
the want of a call. " 3. The want of evidence of Mr Lockhart's
being qualified according to law, or being patron of Walston."
The case was appealed to the superior courts, and remitted to a
committee of Assembly, before which it was stated on the part of
Mr Lockhart, that he was willing to pass from his presentation to
Mr Petrie, and present a person who should be approved by some
ministers named.  The Presbytery at last agreed not to insist on
the right which they supposed they bad acquired, and Mr Lock-
hart immediately nominated Mr Patrick Hepburn, who was or-
dained 14th August 1734, and translated to the parish of Ayton,
Presbytery of Chirnside, 14th June 1753.  A presentation was
laid on the table of the Presbytery in favour of John Thomson,
11th October 1753, and after considerable opposition he was or-
dained 20th May 1753,-a most unhappy settlement of which the
parish of Walston still feels the effects.  Mr Thomson appears
to have been a good and even a pious man, but an insufficient and
unacceptable minister.  During his incumbency the congregation
was dispersed,-the church at last was literally deserted,-and for
many years the sacrament of the Lord's supper was not dispensed;
he died 11th August 1787, and was succeeded by Patrick
Molleson, who was ordained 5th August 1788.  To him this pa-
rish is much indebted.  He drew together a respectable congre-
gation, and secured them to the church by his diligence and fide-


