
	1054                        PERTHSHIRE.

	which occasion he was knighted by the Regent Randolph, and
	then conferred this distinction on several of the nobility.
	   When the assistance of the English King had enabled Edward
	Baliol to invade Scotland, and his success in the battle of Dupplin
	emboldened him to take possession of Perth, where he was joined
	by many of the disaffected, he was crowned at Scone on the 24th
	September 1332.  After the restoration of David II., who returned
	from France in his eighteenth year, and, with his wife, landed at
	Inverbervie on the 4th of May, Scone is mentioned as the place
	where the Parliament assembled.  It was in a Parliament held at
	Scone in March 1363, that David Bruce, whose weakness con-
	trasts so unfavourably with the gallantry of his illustrious father,
	and whose wife had died childless the year before, proposed that
	Lionel, Duke of Cambridge, Edward's third son, should be chosen
	to fill the Scottish throne in the event of his dying without issue.
	The proposal was rejected with indignation.  After the death of
	David in February 1371, his nephew Robert, the Steward of Scot-
	land, ascended the throne.  During his reign, a Parliament was
	held at Scone, in which the succession of his children by his first
	wife, Euphemia, was set aside in favour of his former children by
	Elizabeth More.  This king was succeeded by his son John, who
	was crowned at Scone under the name of Robert III., the name
	John having been unfortunate for kings, both of England and
	France; and here also, it is said, was the Parliament held at
	which David, the King's eldest son, afterwards starved to death
	in Falkland, was created Duke of Rothsay, and Robert, the King's
	brother, Duke of Albany.  Buchanan, however, states, that this
	Parliament was held at Perth, and notices, that these were the
	two first Scottish dukes.  "Hic sane honoris titulus tum pri-
	mum inter Scotos, magno ambitionis, nullo virtutis incremento, est
	celebratus : nec cuiquam postea feliciter cessit."--Buch. Lib. x.
	   The next interesting incident at Scone was the coronation of
	James I. and his queen.  He had married, on the 24th of Fe-
	bruary 1424, the Lady Joanna Beaufort, the daughter of the
	Duchess of Clarence by her first husband, the Duke of Somerset,
	and the descendant oi Edward III., to whom he is said to have
	become attached some years before.  The treaty for his liberation
	from his long imprisonment in England had been concluded in
	September, 1423, but he is said to have seen and admired his fu-
	ture-queen from his prison in the Round Tower in Windsor Castle,
	and that this suggested, his poem of "The King's Quhair." "He




