
580                            FIFESHIRE.

here about four miles broad, but, as high sand-banks stretch out-
ward for nearly a mile, vessels of limited burden only can approach
the harbour. No river or stream of any consequence passes
through the parish, but there are various springs from which a co-
pious flow of water continually issues, which, along with that col-
lected from the drainage of the land, affords power enough for
three thrashing and one corn-mill. The springs have obviously
served, in other days, a more dignified and important end than
the practical and economical one to which they are now applied.
This appears from the names by which some of them are are still
signated, viz. the Lady Well, Prior Well, St Jnhn's Well, de.
  Geology.*-The rocks in this parish belong exclusively to the
sandstone and trap families. Of the former there are two va-
rieties, both of which belong to the old red sandstone formations.
One of these is the gray sandstone, which is considered by Dr
Anderson (Edin. Phil. Journal, July 1837,) as the lowest member
of the series, and which, from the organic remains imbedded in
it, he regards as the same with the beds that traverse the Sidlaws,
Strathmore, and the upper part of Strathearn. These remains are
exclusively vegetable, being the culms, leaves, and fruit of the or-
der Gramineae, and which are found in great abundance in one
of the softer beds of the deposit that emerges a little to the west
of Wormit Bay, From this point, where it may be traced across
the frith to Invergowrie bay, the sandstone ranges westward through
the parish, cropping out at Demmons, and various other places
on the estate of Birkhill. It is an extremely compact and dura-
ble rock, and is admirably adapted for building operations. The
bed in which the organic remains are found, is friable and soft,
and seems to abound more in aluminous than silicious matter.
The mica is also very abundant in this part of the deposit.
  The other variety of sandstone is of a reddish colour. It crops
out immediately at the harbour, and ranges westward to Birkhill,
where it may be observed on the beach bendath the mansion-house.
It contains a considerable quantity of quartzy noduldes, and por-
tions of other primitive rocks. A scale-only one-has been
found in it, similar to those which occur so abundantly in the Park-
hill and Clashbennie beds, also at Dura and Drumdryan, and
from this circumstance, it may fairly be regarded as a continuation
of these interesting rocks. The bed at the harbour is coarse

<FOOTNOTE> For this geological description I have been indebted to the Rev. Dr Anderson Of
  Newburgh.


