
                                CRIEFF.                           525

     was once so characteristic of our Scottish population,has now great
     ly, declined; and, in as far as paupers are concerned at least, it
     in some danger of being entirely lost.
        Prisons.-There is a jail, to which we have formerly alluded as
     having been erected in the year 1665. It is still used as a place
     of temporary imprisonment, till the offenders are otherwise dispos-
     ed of by the proper authorities. It is seldom that any one is con-
     fined in it longer than a single night. And it might perhaps be
     prejudicial to the health of the immates, if they were kept there
     for a much longer period. It is abundantly. secure for all the pur-
     poses required.
        Pairs.-There is a weekly market every Thursday principal-
     ly for the accommodation of the neighbouring famers; and ori-
     ginally there were three annual fairs, viz. St Thomas', which was
     formerly held on new year's day;-Douchlage, which was held on
     the third Tuesday of June O.S.; and Michaelmas, which was by
     far the most considerable, and which was held on the 10th of Oc-
     tober. But as Crieff occupies a central situation, and as Lord
     Willoughby has granted a commodious stance, it has been found
     expedient to transfer, the markets that previously belonged to the
     neighbouring parishes, to the place. Nine annual fairs are now
     held at Crieff, and they are arranged as follows: St Thomas', held
     on the first Thursday of January; Strowan do. third Thursday of
     February; Big Thursday do. second Thursday of March; Lady
     do. first Thursday of April; Turret do. first Thursday of June;
     Douchlage do last Thursday of June; Monivaird do. second Thurs-
     day of; July; Monsie do third Thursday of August; Michaelmas
     do. Thursday immediately preceding the October Falkirk Tryst.
     These fairs are intended for the sale of catlle farm produce and
     utensils of every description.
        In former days the principal fairs at Crieff were opened with
     considerable pomp by the Duke of Perth in person. He held his
     court (often in the open air) in the morning, with a view to make
     the necessary arrangements, settle differences, and
     the commission of outrages among the community. He after-
     wards rode through the market at the head of his guard, and pro-
     claimed his titles at the different marches or boundaries of his pro-
     perty. Many of the feuars are bound by their charters to provide
     a given number of the halbert-men that composed the guard at
     the fairs; and it is not many years since their services were dis-
     pensed with.*

     <FOOTNOTE)The halberts are preserved in the armoury at Drummoud Castle.


