
     of Abernyte.

sure, 2 s. 3 d.; Sunderland, same measure, 2 s. 4 d.; Forth,
wheat measure, 1 s. 6 d.  The general allowance the acre,
25 bolls barley measure, or 34 of wheat measure.  Lime is
laid on with a crop of wheat or barley.  The manner of
ploughing uniformly is with two horses and one man; the
plough is the common English.  No cattle are used in hus-
bandry in any part of the parish.  The number of ploughs
is 31, of carts 35.  No rotation of crops can be said to be
observed in this parish.  They endeavour to have wheat e-
very 4th year, for which they prepare the ground by fallow,
pease, potatoes, or by a half fallow after flax  The quantity
of grain produced cannot be stated with precision.  Number
of acres sown with wheat about 70; pease 20; potatoes 12
or 14; flax 16; turnip 14; grass 70; barley about 120;
oats is the principal crop, but it is impossible to state the
number of acres, as that varies every year as the season
may suit for breaking up outfield grounds.  Little barley is
sown in outfield, and bear is not cultivated.  Various spe-
cies of wheat have been introduced here from the Carse,
but the Scots white wheat is chiefly cultivated, having from
its hardness been found most suited to the climate.  The
oats used are the common white, a few parcels of black and
gray in the outfields, and some easily Dutch in rich soils.
Several experiments have been made with other kinds of
early oats, with larger grains, but none have turned out so
profitable as these, which often produce 10 bolls the acre.
The general produce of an acre may be estimated, of wheat,
barley and infield oats, about 7 bolls each; outfield oats 4;
pease 3.  Pease are not sown for the crop, but merely as a
mean of melioration.  The kind commonly used is an ear-
ly black.  Beans are very seldom attempted.  Flax pro-
duces 25 stones the acre; quantity sown is 10 pecks the
acre.  The seed is generally saved; though little of it is fit
for sowing again, it brings about 1 s. the peck for the oil-

     VOL. IX.   T


