
328                      INVEIRNESS-SHIRE.

The quadrupeds common on the mainland of Scotland, are all to
be found here, except the liare, mole, and polecat, which are not
to be met with in Skye. Hares have been introduced once or
twice; but they very speedily disappeared, whether owing to the
jealousy of those who feed them, but have not the privilege of
Shooting them, or. to the unsbeltered,nature of the country, I have
not the means of ascertaining. The other two species of animals
have, I believe, been never seen in the island,--a fact which the
inhabitants have no cause to regret.
Of fishes, the herring is undoubtedly the most important in an
economical point. of view, next to whih come the cod and ling,
large quantities of which are annually caught along the sbores,-
quantities capable of very considerable increase, were the inhabit-
ants active or enterprising fishers. Turbot, mackerel, skate, had-
dopk, and flounder, are likewise to be met with, but not in large
numbers. Shell-fish is very abundant whenever the beach is
smooth, and is much prized by the poorest of the people, to man v
of whom it affords sustenance, in the latter end of summer, when,
generally, every other provision fails.
It is worth y of remark regarding the herring. that they are
found of very different qualities in the different lochs that indent the
parish, and that they are almost always found of the same quality
and appearance in the same loch. This would seem to warrant
the belief, that Hearings, like salmon, have peculiar localities to
which they regularly resort.
   Botany.--The botany of the parish is, like its geology, very
uniform, and consequently uninteresting. No rare plant has been
discovered in it except the Mimulus luteus, an American plant,
which is to be found in a dich close by the inn at Dungan;
and it is supposed, though there is no certain proof of this, that it
is not indigenous to Duirinish, but has, been thrown out of some
garden into its present situation.
   There is one culinary vegetable-the cabbage, which, thrives
better in this parish, I believe, than anywhere else in Scotland.
The Glendale Cabbaqe is known,and sought after not only through-
out all Skye, but likewise in many places on the mainland; and
its immense size, combined with its delicacy of flavour, entitles it to
the pre-eminence wliidh it has attained. The seed is said to have
been obtained from a foreign vessel which, was wrecked at the foot
of Glendale many years ago. Whether it be a distinct species I
am not able to determine.


