
 542                         LANARKSHIRE

the same period. Their wages are much higher in summer than in
winter. During the formed period,they range from L.3, 10s. to L.4,
and sometimes even L.4, 4s. but in winter they are -much lower.
The general rate of labour for day labourers is 1s. 6d. per day in-
cluding victuals, but masons and carpenters receive higher wages.
	In consequence of the various Agricultural Societies which have
been established in the neighbourhood, and the cattle-shows which
have been instituted, much attention has of late years been paid to
the improvement of the breed both of cattle and horses. The
particular breed of cattle which has attracted most attention is the
Ayrshire, and the greater part of the farmers testify a very land-
able desire to excel in rearing such. Some of the farmers are
disposed to allege, that the horses now reared do not in many in-
stances possess so much bone as formerly. There are, however,
a number of well-formed and strong working horses to be seen,
and some estimate may be formed of their value, when it is stated
that a one-year old colt will sometimes bring from L.20 to L.30.
        Husbandry.-The character of the husbandry pursued is in gene-
ral good. Situated as the parish is, at a considerable elevation,
about 700 feet above the level of the sea, oats and barley are the
principal kinds of grain sown. Potatoes are grown to a considerable
extent, and turnips to a much greater. The greatest care is taken
to prepare the ground for both of these kinds of crops, by frequent
ploughing and harrowing; and when the soil appears to be suffi-
ciently pulverized, the manure is applied in drills, and in general
an excellent crop rewards the industry and expense of the tenant.
 The manure is generally such as has been made upon the farm,
and from the number cattle kept, and the great quantity of tur-
nips an4 fodder consumed, it has not been,found necessary, except
in a very few instances to have recourse to bone dust, or other
manures. And here it may be proper to state, that a great num-
ber of milk cows are regularly kept on every farm. Butter and
cheese are articles. to which the farmer looks as much for the
payment of his rent, as to his oats and barley, and hence the great
quantities of each which are regularly sent to the Edinburgh
market. It is the general practice for the farmers to keep from
fifteen to twenty cows, and in some instances there are no fewer
than thirty-five or forty. The former practice was to make butter,
and what was termed skim-milk or common, cheeses but of late
several of the farmers  have got into the way of making sweet milk


