
                     BOINDIE                                225

  Antiquities.-- Various military antiquities, discovered here, are
worthy of notice; some of them, perhaps, connected with the Da-
nish engagement referred to. To the west of the locality, described
in connection with it, on the rocky eminences on the north side of
the road, two circular encampments may still be traced. Immedi-
ately below the upper one of these on the southern declivity, stands
a large perpendicular stone, surrounded by, a causeway. A little
beyond this, on the opposite side of the road, not far from the
site of the old mansion-house of Buchragie, may be traced the
huge remains of what may possibly have been a Roman camp.
On a field lying to the north-east of the manse, and on the south
side of the Banff and Portsoy road, there may be traced a large '
circular excavation, supposed to mark the site of an ancient en-
campment.  In this neighbourhood, and over the district, nume-
rous flint arrow-heads have been turned up by the plough ; many
of them of a yellow kind of flint, not found in boulders in this
part of the country. A short Roman\f* sword was found in the
bogs of Reattie, and lodged in the armoury at Duff House. In
the immediate neighbourbood of the manse offices, on the west
side, a stone coffin with its contents was found a number of years
ago, and deposited again in its place. A huge red stone is said
to have stood about, this spot before the erection of the offices.
  Three Druidical circles are known to the writer in the parish;
one near the parish church, another within a mile to the north-
east, and a third on the farm of Bankhead. At some distance to
the south of the last, on the same rising ground, known  by the
name of the Lodgehills, are to be seen a number of large stones,
not, however,'circularly disposed, commonly. called the Brannan
Stanes. Under one of these, an urn, containing coins, said to
have been much defaced was found a number of years ago.  On
the field to the north-east of the manse, already described, and
on the line of an old road, was found\f+ a few years ago, a seal,
composed of fine clay slate, at first supposed to bear the arms of
Archbishop Sharp, who was a native of Banff. These have been
since proved to be the armorial bearings of Bishop James Kennedy,
also of St Andrews, who founded the University of St Andrews,in

<FOOTNOTE>The grant Roman road to Burghead is believed to have crossed by the hill of
Barry, near tbe Knockbill.  A hypothesis is hazarded by some, and maintained on
plausible grounds, that the Knock hill is the Mons. Gramphius of Tacitus.
           By Mr Alexandgr Cumming, in Craigherbs, who himself takes considerable
interest in matters of antiquity ; and although a man of limited education, has no
mean powers as a writer of verses.


