
     Statistical Account

   Living of the People.-No luxurious mode of living has
yet obtained among any class in this parish.  To the farmer,
the farm or the parish supplies almost every dainty except
sugar and tea.  Seldom any spirit is used but whisky.  The
wages earned by labourers, compared with the price of
provisions, point out that the rearing of a family cannot be
attended with great difficulty.  There has not been an in-
stance of a family applying for relief to the session when
the parents were in health.  The staple provision among
the labouring class is here, as in almost all Scotland, oat-
meal.  Very little meal of pease or barley is now eaten,
while wheat flour is daily coming more into use.  Every pea-
sant possesses a milk cow, which, if he rent no land, costs
about L. 1, 10 s. a-year.  Great part of this class occupy
an acre or two of land, and thus supply themselves with
milk at less perceptible expense.  From August to April,
potatoes in a great measure are substituted for oat-meal, to
which they add a little salt-meat.  In spring and summer
they scarce taste butcher-meat, except a little unfed veal,
which sells from 1 1/2 d. to 2 d. the pound.  Since so much
attention was paid to breeding cattle, this article of pro-
vision is become scarcer.  Tea and sugar are little used by
this class of people, though they are daily becoming more
fashionable.  Their chief luxuries are snuff, tobacco and
whisky; the use of whisky has become very great.  In
this small parish there are two licensed, besides some pri-

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

from 4 s. 6 d. to 5 s. 6 d. the tone.  The price of wheat is commonly a-
bout 6 d. or 1 s. above, and barley 1 s. below the Haddington market
Oat-meal from 10 d. to 1 s. 1 d the pool.  The price of grain from this
country, in the Canal and other markets, to which it is exported, has
been much hurt of late by the injudicious practice among lome buyers,
of mixing in the same cargo the fine large full grain of low rich soils, with
the lean light stuff from the hills.  This parish raises a great deal more
provision than serves itselt.  The overplus is disposed of in the markets of
Perth, Cupar in Augus, and Dundee, chiefly in the last.

</UNREADABLE>


