
                                ROSSKEEN.                           267

	M'Killigen, formerly minister of Fodderty in Wester Ross, cele-
	brated the communion at Obsdale, in this parish, in the house of
	the Lady Dowager of Foulis. "There assisted him," says Wod-
	row,  "Mr Hugh Anderson, minister of Cromarty, and Mr Alex,-
	ander Fraser, minister at Teviot, afterwards at Abbotsball." There
	was, it appears, on this occasion  "such a plentiful effusion of the
	spirit, that the eldest Christians there declared they had not been
	witnesses to the like." The ministers engaged in this solemnity
	experienced a remarkable preservation ; for a party of soldiers was
	sent by Sir Roderick M'Kenzie of Findon, to apprehend Mr
	M'Killigen, who bad rendered himself particularly obnoxious to
	those in power. "Expecting he would have dispensed the sacra-
	anent at Alness, the place of his residence, the party came thither,
	upon the Lord's day, and missing him, they fell a pillaging his or-
	chard, which kept them so long, that before they could reach Obs-
	dale, the forenoon's work was over, and upon notice given, the
	ministers retired. After the party went off, the ministers and peo-
	ple met again in the afternoon, and had no more disturbance."
	An old natural fir tree still marks the spot, and it is worthy of
	note, that the traditional account preserved; in the parish of this
	event, accords in every particular with. that given by Wodrow.
	     Eminent Men.-William Macintosh, the author of Travels in
	Europe, Asia, and Africa, and other literary works, was born at
	Newmore, in this parish, in the year 1738. He was the son of
	Lachlan Macintosh, a descendant of the family of Macintosh of
	Balnespick, in Badenoch, and of - Macpherson, of the same
	family as Sir John Macpherson, at one time Governor of India.
	This branch of the familv of Macintosh had, however, been for
	some time settled in Rozs-shire; and in Alness church-yard, the
	graves of John Macintosh and Janet Montgomery of Kiltearn his
	spouse, (the grandfather and grandmother of Villiam Macintosh,)
	are still to be seen. William went, when young, to the West Indies,
	where he realized a considerable property,-but shortly after his re-
	turn to Europe, about 1775, he embarked for the East Indies, where
	he resided for several years. He published a very amusing account
	of his travels and adventures in the East, which is remarkable as
	originally propounding, and foretelling the ultimate adoption of.
	almost all the theoretical views and precepts which have subse-
	quently been carried into practice by various British statesmen in
	the administration of our East Indian possessions. This work was
	published in English anonymously, by Mr Maciutosh ; and it is


