
	128                         BANFFSHIRE.

	   Soil.-The soil of the parish though occasional thin and
	moory, may, on the whole, be said to be good.  At Tomalinan,
	not far from the marl pit mentioned in the former report, is a bank of
	land where the loam is upwards of three feet deep, said not to be
	inferior to any land in Banffshire; while on mains of Morange, and
	some of the neighbouring farms, it is a strong rich clay, extreme-
	ly productive in favourable seasons.  In Inveraven proper, the loam
	is more gravelly than in Glenlivet; but still, as well as the haugh
	land along the sides of the rivers, of a kindly nature, and in general
	yielding good crops; but a little to the east of the Aven, imme-
	diately south of the toll-road, the sub-soil is so retentive, that all
	the efforts of the late and present proprietor, which have not been
	few, have hitherto been unable to render productive such parts of
	the district as have been brought into cultivation.  The new sys-
	tem of lineal drains at short distances, as yet scarcely known in
	this quarter, has lately been tried on one of the fields, which, it is
	hoped, will be attended with better success, and so give encourage-
	ment to the cultivation and farther improvement of a district no
	less offensive to the eye of the traveller than it is unproductive in
	itself, and unprofitable both to the proprietor and other occupants.
	    Zoology.-This parish abounds in game.  Partridges, moorfowl,
	and common hares are very numerous, and white hares by no
	means uncommon.  Ptarmigan are to be met with on the moun-
	tains and in Inveraven proper, where there is also black game.
	An attempt has been made, but not as yet apparently with much suc-
	cess, to introduce pheasants.  Roe are numerous about Ballindalloch
	and in the lower part of the parish, while to the tipper districts, red
	deer occasionally stray from the forest of Glenfiddich, which, how-
	ever, soon find their way back, or pay the forfeit of their temerity
	with their lives.  Foxes, weasels, and polecats are common.  The
	first are of a large size, and very destructive, as well as dogs, to
	the lambs on the hills.  Formerly, the eagle seems to have
	bred near the top of Benrinnes, where the remains of a nest are
	still to be seen; but this prince of the feathered tribe has long
	since deserted the lower district, and is only to be seen in the
	upper districts of the parish when occassionally extending his
	light beyond his favourite domains, of which the lofty Ben-
	macdui and far-famed Cairngorum are the almost impregnable ci-
	tadels.  Rooks with pure white wings have been observed, and in
	the near neighbourhood (but upon the opposite side of the Spey,
	in that part of the Ballindalloch estate which lies in the parish of
	Knockando,) a covey of red grouse were seen, some years ago,


