
1022                     PERTHSHIRE.

and is in a good and comfortable state.  The glebe is about 12
Scotch acres in extent, and may be valued at about 12s. per acre,
The stipend is L.'70, 3s. 21d., and abdut- six chalders of victual,
half meal, half barley, payable according to the fiars of the county,
   The number of householders in the parish at the time of the
last census was 372.  Of these 309 belong to the Established
Church; 59 to the United Secession Church ; 2 to the Synod of
Original Seceders; and 2 to the Roman Catholics.
   In favourable weather, divine service is well attended at the Es-
tablisbed Cburcb.  The ntimber of communicants since the ereo.
tion of the new parish of Blairngone in 1841 is upwards of 300;
before that time, it was from 400 to 500.  There are some con-
tributions yearly for the General Assembly's schemes, and for the
purpose of education in the parish.
  The Extension church already mentioned was opened'for public
worship in the spring of 1838.   It is situated in the west end of
the parish, a little east from the village of Blairngone, and about
four miles from the parish church.  The ground on which it stands
was given gratuitously by Mark Watt, Esq.-that gentleman, in
addition to a handsome subscription, having generously made us a
present of half-a Scotch acre of land.  The church was used foF
some time as a preaching stations the minister of the parish offici-
ating in it when his presence was required to, administer the ordi-
vance of baptism.
  By the constitution of the church, agreed to at a meeting of the
subscribers on 28th October 1839, the boundary between the
proposed new parish and the parish of Fossoway was fixed; one
article containing these words, in reference to, tivis point, that
the, parochial territory of the church of Blairingone shall be.
That part of the parish of, Fossoway lying to the west of a line
from the conflux of the Garney and the Devon, immediately by
the east, of the house of Barnhill, to the southern boundary of the
parish." But after this agreement, an attempt was unhappily made
to extend the boundary much nearer to the parish church.  This
attempt, however was successfully resisted, and the matter
finally settled by the Presbytery, acting tinder a remit to them by
General Assembly at their meeting in December 1840, when
they determined to hold by "the original boundary aggreed upon
by the subscribers."  The population within that part of the pa-
rish of Fossoway thus assigned was, at the last census, 558, most


