
440                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

professing to be connected with their congregations. It was found
by a careful survey made, to enable the ministers of the Established
Church to prepare their report, that 320 families, comprehending
about 1400 individuals of all ages, had no right to sittings in any
place of worship. From which it appeared that there were 4488
individuals of all ages, or about 1016 families, belonging to the
Establishment. Since that time, the congregation of Spittal Square,
with the exception of a few individuals, has been united with the
Established Church. This congregation, however, is small; and
some increase has taken place in the Independent congregation,
by means of several visits made to Stirling by some teachers of
that persuasion, who laboured with great zeal, both by public
preaching and by domiciliary visits, to obtain proselytes from the
Presbyterian churches; and were in some degree successful in
drawing off individuals, both from the Established Church and from
the Seceders. The relative proportion, therefore, of the adherents
of the Established Church remains much as it was in 1836. It is to
be remarked that the families having no sittings anywhere, almost
in every instance profess to belong to the Established Church;
and probably some considerable proportion of them do occasion-
ally, and a few with something like regularity, attend public wor-
ship in one or other of the congregations connected with it. Most
of the places of worship are well attended. The average num-
ber of communicants in the churches connected with the Establish-
ment, may be from 1200 to 1300.-Tbe only societies, properly
belonging to the parish, for strictly religious purposes, are the Tract
Society which distributes 2900 tracts monthly, some hundreds of
which, however, go beyond the bounds of the parish; and the
Sabbath School Society. The Female society, for the benefit of
aged and destitute women, combines the temporal relief of its objects
with attention to tbeir religious instruction. The Stirling Dispensary is
supported by a regularly organized society, for supplying poor patients
with medical attendance and medicines. The annual average
amount of the contributions of these societies is about L.200, 15s. 8 1/2d.
Besides these, Stirling is the seat of one county Missionary, and two
county Bible Associations; whose annual contributions amount at
an average to L. 216, 11s. 21/d. The average annual amount of
church collections for religious and charitable purposes for the
last five years was about L.382.
  Education.-The number of schools in the parish of all kinds,
exclusive of Sabbath schools, is 19; of Sabbath schools, 18; total


