
		      KIRKINTILLOCH.                      173


are mostly low, ragged and ungainly, but near Oxgang and Dun-
tiblae, they are high, imposing, and finely wooded. The Buth-
land Burn rises at Garnkirk, winds in a romantic manner around
the fine old turreted mansion-house of Bedlay, solacing the whole
scene with its pleasing and perpetual murmurings, and finally loses
itself in the Luggie at Oxgang. Another small streamlet, called
the Bord Burn, rises near Croy-mill, crosses below the Forth and
Clyde Canal at Shirva, and is soon after swallowed up in the Lug-
gie. All the streams which flow into the Luggie are from the
south, whilst those which flow into the Kelvin, with one exception,
are from the north. This latter river is the trough of the waters
which flow from the bordering counties of Lanark and Stirling.
There is a small lake at Gartshore, named the Bord Loch, which
covers about four acres of ground. It has some pike, and is fre-
quented by wild ducks and teals. It seems to receive its chief
supply of water from a copious spring in the centre, which in the
severest frosts is seldom covered with a thick coat of ice. This
arises from the spring-well temperature of the water, great part of
which is seldom much below 50&deg; of Fahrenheit. Accidents are
accordingly said to have occurred here on the ice. There is a
tradition of the loss of a great many lives on one occassion, by the
ice giving way, when overloaded by curlers. The Forth and Clyde
Canal, which forms the most important hydrographical feature of
the district, will be mentioned in its proper place.
  Geology and Mineralogy.--The district of Lenzie lies on the
northern border of the great coal field of Lanarkshire, after all the
main seams of the most valuable metals crop out, and where the
different beds of limestone on which they rest come to the surface
with their accompanying deposits of coal and ironstone. It is also
connected on the east with the great carboniferous deposits, which
stretch along both sides of the Forth, includinh on the south
side of that river, the district as far east ar Blackness, and from
Avon Water to the Forth, and the whole range of coal country on
the north of that river from Culross to Dollar, and eastward by Dun-
fermline, Auchterderran, Leven, Largo, Elie, St Monance, and
near to St Andrew. Were a geological map of this part of Scotland
to be produced, the district of Lenzie would probably be included
in the range of these coal fields. It is in vain, however, to search
here for any of the main seams of the great Lanarkshire basin,
as they are all run out before they reach this locality. This great


