
                      KILPINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.             301

kenneth at that time belonged to the prioress of Iona.  Thus he
proceeds, as related in Macfarlane's MS., Advocate's Library :
"On the north and north-north-eist of Colmkill lyes an Iyle be
12 myles of sea, till within the entres of Locheseaford foresaid,
callit Inchekenzie, half ane myle in lenthe, and not fully half a
myle in breadthe, a fair Ile, fertile and fruitfull, inhabit and man-
nurit, full of cunnings about the shores of it, with a paroch kirk,
the maist parochin being upon the main shoar of Mull, being online
an half myle distant from the said Ile, and the haill parochin of
it pertains to the Prioress of Colmkill."
   The ruins of this parish church, or it may be chapel, are still
very entire; they stand about 60 feet in length by 30 in breadth.
Near to the ruins are the remains of a cross.  The cemetery
around the chapel is covered with tombstones of chieftains and
other personages, and still continues to be used as a place of sepul-
ture.  The remains of Sir Allan Maclean's cottage, where, with
his two daughters, he so hospitably entertained Dr Johnson and
his friends, are yet to be seen.  The description which their
learned guest has given of his visit is one of the most interesting
and pleasing passages in his narrative.  The ashes of Sir Allan
rest near the spot where he related to the Doctor his American
campaign ; but the estate has long since gone from the family. It
is now the property of Colonel Robert Macdonald, who has built
a mansion house on the island ; and, like Sir Allan, resides there
in agreeable retirement, after having fought and bled in the cause
of his country.  Close to Inniskenneth is the small islet of Sandi-
land, visited likewise by the Doctor, and capable of grazing a few
sheep.
   Further up Loch-na-gaul is Eorsa, which is thus described by
Dean Munro in 1549, in the MS. before alluded to: " Within
this Iyle of Inch Kenzie, in the said Loche of Seafort, be an myle
of sea, lyes an ile callit Eorsay, ane fertile ile, full of corne and
grassing, mair than a myle lange, pertaining to the Priorers of
Colmkill."  There are no inhabitants here now, and no crops of
any kind raised, it being used solely for feeding sheep, and,it be-
longs in property to the Duke of Argyle.
   Sea Coast, &c.-In a parish so very extensive almost surroura-
ed by the sea, and indented by its arms, it is no "aggeration to
say that, including its islands, the whole sea coast may be comput-
ed to be nearly one hundred and twenty miles.  The shores are
bold and rocky, presenting an iron bound appearance throughout


