
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

marvellous and improbable are so far from being objections,
that they rather appear to be natural for the times that
gave them birth, and necessary to give dignity and perma-
nancy to what they were intended to express.  It is for
this reason, that the names of places have been explained in
the most fanciful manner, and circumstances adduced in the
explication of them, that exceed every degree of probabi-
lity, and are evidently false.  The name before us, as ac-
counted for by some, is one of these.  According to them,
there was among the Danes who infested this country, a
man of extraordinary strength and stature, and that upon a
time, to show I suppose his extraordinary folly, he made a
remarkable leap from a hill in the neighbourhood of the
place where the church now stands, and that to this inci-
dent the hill itself and the parish are indebted for their
name.  But without examining into the merits of this story,
or regretting that it had not been more circumstantially
told, we need only observe, that the name is with much
more probability derived from an old and respectable fami-
ly in the parish, or from its hilly appearance Dun-lop or
Dun-luib, signifying, in Gaelic, "a winding or circuitous
hill;" and were we to credit the tradition, that the house of
Dunlop stood originally on the top of Dunlop-hill, we
might be led from this circumstance, and the appearance of
the ground about it, to suppose, that it might be called, in
the language of the times, the house on, or the house of the
winding hill, and that the family itself might afterward
assume that name, and give it to the parish.  The parish is
of an oblong figure, being about 7 English miles long, and
2 1/ broad.  It is bounded by the parishes of Neilston,
Stewartoun, and Beith.  From the first of these it is sepa-
rated in front by a small burn or brook on the E. from the
second in the same manner on the S. and from the last by
Lugton on the N.  This has its source in the parish of

</UNREADABLE>

     1


