
                           INVERNESS.	                       29

the poor having access to it and the other building gratis. It is
provided with an old and elegantly carved oak pulpit. The other
congregations in Inverness are, of Episcopalians about 150 mem-
bers; Seceders, 100; Independents,* including a few Baptists, 50;
Methodists, 50; Roman Catholics, 230. The ministers of some
of these congregations are paid by their flocks, and others are
understood to be partly assisted by societies in the south. In
1798, a Chapel of Ease was erected in connection with the Esta-
blished church, capable of containing 1100 sitters, the minister of
which is supported by his own congregation alone. The Established
clergy are three in number, the patronage to the first and third
livings being vested in the Crown,-that to the second in Mr Fraser
of Lovat, who also claims a vice-presentation of the first charge.
None of the ministers have manses, but the first and second re-
ceive a very trifling yearly sum, being the interest of the sums for
which the old manses with the gardens attached to them were sold
many years ago as ruinous, the Court of Session having decided,
after a long and expensive litigation, that the heritors were not
obliged to rebuild them. They also have each about four acres of
glebe land, which they set for gardens, and on parts of which the
tenants have erected many substantial houses. These yield at
present each about L. 80 a year. The stipends of the first and
second charges are 19 chalders of grain, with L. 10 for commu-
nion elements; and the stipend of the third minister, which is
partly paid from the holders of the old Bishop of Moray's rents, and
partly by Parliamentary grant, is L. 200, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for
communion elements. A parish catechist is employed, who is
paid from the collections at the church doors, the rest of which,
after paying beadles, &c. are appropriated to the poor, and for
whom also there are four special quarterly collections in the year.
The number of communicants in the two parish churches varies
from 800 to 900, and in the chapel of ease from 300 to 350.
   Education and Societies.-The local Bible Society here for se-
veral years collected an annual fund from L. 100 to L. 140, but
its meetings have been discontinued for some time. It has sup-
plied, on two occasions, every family in the parish with Bibles.
   Inverness Education Society.-In 1818, a society was institut-
ed under the name of the "Society for Educating the Poor in the

<FOOTNOTE>The occasional sitters in these Seceding, Independent, and Methodist chapels
augment considerably the usual attendance, the numbers stated being of those in full
communion with each congregation. The numbers of Episcopalians and Roman
Catholics given, include men, women, and children.


