
528                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

of foul and fair weather.  With a strong easterly wind, we often
see a sudden start 5/8 or 3/4 or of an inch, while a three days' tor-
rent of rain follows.  Again, a sudden fall with a north-west wind
often indicates a coming hurricane, as during the series of re-
markable high winds in spring 1837, when the barometer fell
27 8\10 inches without rain.
   The aurora borealis is very common, especially during the
winter months, and of great brilliancy.  Twice in the course of
the last five years, a beautiful luminous arch shot athwart the ze-
nith, at right angles with the magnetic meridian, irradiating the
heavens with a vivid light.  Towards the end of 1837, the polar
lights assumed a new appearance : the fitful dancing of the
streamers was exchanged for a deep red glare, resembling the
vivid reflection of an extensive moor-burning.  On the 25th of
January 1838, when the thermometer stood at 2deg;, the aurora was
unusually bright, and the hissing sound (about which so many
people are still sceptical) remarkably andible.
   Climate, Diseases, &c.-The elevation of the river Don, (ac-
cording to the authority already quoted,) at a point about two miles
above the church, and 47 from Aberdeen, is 950 feet above the
level of the sea, while at its source it is stated to be 1740 feet.
We, therefore, necessarily experience a keen atmosphere, but the
climate is, nevertheless, bracing and healthy; so much so, that
valetudinarians frequently come to reside in the strath during the
summer months for the benefit of the pure air, and it is believed
the influx would be greatly increased, were there more convenience
of lodging, &c.  The climate of the tipper or Corgarff district is
distinctly different, and much inferior to that of what may be
termed Strathdon proper.  The parish is liable to the most seri-
ous injury from spring and autumnal frosts especially the latter;
but the Corgarff district, in an, aggravated degree, suffers, from
this calamity.  Few harvests pass in which the crops are not par-
tially injured, but in many they are entirely ruined.  lt is true, for
the five years to 1836, frosted grain was almost unknown
in the parish, and fond hopes began to be entertained that a be-
neficial change for the better had taken place in the seasons, and
various sage theories were propounded satisfactorily to account for
the fact.  That  year however, the crop in the upper district was
almost totally lost, * and in the present crop, 1838,) there is not
one boll of safe seed in the parish.

<FOOTNOTE>It is a fact worth notice connected with this subject, that it is a universally re-


