
	134                      ROSS AND CROMARTY.

TABLE>
Pasture, at 15s. per cow per annum, 8000 head, L. 6000
  do.  at 3s. per ewe or sheep, do. 3000 do. L. 455, 10s.     L. 6455   10  0
Wheat, 20 quarters, at L. 1, 10s.                                  30    0  0
                                                                ____________
Total yearly value of raw produce,                             L.13,721 10  0


   Manufactures.--Mrs S. M'Kenzie attempted to instruct the
natives in straw-plaiting; and for that purpose brought two stran-
gers to the island, and gave them a salary, for a considerable time.
Several young girls were taught; but the work is discontinued at
present.  The Craggans, formerly mentioned, are made by the
natives.  The red clay is kneaded as smooth as glazier's putty,
the vessel is fashioned by one hand inside, the other on the out-
side, till it is brought to the size and shape required.  After hard-
ening in the sun for a time, a peat fire is kindled around it, till it
becomes red.  Warm milk is then poured into it, and as the milk
boils, the outside is bathed with it.  This gives it a polish or gloss.
If it does not crack, it is considered a good dish; and the boiled
milk is drunk by the potters.
   Kelp is the principal manufacture in the parish.  It is almost
impossible to tell how many are employed in the work,--for young
and old, male and female, all who are able to carry a creel of ware,
or help to fill it, are engaged in manufacturing it at different times,
for three months, from the time of cutting the ware till the solid
mass is weighed on board the vessel.  The price of kelp varies
from L. 1, 10s. to L. 3, 3s. per ton; at L. 3. 3s. per ton, the sum may
be as much as the man and wife in one family could earn in three
months, by any other work; but the toil in cutting, drying, burning
the ware, and watching the pot night and day, till the ware is convert-
ed to boiling lava, is terrible, and would require extraordinary wages.
This process, if not injurious to health, is ruinous to the eyes.  How
this manufacture affects their morals, farther experience will dis-
close.
   I add the following remarks upon the kelping system.  It is
true, that proprietors of land and kelp shores got a good round
sum for kelp, when the price was high,-nearly L. 20 clear profit
per ton; but they know from experience that this commodity is
very fluctuating in price, especially since barilla has been substi-
tuted for kelp.  The price of kelp is not now worth the trouble
of manufacturing it ; but had the ware burned and exported been
given to fields in culture, or put upon new tilled land, to stimulate
and feed it, the profits though not so large, would be annual, yea
perennial, and in the course of a nineteen years lease, the old
                               4



