
     of Cranston.

large wooden vessel, where it is condensed into an oil and
volatile spirit.  The distillation continues for the space of
4 1/2 days, when the residuum in the still makes excellent
tar.  The oil and spirit are then drawn off into a smaller
vessel, and as the oil swims on the top, a separation is ea-
sily made, by drawing off the spirit.  If the tar is boiled
in the still for 5 1/2 days, the stuff remaining in the still is
then called half pitch; and should the process be continued
a day longer, it would become as brittle as glass.  The
volatile spirit is distilled a second time before it is exposed
to sale, and afterwards made into hartshorn by the chymist.
A bright varnish is produced, by mixing one gallon of the
foresaid oil with six lb. rosin, and then boiling them toge-
ther; and a black varnish, by mixing and boiling together
4 lb. rosin, 1 gallon of the above oil, and 1 Scotch pint of
the half pitch.  The British tar is of a blacker colour, and
has a finer skin than common tar.  It contains no water
like the latter, and its quality is injured by any mixture
of lamp black, red and white lead, oil or tallow.  Vege-
table tar, containing an acid that corrodes iron, does not
answer as a preservative from rust; but this tar, possessing
no such corrosive quality, is found to be an effectual co-
vering for guns, shot, bolts, and all iron work.  Its prin-
cipal recommendation however is, that it is excellently a-
dapted for paying the bottoms of ships, and preserving
wooden work, that is exposed to the weather, or liable to
be worm-eaten.  It the half pitch cannot be readily pro-
cured, when required, the tar may be brought to that con-
sistence, by boiling it a sufficient time; to be ascertained
by dipping into it a chip of wood, which on cooling, will
show when the tar has acquired the proper degree.  The
tar and pitch must always be heated before they are ap-
plied.  On wooden work, first lay on the tar quite hot,
and then a coat of warm pitch.  Piles that are to be dri-


