
                         FINTRAY.                              167

chiefly of light early soil of good quality.  In the middle or ele-
vated district the soil is very much inferior, consisting partly of
peat-moss, and partly of moor, interspersed with considerable and
yearly increasing patches of arable land.  In the north district of
the parish, the soil is much better, and there are several well cul-
tivated farms.
   Live-Stock.-A great number of cattle (chiefly of the Aber-
deenshire breed) are reared and fed in this parish, many of which
grow to a very considerable size.  There are also some fine horses
reared.  Scarcely any sheep are reared; and few are fed, except
on the lawns of Fintray House and Disblair.
   Zoology.-Formerly the river Don abounded with salmon and
very fine-trout; but the cruives and dam-dikes, erected by manu-
facturing companies in the parishes of Old Machar and Newhills,
have almost ruined the fishings; and have given rise to many dis-
putes between the upper heritors and manufacturing companies.
Hares and partridges are in abundance; but no rare species of ani-
mals are found.
   Wood.-Upwards of 600 acres of the surface of the parish are
covered with wood, of various ages and kinds, and all in a thriv-
ing condition.

                      II-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Heritors.-The principal heritor of this parish is Sir John For-
bes, Bart. of Craigievar, who is patron of the parish, proprietor
of somewhat more than the half of it, and the only residing heri-
tor. The other heritors are, the Earl of Fife ; Mr Ramsay of
Barra; and the Rev. Dr Morison of Disblair,-who have lands of
considerable extent and value; also General Benjamin Forbes of
Balbitban; and William Gordon Cumming Skene, Esq. of Pit-
lurg and Dyce, who have small properties, in this parish.  The
rental of the parish is supposed to be nearly L. 5000 Sterling.
The valued rent is L.3007, 8s. 4d. Scots.
   Antiquities.-There are two cairns in the parish, but their ori-
gin is unknown.  The present minister when improving his glebe
dug up the foundations of some buildings, supposed to have be-
longed to the Abbacy of Lindores, in Fife; a branch of which is
said to have stood where the principal burying ground of this pa-
rish now is; in which burying ground, a vault of extraordinary
strength was built a few years ago by the parishioners, to se-
cure dead bodies from resurrectionists; from whence, after re-
maining perhaps three months or more - the bodies are removed


