
			  GLASGOW.			       111

manner to repair to the pillar till the sermon was ended, and then
to go out to the door again, and stand there till the congregation
pass from the kirk, and after that he is released."
	The presbytery admonished their ministers to be diligent in
their studies, grave in their apparel, and not vain with long ruffies,
and gaudy toys in their clothes. The brethren (Presbytery) inter-
pret" the Sabbath to be from sun to sun; no work to be done be-
tween light and light, in winter, and between sun and sun in sum-
mer." Subsequently, the brethren declared "the Sabbath to be from
twelve on Saturday night till twelve on Sabbath night." The session
directed that the drum should go through the town, to intimate that,
there must be no bickerings or plays on Sundays, either by old or
young. Games, golfs, bowls, &c. were forbidden on Sundays;
and further, that no person go to Ruglen to see plays on Sundays.
Parents who had bairns to be baptized were to repeat the Com-
mandments distinctly, articles of faith, and the Lord's Prayer, or be
declared hgnorant, and some godly person to present their bairn;
with farther punishment, as the kirk shall think fit. That no pro-
clamation of banns be made without the consent of parents; per-
sons who cannot say the commandments were declared to be un-
worthy of marriage. Because of the many inconveniences by mar-
riages on Sundays before noon," the session enact that none be
made till the afternoon."
	In 1588, the kirk-session appointed some ash-trees, in the Hie
Kirk yard to be cut down, to make forms for the folk to sit on in
the kirk; women were not to sit upon the forms, but to bring stools,
with them. Intimation was made, that "no woman, married or un-
married, should come within the kirk door to preachings or prayers
with their plaids about their heads, neither to lie down in the kirk
on their face in time of prayer; with certification, that their plaids
be drawn down, or they be raised by the beadle. The beadles
were to have staffs for keeping quietness in the kirk, and comely
order; for each marriage they were to get 4d., and 2d. for each
baptism. All this for ringing the bell and rowing up the knoch,
and for setting the forms in the Hie Kirk, and in the Blackfriars
Kirk, and also the New Kirk. The kirk beadles were to allow none
to enter the steeple to trouble the knock and bell there, but to
keep the knock going at all times, and the five hours bell in the morn-
ing, and eight hours bell at even, and that for a long space. The
minister save the  dead bellman a merk to buy a book, to enter
the names of the dead with their age."
	" On 26th December 1588, the magistrates, considering the


