
			PARISH OF HOUNAM

	PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

		THE REV. GEORGE RUTHERFORD, MINISTER.


		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
    Name, Boundaries, &c.-THIS parish appears to have formerly
had the names of Howenham and Hounham. Its more recent or-
thography is Hounam. The name applies to the village and to the
parish; but its precise origin cannot now be ascertained. The
syllable ham is understood to be from the Anglo-Saxon word,
signifying a mansion or dwelling-place; and it is believed that
Howen, * or Owen, is the name of some distinguished indivi-
dual, who is reported to have lived in this quarter about the twelfth
century.
    The parish forms an irregular figure of about 8 miles by 6 in
its extreme length and breadth; and, as regards its superficial
extent, is computed to contain about 22 1/2 square miles, or 14,458
acres. It might have been nearly of a circular form, had not one
point, of considerable extent, projected beyond the rest towards
the north-east. It is surrounded by the parishes of Morebattle,
Eckford, Jedburgb, and Oxnam in Scotland, and borders on the
opposite side with the county of Northumberland, where the top
of the Fells, a range of the Cheviot hills, is the march.
    Topographical Appearances.-The appearance of this parish
exhibits, in general, little else than an assemblage of hills, chief-
ly appropriated to pasture, and constituting a part of that ex-
tensive range generally known by the appellation of Cheviot. The
upper portion of the parish, towards the English border, is finely
diversified in respect of surface, exhibiting a pleasing variety of
waving elevations, and deep narrow dells, with intermediate romantic
little valleys, that lie embosomed amid the hills. Numerous rivulets
and brooks form a distinguishing feature in the scenery. There

<FOOTNOTE>Howen, the son of Bute, was a witness to the charter of Richard De Morville,
Lord High Constable-of Scotland, who died in 1189, A. D. Diplom. Scotia, pl. 75.
Howen is merely the Saxon aspirate of the Cambro-British Owen.-Chalm. Cal.
Vol. ii. p. 165.



