
			FODDERTY.                            245

	any day of the year on which it may be required.  At the bases
	there is an extensive peat-moss, part of which is very spongy and
	easily consumed, and a part hard and black ; than which, there is
	scarcely any fuel better fitted for keeping up a mild and gentle
	beat.
	  Knock-Farril, situated on the opposite or south side of the val-
	ley, is crowned with one of those vitrified forts which so puzzle and
	interest the antiquary.  It is one of the most beautiful and strikingly
        marked in the country.  Its form is conical, and the ascent
	on the side fronting the valley almost perpendicular.  The ruins
	on the top surround a plain of nearly an acre in extent, from which
	Craig-Phadric, near Inverness, and Dun-Skaith, on the northern
	Sutor of Cromarty, are distinctly seen.  Most of these hill-forts
	seem, in the first instance, to have been constructed by the aboriginal
        inhabitants, for the purpose of defending themselves
	from their enemies.  The vitrified appearance which some of
	them present, it is well known, has been the source of much
	controversy.  Mr Williams and Dr Anderson supposed that fire
	had been used for cementing the walls, by fusing the materials
	of which they were composed.  Mr Tytler (the late Lord
	Woodhouselee) was of opinion, that the vitrification resulted from
	the destruction of the buildings, of which we now see only the
	ruins.  There is a third view, which has been ably advocated by
	Sir George Stewart Mackenzie of Coul, Baronet, viz. that the vitrified
        appearance was caused by beacon-fires. " The following
	considerations," says he, " seem to support the idea of such high
	situations being chosen exclusively for signal stations.  Such hills
	only as command an extensive view of the sea or adjacent country
	have been selected.  There is a regular chain from Knock-Farril
	and Craig-Phadric along the great valley of Lochness to the west
	coast, and others are in sight towards the east, so that on the appearance
        of an enemy on either side of the island, the whole country
        from coast to coast could be informed, perhaps within the short
	space of an hour.  And such is the situation of vitrified forts exclusively;
        for they are not seen in any but commanding situations,
	while many spots, more convenient and better adapted in every respect
        for defence, are often to be found in their vicinity, or at no
	great distance."
	  The origin of beacons is of the highest antiquity.  They were
	used among the Jews and Greeks.  The Romans, too, were wont
	to lightup nocturnal signal fires; and latterly the ancient beal


