
124                          RENFREWSHIRE.

begun to bulge out from the eaves downwards, it was pronounced
by tradesmen to be in a very dangerous state; yet it was brought
down with greater difficulty than the eastern gable, which, accord-
ing to tradition, had been rebuilt towards the close of the seven-
teenth century.  Silver and copper coins of the reigns of William
and Mary, Henry IV. of France, &c. were found in the ruins, but
there was no appearance of their havin been deposited by design.
When the floors were lifted, an immense quantity of human bones
was found.  The area was literally paved with skulls.  The beams
of the roof were of solid oak, some of them perfectly fresh, and
with marks of having formerly belonged to a building of quite dif-
ferent dimensions,-thus confirming the current tradition, that, when
the palace of Inchinnan became ruinous, the beams which had sup-
ported its roof were partly transferred to the parish church, which
happened at the time to require repair.  It is believed that the
old church of the adjoining parish of Erskine was supplied in the
same way from the same source.  In the church-yard, all the old
tomb-stones, of which many remain, have crosses of different forms
sculptured upon them.  The parishioners point out what tradition
has taught them to call the Templars graves.  The stones cover-
ing them, now reduced to four in number, are not flat but ridged;
and upon their sloping sides. figures of swords may be distinctly
traced.  If ever there were stone coffins under them, it is long
since they have disappeared, and the graves themselves have been
appropriated from time immemorial to the use of the parishioners.
   Modern Buildings.-The only buildings of any architectural
pretensions are the church and bridge of Inchinnan.  The for-
mer is Gothic, with a massive square tower, buttresses, &c. and is
much admired.  The latter is an elegant structure, consisting of
two divisions, under one of which the Gryfe passes, while the other
is thrown across the White Cart.  It was erected at an expense of
L.17,000.  The house of Southbarr was, with the exception of
one wing, destroyed some years ago by accidental fire, and has not
yet been rebuilt.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
          In 1755, the population amounted to 397
             1791,	.	.	.     306
             1801,	.	.	.     462
             1811,	.	.	.     641
             1821,	.	.	.     582
             1831,	.	.	.     620

   The diminution of the population between 1755 and 1791, is
to be accounted for, partly by the removal of a distillery, and


