
				CAERLAVEROCK.                  353

but they are only registered when the interment takes place in the
parish churchyard. No distinction in the register having been
made as to marriages, where the parties settled in the parish, and
those where one of the parties left the place and took up a residence
in another,--no satisfactory return as to marriages can be made.
	Character of the People.--The moral character of the people is
decidedly good, partly owing to our abundant supply of schools, by
which the benefits of education are extended to all, the children of
the poor being taught gratis; and partly to the want of alehouses,
of which there is not one in the parish except at the shore,
where, on account of the shipping, it seems indispensable. Poach-
ing was, at one time, extensively practised in the parish, though not
much by the inhabitants. Now that game is all but absolutely
extirpated, poaching of course has ceased. Smuggling also existed
to a very great extent about fifty years ago,--now it is unknown.
				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The following information has been kindly com-
municated by the factor of the principal proprietor and three of
the most intelligent farmers.
	The total number of acres, Scotch measure, is 4640.  Mr
Maxwell's property consists of 3972 acres, which is let at L. 3930,
10s. so that L. 41, 1Os. are wanting to make the rent L. 1 per
acre. Judging of the rest of the parish by this estimate, the rent
may be stated at L. 1 per acre to a fraction.

<TABLE>
                                                        Imperial acres.
                                                         A.    R.    F.
Of the whole parish there are in wood,                  126    0    18
                                 moss and moor,          75    2    27
                                 meadow,                 37    3    13
                                 marsh,                 252    0    37
Number of acres arable,                                5323    0    13
	A considerable quantity of ground was some  years ago planted
on Conheath, by J. Connel, Esq. and the plantations are now
thriving and remunerative; but it does not appear that trees ge-
nerally attain to a great size in this parish, unless in extensive
plantations, or on spots peculiarly sheltered.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land in the parish may be
stated at L. 1 per acre.
	Live-stock.--The Galloway breed of cattle is the favourite one,
and only a few Ayrshire cows are kept. The Leicester breed of
sheep is the one chiefly attended to, the enclosures not being suffi-
ciently strong for the wild black-faced or Highland variety.


