
396                            AYRSHIRE.

make one feel astonished that they do not lose their balance. They
seem, indeed, as if they had been placed in their present position
by the nicest efforts of art.

		         II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	There are no historical events of importance to be mentioned in
connection with this parish; nor has it given birth to any who have
been particularly distinguished in public life, with the exception,
perhaps, of the well-known cousins, Robert and Zachary Boyd, who,
a somewhat uncertain tradition says, were born in the house of
Trochrigg, of which Robert was doubtless a member. In later times,
a few highly respectable clergymen have been born, and received
the rudiments of their education, in the parish.
	Land-owners.--The whole of the parish is in the possession of
ten proprietors. The Duchess de Coigney holds nearly the half;
the other principal proprietors are, Mr Kennedy of Dunure, Mr
Craufurd of Ardmillan, and Mr Fergusson of Trochrigg, the
Marquis of Ailsa, Sir John Cathcart of Carleton, Mr Boyd of
Penkil, Mr Hamilton of Pinmore, Mr Onslow of Balkissock, and
Mr Johnstone of Trolorg, are the other proprietors.
	Parochi`l Registers.--The parochial registers commence in
1733, since which period a pretty regular account of births has
been kept,--but of marriages and deaths, the account was very im-
perfectly kept, down to the year 1825, when a correct record of
marriages commenced; but a record of deaths is still wanting.
	Antiquities.--There is but little here to attract the notice of the
antiquarian. Five of those round enclosures, commonly called
camps, can still be distinctly traced. Two of them are very near
the sea, and none of them more than two miles and a-half from it.
One of them is remarkable for having two parallel ditches, which
surround the top of the hill on which it is situated. Formerly
there were a number of cairns in the high part of the parish, but
these have been almost wholly demolished for the purpose of making
fences. On removing one of them, there was found, in a kind of
coffin, formed of broad thin stones, an earthen urn, unglazed, and
rudely ornamented. It held about the quantity of two English
pints, and contained a small portion of something like ashes.

<TABLE=Population>
	                 III.--POPULATION.

		      In 1801, the population was               2260
		         1811,		                        3097
	                 1821,		                        4490
	                 1831,		                        6430
	Number of families in the parish,	                	1290
	        	chiefly employed in agriculture,		 134
		                    in trade and manufactures,   912


