
                          DRUMMELZIER.                       73

                       II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

   Accounts of the Parish.--In Dr Pennecuik's History of Tweed-
dale there are several notices of the parish of Drummelzier.  There
is also something on the same subject in the very accurate and
particular agricultural survey of the County of Peebles by the Rev.
Mr Findlater.
   Land-owners.--The land-owners are, Sir John M. Nasmyth,
Bart. proprietor of Dawick ;  Sir James Montgomery, Bart. pro-
prietor of Stanhope ;  Andrew White, Esq. proprietor of Drummel-
zier ;  the Rev. John T. Beresford, proprietor of Kingledoors ;  and
Colonel Hunter, proprietor of Polmood.
   Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers begin 1649, and
have been regularly kept ever since, except from the year 1683
to 1689, during which period the minister was ejected for non-
conformity ;  except also from 1694 to 1700, and from 1702 to
1705, in which intervals there were vacancies in the incumbency
of the parish ;  and during vacancies the registrations seem to
have been altogether neglected.
   Antiquities.--There are traces of a road along the top of the
mountain Scrape, understood to have been Roman, and which pro-
bably connected the camp at Lyne with the great road which ran
from Carlisle towards Falkirk.  There also the remains of two
old castles, the one called Tinnes Castle, supposed to be a cor-
ruption of Thanes.  It is of so great antiquity that there is no
tradition either of its erection or destruction.  The walls are two
Scots ells thick, and the cement as hard as the stone.  The other
is called Drummelzier Place, evidently more modern.  It was the
residence of the Tweedies of Drummelzier, the last of whom died
in 1617.
                        III.--POPULATION.
   It is impossible to discover the state of the population further
back than Dr Webster's Account, 1755.  But in as far as calcu-
lation can be founded on the register of baptisms, the population
does not differ materially betwixt 1649 and 1755.
   It has been gradually decreasing ever since that time, from the
increasing wealth of the country, which puts it in power of indi-
viduals to take much larger farms than they were formerly able to
do.  The cottages also are allowed greatly to go to decay.  This
seems bad policy, as the cottages supply the farmers with labour-
ers :  and the servants whose parents reside in the neighbourhood
are generally most trust-worthy.


