
     of Callander.

to one another in size and shape, as there are persons in the
company.  They daub one of these portions all over with
charcoal, until it be perfecly black.  They put all the bits of
the cake into a bonnet.  Every one, blindfold, draws out a
portion.  He who holds the bonnet, is entitled to the last bit.
Whoever draws the black bit, is the devoted person who is
to be sacrificed to Baal*, whose favour they mean to implore, in
rendering the year productive of the sustenance of man and
beast.  There is little doubt of these inhuman sacrifices hav-
ing been once offered in this country, as well as in the east,
although they now pass from the act of sacrificing, and only
compel the devoted person to leap three times through the
flames; with which the ceremonies of this festival are closed.
The other custom is, that on All-Saints Even, they set up
bonfires in every village.  When the bonfire is consumed, the
ashes are carefully collected in the form of a circle.  There is
a stone put in, near the circumference, for every person of the
several families interested in the bonfire; and whatever stone is

<FOOTNOTE>

*Bal-tein signifies the fire of Baal.  Baal, or Ball, is the only word in Gaelic
for a globe.  This festival was probably in honour of the sun, whose return, in his
apparent annual course, they celebrated, on account of his having such a visible
influence, by his genial warmth, on the productions of the earth.  That the Ca-
ledonians paid a superstitious respect to the sun, as was the practice among
many other nations, is evident, not only by the sacrifice at Baltein, but upon
many other occasions.  When a Highlander goes to bathe, or to drink waters
out of a consecrated fountain, he must always approach by going round the
place, from east to west on the south side, in imitation of the apparent diurnal
motion of the sun.  When the dead are laid in the earth, the grave is approach-
ed by going round in the same manner.  The bride is conducted to her future
spouse, in the presence of the minister, and the glass goes round a company, in
the course of the sun.  This is called, in Gaelic, going round the right, or the
lucky way.  The opposite course is the wrong, or the unlucky way.  And if a
person's meat or drink were to affect the wind-pipe, or come against his breath
they instantly cry out deisheal!  which is an ejaculation praying that it may go
by the right way.


