
222                       BANFFSHIRE.

uniform bend of trees in exposed situations. The parish appears
to be favoured in respect of the health and longevity of its inha-
bitants.\f* There have died since 1832, one person above 100, and
four or five above 90. There is now living a woman in her 100th
year. A more decisive test is to be found in the proportion of
persons above 70 years of age. The average over Scotland shews
about one in 36 who have passed this age. Here the proportion
is about one in 19.\f+
   Hydrography.-Tbere are no remarkable springs in the parish
except common chalybeate, to which description belongs a well
at the eastern boundary, much frequented in summer by persons
from the inland districts, with all ranks of whom it is very custom-
ary to spend one or two weeks annually at the sea side.
   Soil, &c.-A portion of the soil, chiefly on the lands of Boindie
and Dallacby, on the eastern part of the parish, is a black sandy
mould, of a considerable depth, with an open subsoil, fertile
and early. The soil of Reattie, Baldavie, and Raggal, in the
middle of the parish, is chiefly clay and clay loam, part of it highly
productive. But the larger part of the parish, including a pro-
portion of the lands specified, is a rather light soil, incumbent on
a close subsoil, and is of inferior productiveness.
   The direction of the strata is north by east. They have been
subjected to disturbance of so violent and irregular a nature, that
it is impossible to assign any particular direction to the dip. The
prevailing rock in the eastern district is believed to be greywacke,
which alternates frequently with a micaceous clay slate. Among
these there occur frequent veins of quartz, the upheaving of which
may be supposed to have acted as a disturbing force to the strata.
To the west ofthe greywacke, hornblende rock, much of it assum-
ing a slaty character, occupies the sea coast for upwards of a mile,
and appears in various places upwards of a mile inland to the south.
Numerous and large boulders of the same rock are found scatter-
ed along the coast, and prevailing in a south and south-west direc-

<FOOTNOTE>It is worthy of being recorded that this parish, in common with a large part of
the north-east coast of Scotland, was exempted from the scourge of cholera. During
the first fortnight oftbe year 1837, however, we were subjected to an epidemic, which
if the number affected by it be taken into account, was only less serious than the Asia-
tic scourge. This was the influenza, which scarcely a single family, and few indivi-
duals here escaped. It was attended by fever, pain in the bones, often violent affec-
tion of the head, severe cough, and stifling, and great prostration of strength. Within
the short period mentioned above, eleven persons, most of them old or infirm, were
cut off out of this limited population, and the constitutions of many received a shock
by wbich their lives will have been shortened.
         The proportion in the sea-faring population is 1 in 19.5; in the agricultural do.,
1 in 19.3; a striking proof of the operation of a law.


