
352                     RENFREWSHIRE.

the moss is capable of being improved. There are great facilities
to this from the ready means of external communication, and the
abtindanteotnm'andofinaDure,lirne,andcoal. Butlimeormanure
are of no use till the M' osses are drained and levelled, and cleared of
bent. Thelime,totheamountofeigbtorninecbaldersperacre,will,
after two or three years rest, call its productive powers into action -
and, by judicious management and cropping, the improver will
not onlv have the delightful feeling of making a new creation to
sprino, up on his property, but of adding to his wealth, and en-
creasing the comforts and happiness of the labouring classes.
The success of Colonel -Fulton, (though there wdre no other
example in the parish,) is anirnating and encouraging to the rest
of the heritors, who have Lbundance of moss to cultivate, which is
as susceptible of improvement as either Colonel Fulton's, or Mr
Gmharn's bills of Fereneze. A word to the wise is enough. Let
those w,o are fearful of the expense, and the doubtfialness of an
atnple re ' turn for their outlay, poiider well the following extract,
taken from the Ayrshire Agricultural Report, drawn by that ta-
lented and skilful improver, William Aiton, Esq. late of Strathaven.
11 If," says he, 11 the noble families of Loudon and Dumfries,
and other proprietors of the soil, would pay attention to that spe-
cies of improvement-bent-moss-in any degree suitable to its im-
portance, their revenues might be greatly augmented, the industry
of their tenants amply rewarded,-and the food of man, from these
,quarters, greatly multiplied. 1 know no way in which so great a
return can be obtained with so little advance, and so great eer-
tainty, as in the improvement of the bent-moss. When purchases
of land are made,, the proprietors is contented with a return of 3i
or 4 per cenl of the price be has paid; but by a 'udicious and
well-cooducted improvement of bent-moss, 20, 50, and in many
instances 100 per cent. per aniium, may be obtained forall the
money advanced on that species ofimprovement,--a profit so gre`t,
the satisfaction of enlarging their own estates, and increasing their
rent-roll, without diminishing that of any other person; exciting
industry among their tenantry; multiplying the food of man, and
the resources of the nation ; will, I sincerely hope, rotise all who
have bent-moss on their estates, instantly to set about the reclaim-
ing of it. It is by far the most profitable, and at the same time
the most patriotic species of improvement that can be pursued.'

 March 1837.


