
                  BURNTISLAND.                             407

occurs at the third quarry to the north, on the side of the road
leading to Kirkealdy. Between these quarries and the Lochies, is
a mass of greenstone with slate-clay, very much hardened, and re-
sembling porcelain jasper.
  The strata of sandstone, shale, and limestone, contain fossil
remains of ferns, also specimens of the fossil genera Stigmaria,
Sigillaria, l,epidodendron, Lopidophyllum, Lepidostrobus and Ly-
copodites. In the bituminous shale and limestone, teetb, bones,
scales, and copi-olite, of fishes, also entire fossilized fishes occur.
Professor Jameson pointed out these remains to his pupils many
years ago during his geological excursions. Lately, on opening
up a new bed of coal limestone, in the limestone quarries of Burdle
House, on the south side of the Fortb, so long celebrated for tbeit-
fossil platits, remains of fishes were discovered. In our Btirntisland
quarries several of the Burdic I-louse fossil fishes have been met
with, besides others unknown there, such as the Pyopteris Jame-
soni, and the P. elegans of Agassiz.*
  The first ridge, mentioned in the account of the topographical
appearances as rising from the sea, consists of greenstone dipping
to the north. Sandstone occupies the hollow in which the town
stands. 'I'be second ridge is also of greenstone, atid the hollow
beyond is filled with -sandstone. The third ridge consists of the
same material with the two already mentioned ; and in the flat
track to the northward, are found sandstone, slate-clay, bituminous
shale, and limestone. The Bin, which is the highest part of the
succeeding ridge, consists of trap tuffa, and appears to have risen
throuo,h limestone, sandstone, clay-ironstone, slate-clay, and bitu-
minous shale. The minerals found here are natrolite, zeolite,
amethyst, chalcedony, agates, &e. The eminences to the north-
ward consist of greenstone, basalt, trap tuffa, &e. Basalt oc-
curs in abundance at DunearD Hill, along the north side of which
it assumes very distinctly' the columnar form. On the summit is
a small loch which never dries. This has been supposed to be the
crater of an extinct volcano; and, indeed, throughout the district
traces of igneous action are of frequent occurrence. On Orrock
hill, there is a beautiful display of basaltic columns. The west
side of this hill is bare and stee - , and is covered at the bottom

<FOOTNOTE>

In the College Museum of Edinburgh, there is a collection of the Burntielan
fossil fishes. We are particular in mentioning this circumstance, because the lim-
Stone quarries that afforded the, fossil fishes are now no longer worked, and it is only
rarely that specimens are to be picked amongst the rubbish in the old quarries.

