
902                         SUPPLEMENT TO THE

ceedings and speeches at these meetings, the Association has print-
ed pamphlets, lectures, and tracts, to the extent of 85,000.  Two
courses of lectures were delivered at their request in successive years,
1836 and 1837, by some of the ministers of Glasgow, and have been
subsequently published.  The attendance at these lectures was
large, while the audience manifested the deepest interest; and
since their publication, they have been extensively sold and widely
circulated. *
   In connection with the labours of the Protestant Association,
the results of an important inquiry as to the number of Roman
Catholics within the bounds of the Presbytery may be mentioned.
In the article Glasgow, Dr Cleland states the number of Roman
Catholics in the city at 26,965.  This was for the year 1831.  In
a paper given in to the British Association for the advancement
of Science in 1836, he states the number at 46,2,38.  Both
numbers are founded not upon actital enumeration, but upon a
codjectural estimate by the Roman Catholic priests, from the
number of their baptisms.  The Presbytery appointed a commit-
tee of inquiry, and from returns communicated to them, not only
by the parochial ministers of the city, but all the parochial minis-
ters of the Presbytery, and these founded on actual enumeration,
with a view to the investigations of the Royal Commission on Re-
ligious Instruction, it appears that the whole number of Roman
Catholics within the bounds of the Presbytery amounts only to
19,484.  Allowing for two small districts unreported, it may be safe-
ly said that, in a population of 270,000, the Roman Catholic popu-
lation does note xceed 2O,OOO.  This is a very important result, as
to the accuracy of which there can be no question.  It is remarkably

<FOOTNOTE>
    * The following, is a list of the publications of the Protestant Association:
   No. I. The Theology of Peter Dens, with all its immoral and persecuting prin-
ciples, proved to be the text-book of the present Roman Catholic Priesthood of Ire-
land; by the Rev. J. G. Lorimer, minister of St David's Parish.
   No. II. Ireland--Popery and Priestcraft, the cause of her misery and crime; by
J. C. Colquhoun, Esq. of Killermont.
   No. III. Popery Ireland, a Persecutor, or the Theology of Peter Dens illus-
trated by examples; by the Rev. John G, Lorimer of St David's, Parish.
   No. IV. Popery  unchanged--the creed of Pope Pius IV, still the creed of tbe
Church of Rome; by the Rev. James Henderson, D.D., of St Enoch's Parish.
   No. V. The Dangerous Nature of Popery,--the substance of a speech; by the
Rev. N. Paterson, D.D., of St Andrew's Parish.
   No. VI. Ireland,-- the Policy of reducing the Established church, and paying
the Roman Catholic Priests; by J. C. Colquhoun, Esq. of Killermont.
Maynooth College; by J. C. Colquhoun, Esq. of
   No. VII. On the Grant to Maynooth  College; by J.C. Colquhoun, Esq. of
Killermont.
   The service of Mr. Colquhoun in this cause have been of the most able, enlight-
ened, and disinterested character.


