
     Statistical Account

there is a scarcity of dung here, yet we are well supplied
with coal and lime, and in some places with moss and turf
for compost.  And the land is of such a quality, that it does
not of itself (like a weak or sandy soil), soon exhaust what
is imparted to it.-Though we are so nigh public works as to
insure the sale of every commodity, we are separated at such
a distance from them, as to be less in danger of having the
younger people corrupted by them, in their morals and prin-
ciples*.

   Character.-The character of the people, in general, is
very respectable; and it is much to their honour, that, after

<FOOTNOTE>

*The utility of the following regulations has been sensibly felt by the inha-
bitants here. 1.  Disputes having often arisen with regard to particular burying
grounds, a plan of the whole kirk-yard was lately formed (in which different
layers, after a public advertisement, were accurately ascertained, by marking and
describing every man's property, in regular order, upon it, with his name and
number, beginning at a certain corner of the kirk-yard), which was lodged, with
a corresponding catalogue, in the hands of the parish-clerk, to which every person
may now have recourse, when occasion requires. 2.  The inconvenience and loss
by acts of theft, etc. which many sustain by encouraging the vagrant poor of
other parishes, we have endeavoured to prevent here, not only by making liberal
provision for the poor of this parish, and restraining them from strolling, under
the penalty of a forfeiture of their allowance; but also by following out stric-
ly the rule of St. Paul, "If any would not work, neither should he eat."
(2 Thess. iii. 10.) and the laws of our country with respect to idle vagrants.
(See Lord Kaime's Abridgement). 3.  Many orchards upon the Clyde having of
late been much injured, by some malicious persons, the gentlemen here have con-
tributed liberally towards the establishment of a fund, for prosecuting according
to law, and bringing to deserved punishment, such atrocious offenders in future;
and it is found to have a very good effect. 4.  As in many places, children at
school suffer much, even under the care and attention of the most able and faith-
ful teachers, from the scholars being more numerous than any one man can pos-
sibly do justice to, the heritors of this parish have resolved to obviate, in some
degree, this inconvenience by the following provision:  Should the number of
scholars at any time amount to more than 50, the parish schoolmaster is obliged
to employ an assistant for the benefit of his lower classes.  This assistant he ge-
nerally chooses from among the more advanced of his scholars. 


