
150                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

tion of British observers. The following notice of the geology of
these islands is all we can spare room for:
   1. Eigg.-Is composed of those newer secondary strata of sand-
stone, limestone, and slate-clay, named lias, and of various trap
and pitchstone rocks. The sandstone, which is generally white, is
composed of grains of quartz held together by a basis of marl.
Often it exhibits the globular structure first observed in sandstone
rocks by Professor Jameson. The limestone is grey, with a com-
pact fracture, and contains various organic remains, such as am-
monites, belemnites, gryphytes, &c. The slate clay, which has the
usual characters of that substance, contains various organic remains.
Fossil plants, still retaining their woody structure, occur in it.
   The trap rocks, which form so considerable a portion of this
island, are of the species known under the names greenstone, amyg-
daloid, wacke, and tuffa. These rocks contain in cavities and
small veins various beautiful minerals, such as stilbite, mesotype,
analcime, calcareous spar, quartz crystals, and calcedony. The
pitchstone rocks are pitchstone, properly so called, and pitchstone
porphyry. The pitchstone, which is of various colours, as black,
green, blue, sometimes contains mineral oil. This oil, which is
the colouring matter of some of the varieties of the pitchstone, oc-
curs also in cavities of the rock. The pitchstone prophyry contains
in a base of pitchstone crystals of glassy felspar. The rock of the
Scuir exhibits one of the most splendid displays of the columnar ar-
rangement hitherto discovered in this or in any other country. Pro-
fessor Jameson, who first made known this splendid scene in his
"Mineralogy of the Western Islands," has the following remarks:
"We now ascended from this point to the Scuir Eigg, which we
have before observed to be the highest part of the island. This
hill, from its peculiar shape, has at a distance a singular appear-
ance; but as we approach nearer, it rises much in grandeur, and
at length a stupendous columnar promontory bursts on our view.
The whole of this promontory is perfectly mural, and extends for
upwards of a mile and a-half, and rises to a height if several hun-
dred feet. It is entirely columnar, and the columns rise in suc-
cessive ranges until they  reach the summit, where, from their great
height, they appear, when viewed from below, diminutive. Staffa
is an object of the greatest beauty and regularity; the pillars are
as distinct as if they had been reared by the hand of art; but
it has not the extent or sublimity of the Scuir Eigg. The one may
be compared with the greatest exertions of human power; the

                              4



