
316                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

the extent of surface may be stated at 42 square miles.  It lies
about half-way between Aberdeen and Banff, and the public road
between these two places passes through the breadth of it for se-
veral miles.  It is bounded on the east, by the parishes of Methlick
and Tarves; on the south, by Meldrum and Daviot; on the west,
by Rayne and Auchteless; and on the north, by Turriff and
Montquhitter.
   Topographical Appearances.-There are no mountain ranges in
this parish; smaller hills rise up in different parts of it, and in ge-
neral there is a very pleasing variety of surface.  The hill of Eas-
tertown, towards the south boundary, is the principal elevation.  It
is connected with, and may be considered a continuation of the
ridge of the hill of Bethelnie, in the adjoining parish of Meldrum,
which is said to be the highest land over which the turnpike road
passes between Edinburgh and Inverness.  In the neighbourhood of
the hamlet of Woodhead, there is a district which goes by the name
of the "Windy Hills;" a small ridge of hill, along the bottom of
which on the north there is a tract of moss, and some patches of
moss also on the south side.  The ground in this quarter bears
marks of having been for a long period under water.  Beds of quartz
similar to those found along the sea shore lie in every direction.
The substratum of the hill consists of decomposed sandstone.
No organic remains, however, so far as I have heard, have been
found in the locality.
   Soil, Climate, Diseases, &c.-There is great variety both of soil
and climate in this parish.  Along the banks of the Ythan, and
more particularly in what is called the Howe of Fyvie, where
the parish church and Fyvie Castle are situated, the soil is early
and fertile.  A substratum of gravel runs along the whole vale, co-
vered in most places with a sharp rich loam.  The climate here
also is very mild, and the harvest about a week earlier than in the
country generally in this quarter.  In the north district of the pa-
rish there are large tracts of moss.  Here the climate is colder,
and the soil in general poorer than in the middle and southern
parts, and the crops used frequently to suffer a good deal from
frosts; but, from judicious drainage and the selection of early seeds,
much less damage has been sustained in this way than formerly
was the case.  The north-east is the quarter from which we have
most frequent storms.  In general, the air of the parish is pure
and healthy; and I am not aware of any disease to which it is pe-
culiarly liable.  By a table which I have subjoined under the head


