
                  WISTON AND ROBERTON.                                99

ing different dissenting chapels, particularly the Relief one already
mentioned.  There are 766 persons of all ages belonging to the
Establishment, and I83 of all ages belonging to dissenterism.
There are 405 in communion with the church of Scotland, and
102 in communion with dissenting bodies.
   Education.-There are three schools in the parish, two paro-
chial and one private and unendowed.  The branches generally
taught are, English, writing, arithmetic, and occasionally Latin.
The salary of the schoolmaster of Wiston is L.25, 13s. 3d., that
of the schoolmaster of Roberton, L.30.  The fees in the school
of Wiston are, English, 2s., English and writing, 2s. 6d., English,
writing, and aritlimetic, 3s., English, writing, arithmetic, and Latin,
4s. per quarter.  In the school of Roberton the fees are, English, Is.
6d. English and writing, 2s. 6d. English, writing, and arithmetic, 3s.'
6d. per quarter.  At the annual examination in March, there were
attending the parochial school of Wiston, 64; the parochial school
of Roberton, 56; and the private school in Roberton 32.  Both
parochial teachers have the full legal accommodation.  In no-
thing, perhaps, has there been such a decided improvement of
late years, as in the system of parochial teaching; and in no parish
with which I am acquainted are the people more alive to the bene-
fits of education, nor do they evince a keener interest in the subject.
This is apparent from the fact, that in the poorest hamlets in the
most distant parts in the parish, you will not find a child six years
of age who has not been at school, as well as from the great turn
out of parents on the day of annual examination,'and the eager-
ness with which they listen to the proceedings.
   Libraries.-There are two public libraries in the parish, one a
subscription library, consisting of books of every description, the
other a Sabbath school library, consisting exclusively of religious
works, but not limited in its circulation to the children attending
the school.  Both are well supported.
   Friendly Society.-A friendly society was instituted a consider-
able time ago, though in what year it is impossible to say, as the
original books have been lost.  The earliest record in the pos-
session of the society bears the date of 1782.  We regret to add,
that it is not quite so flourishing as it once was; and we can ascribe
its decline (temporary we hope) to no circumstance, so much as
to the almost general extinction of that spirit of honest independ-
ence by which the inhabitants of Scotland were at one time so
remarkably and honourably, distinguished; nor can we think of
any thing more likely to revive the prosperity of the society, than
 

