
                        KILSYTH.

nate laird, after the failure of the chevalier's enterprize, fled
into Flanders, whence he never returned, unless, as is said, in
disguise.*
  Revivals.-The most interesting event in the religious history of
this parish is the Revival of Religion, which took place in the years
1742 and 1743, under the ministry of the Rev. James Robe, A.M.
and of which he gives a full and authentic account in his "Narra-
tive." The notice of this event in the former Statistical Account
is very full, and, upon the whole judicious. The writer of this
has examined the subject as impartially and fully as he could, and
must agree in the views expressed in that article, and also in the
observation s made regarding it by the late celebrated Sir H. Mon-
creiff, in his Life of Dr John Erskine.+

<FOOTNOTE>* Jean, daughter of William, Lord Cochran, son and heir of William Earl of Dun-
donald, married first to John Viscount of Dundee, then to the Viscount of Kilsyth,
was, with her infant son, smothered or killed in Holland, (1717), by the falling of a
roof, either by accident or design,-only two of the whole company escaping, by being
seated in a window. (See Dalrymple's Memoirs.) The wound which Lady Kilsyth
received was on the right temple. The child seems to have been smothered in the
arms of its mother. The bodies were sent over to Scotland, after being embalm-
ed, and were committed to the family vault, in this parish. The space betwixt the
leaden and the wooden coffin was filled with a white matter, of the consistency of
putty, but of a rich aromatic odour. A few weeks previous to the drawing up of
last Statistical Account, some visitors of the vault, students from Glasgow, (the writer
of this has a lively remembrance of the scene,) upon lifting the leaden covering, after
removing a board offer, to their great surprise, found the bodies of Lady Kilsyth and her
child as entire as at the hour they were entombed. "Every feature," writes Dr Ren-
nie," and every limb is as full-nay, the very shroud is as clean and fresh, and the
ribbons as bright as the day they were lodged in the tomb. The body of her son and
only child, the natural heir of the title and estate of Kilsyth, lies at her knee. His
features are as composed as if he was only asleep, his colour as fresh, and his flesh
as full as if in the perfect glow of health. He seems to have been an infant of three
months old. The body of Lady Kilsyth is equally well preserved, and it would not
be easy for a stranger to distinguish with his eye, whether she is dead or alive, &c."
(Statistcal Account.) The coffin was soon close, and the access to the tomb shut.
The bodies soon mouldered away,-showing the vanity of all attempts to arrest the
tendency of dust to dust.
  In Dr Rennie's account the wound is said to be quite visible in the right
temple. A sketch in the writer's possession marks it as on the right cheek. Of this
discrepancy, he can give no explanation. A parishioner, who has a distinct recollection
of seeing the body, says the wound was quite visible on the right temple, and does
not recollect any mark on the cheek.
  William, third and last Viscount Kilsyth was attainted after the Rebellion
in 1715. The Lady Kilsyth, whose body was found in the church, was his first wife.
He was afterwards married to Miss M'Dougal of Macherston, and died at Rome
1733.-See Douglas's Peerage.
  + At the end of the record, ending March 19, 1751, we find the following notice:
"The minister read unto them the names of above an hundred persons who were
most of them brought under notour spiritual concern in the years 1742 and 1743, and
concerning whom he had ground to entertain good hopes. The under subseriling
members of the session, elders, and deacons, hereby testify and declare, that all of
them who are now alive have been, from year to year, admitted by the kirk session
to the Lord's table since their first admission, either in these fore-mentioned years,
or since; and in as far as is known to them, they have had the their conversation such
as becometh the Gospel; as also, that four or five of the said list, who are now re-
moved by death, behaved, until their said removal, as became good Christians. The


