
                 ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                   939

earth.  This is of two kinds.  The one is generally of a mo-
derate thickness, composed of decayed vegetables produced by a
cold watery soil and damp atmosphere.  " As those vegetables,"
says Naismith, " which are nourished by a genial heat and kindly
soil, are quickly susceptible of the putrid fermentation, and, in
rotting, fall into loam, so those that thrive in cold moisture have
something in their nature which, in a great measure, preserves
their form and bulk even in decay; and by the growth of one year
above another through the lapse of time, in a neglected country,
they accumulate into beds of this inflammable earth.  Almost all
the tribe of mosses (Musci), and some other aquatic plants are
of this nature.  When those beds lie on low ground, where water
can carry particles of heavy earth upon them, they are thus ren-
dered less porous, and produce a considerable quantity of grass;
when they are on the rising grounds, heath and deer-hair (Scirpus
caespitosus) are the chief productions."  The other kind lies ge-
nerally in plains or hollows above the eminences, and is of
considerable depth.  All of these have in former times been the
site of large forests; some of the trees of which having fallen down
across the water-course, and interrupted whatever was brought along
by the stream, first formed dams, and finally converted the whole
into a standing pool.  As the standing water prevailed over the roots
of the trees, they would die, one after another, till the whole forest
was laid prostrate.  Mosses and a variety of aquatic herbage have
grown over these from age to age, till they have extended to great
masses of spongy matter, called Flow-mosses.  These are much
more extensive in that district than mosses of the former descrip-
tion; and as the abundance of coals renders peats of little request
as fuel, these flow-mosses, which produce but little esculent herb-
age, are of scarcely any value.  The highest ridge on the eastern
side of Clyde runs along the eastern extremity of Cambusnethan,
through the middle of Bertram Shotts, and then through East
Monkland, declining a little as it proceeds westwards.  In these
three parishes, particularly in Shotts, lies the greatest part of the
mosses on this side of the river.  Of the rest of the soil along this
ridge, a great part is moorish, coarse, and wet.  Along the Cal-
der, however, which divides Cambusnethan from Shotts, there is,
on both sides of that stream, a track of good soil.  Near its course
the land is light, sandy, or gravelly, and pretty dry; farther down
it becomes a strong clay.  The ridge on the opposite side, begin-
ning in the parish of Avondale, is a continuation of the hilly range


