
		   NORTH KNAPDALE.                        643

of age unable to read; above fifteen, there are 113 who cannot
read or write.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
receiving regular aid is 42. The sums allowed to each vary
from l0s. to L. 2, 5s. per annum. Besides those admitted
on the poor's roll, there are other persons to whom occasional aid,
during sickness or distress, is administered. The annual amount
of collections, from the year 1837, to 1843, averages L.20, 6s. ; and
the deficiency during the above period has been supplied by the
voluntary contributions of the heritors, who cheerfully concur in
every measure calculated to increase the comfort, and improve-
ment of the ponr in the parish. It is with regret the writer ob-
serves that the old Scottish spirit of independence, inducing a re-
luctance to ask relief from the parish, is fast giving way in this
part of the country.
  Inns and Alehouses.--There are six of these, of which at least
two might, with advantage, be abolished.
  Fuel.--The fuel chiefly used is peats, procured at a very great
expense from mosses, in some places two or three miles distant.
Wood is also not unfrequently used for fuel by the poorer classes;
but coals, which can be procured from 12s. 6d. to 13s. 6d. a ton,
are now generally used by such as can afford to purchase them.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   There is a striking difference between the present state of the
parish and that which existed when the former Statistical Account
was drawn up, in respect of population,--the number of the inha-
bitants since that time having more than doubled. Their houses
are generally better built and better furnished, and the comfort
of the people has undergone a similar beneficial change. The
establishment of schools for the education of youth, the forma-
tion of upwards of twenty miles of public roads, the opening of
the Crinan Canal, whereby facilities are incalculably increased for
exporting or importing produce, have all contributed to excite
emulation and industry, to enlighten the minds of the inhabitants,
and to render their situation, in many respects, more comfortable.

   April 1844.


