
414                        LANARKSHIRE.

which are not great. The parochial schoolmasters have all more
than the legal accommodation, except the schoolmaster at Chrys-
ton, who has no garden, and an insufficient dwelling-house.
The teachers have all attended the University of Glasgow; and
the principal teacher is a preacher of the Gospel. There are few,
if any, persons belonging to the parish who cannot read; but some
of the children of the weavers who cannot earn above 6s. a week
are put very early to drawing and even weaving, and are but par-
tially taught. We have at least three Sabbath schools in the west
division of the parish, supported by the lady before-mentioned.
There are small juvenile libraries attached to three of the Sunday
schools by Mrs Stirling. A library was originated last year at Au-
chenairn. There is a library also begun at Chryston.
	Societies.--We have two charitable societies in the west district
of the parish, of about thirty years standing. They do some good
to decayed members; but had it not been for extraneous aid, they
would have been far reduced, if not completely stink. There was
one in Chryston, perhaps more flourishing than either of them, and
which had existed longer, but it was by general consent dissolved
and the stock divided.
	Savings Bank.--The late Charles Stirling, Esq. about ten
years ago, established a savings bank, upon the liberal principle of
giving at least one per cent. above any chartered, united, or indi-
vidual banks. The whole of the parishioners, and even those in
contiguous parishes, are allowed to lodge their savings in it. A
great deal has been lodged; but not chiefly by those for whom such
banks are intended. It promises fair to supplant all the friendly
societies. The same active and enterprising merchant bequeathed to
the kirk-session of Cadder, the right of recommending three patients
to the Royal Infirmary of Glasgow. The parish had previously the
right of recommending at least one patient.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving Parochial aid is 16. The average allowance per month
is 4s. 4d. in the east district, and a little less in the west. There
are two persons in the asylum, supported at an average of 9s. 1d.
weekly. At the church and chapel, the collections amount to
about L. 27 annually, nearly in equal proportions. The deficien-
cy is made up by voluntary assessment. Besides the supply of the
regular poor by the collections and voluntary contributions, a small
proprietor of Slakiewood in the east district, named Walter Barton,
burdened his property in perpetuity with L. 5 Sterling annually, to


