
512                         ARGYLESHIRE.

fir woods ; but there hath none of them been seen in this country
these sixty or seventy years bypast.
" Besides the greater rivers or waters, Neaunnt, Lonan, Luach-
ragan, Lusragan, there are a great many small rivulets or brooks,
all replenished with small trouts at all times, and betwixt Michael.
mas and Hallowmas with greater trouts, of the bigness of herring,
or rather larger, which come in from the sea to spawn; and on
these greater rivers, there come in good store of salmon fish, some
of the largest sort, but most of the smaller, which are grilses.
The otters frequently haunt these rivers and brooks, and follow
them to their very original, near to the tops of hills.
" There is no considerable take of sea-fish here, only at the Con-
nel, and the little island near it called Glash Island, there is good
store of young seathes, codlings, and other small fish, caught with
rods all summer over.
"This country is designed by the name of Baronry of Kilmaro-
nag, from a village in it of that name, signifying, in the Irish lan-
guage, the cell of the Holy Cross, where as yet remain the walls of
an old church. This, it seems, of old, was esteemed the chief
place of the country, for here were the courts held; but, shortly
before the Reformation, there was another church built in Kile-
spikeril, now called Kirk Town, which now is the parochial
church. In the place where it stands, there was of old (and still
as yet used) a burial-place, and hard by it a standing cross, with
a crucifix. The stone is yet extant, without any inscription, ex-
cept the image of Christ extended, and it lieth in a grave instead
of a tomb. It seems there was a cell or chapel here of old, be-
fore the building of the church, denominated by or dedicated to
Bishop Cyrillus, or rather the old Scottish saint Coriolanus, whence
it retaineth the name of Kilespikeril.
   "There is one single roum of land, or plough of land, in this
country, called Achnacloicb, with the adjacent small isle Elina-
nabb, or Abbot's Isle, which is not within the said baronry, but is
holden of the abbot of Inshaffrey of Strathearn, belonging of a
long time by-past to the Laird of Lochnell, Campbell, and now
to a cadet of that family. Of old, because of the frequent incur-
sions of the English into this kingdom, and other commotions
it was usual that men of quality, whose interest lay in the low
countries, did purchase some small parcel of lands in the High-
lands, into which, in time of these public calamitiies they used to
withdraw for a while, when they could not, without hazard, reside


