
	                    SORN.                               135

ships of various kinds, and being cruelly treated in various ways,
he returned to Scotland, which he reached in 1685,--the year
when the persecution raged hottest in this and other districts of
the country. At the imminent risk of his life, yet under the guid-
ance and protection of a gracious God, who wrought out many
signal deliverances for him, he visited different districts of Ayr-
shire and Galloway, preaching, and warning men in the most
solemn manner of the awful judgments which the Lord, in conse-
quence of the impenitency and apostacy of the people of Scotland,
would at no very distant period bring upon them. At length worn
out and exhausted, and apprehensive that his latter end was draw-
ing nigh, he returned to his brother's house in this parish. But
as Sorn Castle, in the immediate neighbourhood of which it was si-
tuated, had, as has been already stated, a garrison of soldiers and
a governor for the purpose of overawing the people of the surround-
ing district, and of bringing such leading men as Peden to condign
punishment, he was aware that his arrival would soon become
known, and that, unless he had some place of concealment, he
must be detected. For this purpose, he caused a cave to be dug,
and there he was in the habit of hiding himself. Though every
moment in danger of being laid hold upon, he paid frequent visits
to his friends, and uttered many prophecies respecting the fate
which awaited the church and people of Scotland. On his death-
bed, Peden was visited by James Renwick, that eminent saint
and servant of God, and last martyr to the cause of civil and re-
ligious liberty in Scotland, whose presence was a great source of
comfort and refreshment to his spirit. After having very narrow-
ly escaped detection from his persecutors, who had searched every
place in and about his brother's house for him, he died there in
1686, in the sixtieth year of his age. The laird of Auchinleck, who
was favourable to the Presbyterian cause, allowed Mr Peden's re-
mains to be deposited in the family burial-place within the church
of Auchinleck. But the spirit of persecution, which raged with
such fury in this district of Scotland at this period, followed Mr
Peden even to his grave. Forty days after his burial, his corpse
was raised by a troop of dragoons, with the intention, it is believed,
of hanging it in chains on the gallows at Cumnock. But this
act of barbarity nn the part of Mr Peden's persecutors was pre-
vented through the intercession of the Countess of Dumfries and
the Lady of the Laird of Affeck, and the dead body was taken
down and re-interred at the foot of the gallows. Such, however


