
     Of Northmaven.

fall to the W. of the country coming from their northern 
voyages*. 

   Islands, Holms, Rocks.-This parish is bordered all around
with small islands, holms, and rocks, or pillars near the shore.
There is only one inhabited island called Lambs, on the E. 
side, possessed by one family; it has but little corn land, but 
can graze a few cattle and sheep.  At the S. end, and on the 
W. side, near the entrance into the parish, lies Eagleshey, an 
excellent island for grazing, and in it, are many rabbits.  N. 
of this lie 2 islands, Nibon and Gunister, and, like the for-
mer, graze cattle and sheep.  From this, there is a long range 
of rocks, holms, and islands, to the N. end of the parish. 
The most remarkable are, a rock rising perpendicular on all 
sides to a great height above the surface of the sea, and at a 
few miles distance, has the appearance of a ship with all her 
fails set.  It makes a good direction for vessels coming into 
Hillswick harbour, keeping to the E. of that rock, and half 
way from the shore.  Near to this, are 2 very high pillars, 
on which the larger kind of cormorants nestle, and what is 
remarkable, only successively, for the rock that is possessed 
by them one year, is deserted the next, and returned to again 
after being a year unpossessed.  In this manner have these 
rocks been occupied time immemorial.  Both rocks are in-
accessible.  There immense pillars, are to the same materials

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are no rivers nor woods in this parish, nor indeed in the whole coun-
try; but it abounds in lochs or fresh-water lakes, in which are found small 
trouts.  From there lochs, flow rivulets, brooks or burns, which, after great falls 
of rain, render travelling difficult, having no proper bridges.  There are many 
springs and wells of excellent water, and some mineral springs impregnated with 
iron, but have never yet been propertly investigated, nor used in the cure of any 
distemper.  Apple trees, and some barren shrubs grow in gardens, but no high-
er than the wall.  There are in many mosses, roots of trees found lying hori-
zontally, from which some think, that trees once grew in this country. 


