
572                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

their power to gratify them, and hence in their dress and house-
hold equipments are distinguished for cleanliness and comfort;
while in the very next dwelling, and with an income no way infe-
rior, there may be nothing but squalor and hardly a seat to sit
upon.
  While the habits are dissolute, the intelligence and morality
are low. Ignorance and ungodliness go hand in hand. Nor
can it well be expected to be otherwise. The young, even
where not previously neglected as to their education, are taken
from school often as early as eight years of age, to be set to
work in the pits, and soon forget any smattering they may
have acquired, and being, from so early a period of life, daily ex-
posed to the most corrupting influences, nothing else can result
but that the tastes and habits they acquire should be of a vi-
tiated nature, and their notions of morality perverted and de-
based.
   It is pleasing to record, however, amid so much that is unfa-
vourable, that a marked improvement has been going forward,
and that the means that have been used to render them as a class
more intelligent, moral, and religious, have not been altogether
unavailing, so as perhaps to warrant, the expectation that by per-
severance therein, still more cheering results may yet be pro-
duced, and a reformation be gradually effected, alike happy for
the individual and profitable for society. These, however, are
prevented from taking effect with numbers, who are continually
shifting from place to place, removing whenever they can get no
more credit, and in order to get quit, it may be feared, of the
debts that have been contracted. This mode of life they can all
the more easily follow, that coal-masters generally make no in-
quiry as to character, and if they have need of workmen, give em-
ployment to the first that offers. As far as obtaining employment
is concerned, good and bad are on an equal footing. In this re-
spect, it is no advantage to have a good character, while a bad one
subjects to no penalty, so that self-interest does not require that
the latter should be avoided or the former maintained; and thus
one of the salutary influences which men are subjected to in their
dependent relations in society is rendered inoperative. This is a
very great disadvantage, -must have contributed not a little
to make them what they are, and renders more hopeless their
ever being raised out of it while such a state of things con-
tinues.
			    3


