
358                ARGYLESHIRE.
                                Brought ave.            3281
Which, when deducted from thisyow's census,             4740
                                                        ----
                    Exhibits an Increase of             1459

         Population of Kilninian in 1841,        1794
         Tobermory,                              1371
         ulva,                                    858

The whole teinds of the united parish are valued, and exhaust-
ed, and drawn bv the present incumbent, the same being modified
to him by the lbourt of Teinds on 23d May 1827, amounting to
L.230, ]9s. 3,i'd. Sterling. Besides this, be receives from the
veritors a sum of money annually in lieu of manse and glebe.
The Duke of Argyle is patron.
The language commonly spoken is Gaelic, although almost all
understand or speak the English.
The exports are, kelp, black-cattle, horses, pigs, sheep, and
wool ; potatoes, bear, and eggs ; and the imports, oatmeal, seed,
corn, leathern salt, and a variety of merchant goods.
The roads are extremely bad, and the improvement of them
proceeds but slowly ; the funds allowed are so disproportionate to
the extent and surface, and to the expense requisite, that, unless
aid from Government is obtained to assist proprietors in their
laudable exertions to benefit the community, in openido, up new
lines and repairing old, there is no hope of any thing like an im-
provement being made for many years to come. However much
proprietors may be disposed to come forward, such is the extent
of the evil, that their individual and unaided efford are, by the
magnitude of the lines, and extent of accommodation required,
completely paralysed. It is humbly thought a little of the public
money might be advantageously and profitably employed, even In
a national point of view, in forwarding this very desirable object.
From what has already been said of the soil, agriculture, and
population, it will be readily believed, that many of the people are
poor, and the only common fund they have to look to for assist-
ance, is what is collected for them at the respective churches or,
Sabbaths, together with occasional fines exacted for immoralities
yet such is their spirit of independence, that very fev indeed will
apply for relief to this source, unless under the lessure of actual
want.
Wages.-The wages of a man servant for a year way average
L.6, and a maid servant's L.4; labourerr, Is. to 1.5. 3d. per day;
and tradesmen, Is. 6d. to 2 s.
There lias been a decided change for to better, n this part


