
                     CROMARTY.                               9

   The late Dr James Robertson, Librarian of the University of
Edinburgh, and Professor of the Oriental Languages, was, like
Sir Thomas, a native of Cromarty. His history is.that of many
a scholar, and many a man of genius besides.  He entered life
poor and friendless, and with a thirst for knowledge which every
fresh draught served only to increase, spent his early days in a
long struggle with difficulties and privations, which a spirit not in-
vincible could not have overcome.  He is the author of a Hebrew
grammar, to which the self-taught linguist, Dr Alexander Murray,
owed, as he tells us in his interesting autobiography, his first intro-;
duction to Hebrew; and we learn from Boswell, in his Jotrnal of
a Tour to the Hebrides, that Dr Johnson when in Edinburgh
"was much pleased with the College Library, and with the conver-
sation of Dr James Robertson, the librarian."
   Traditional Stories.- There is hardly a district of Scotland that
has more traditional stories connected with it than the parish of
Cromarty, or whose legends seem more various in their origin, or
are more distinctly impressed with the character of the past ages.
Some of these belong evidently to a very early period, and seem
to have floated into it from the neighbouring Highlands. There are
other stories which are peculiar to it as a remote sea port, inhabit-
ed for ages by sailors and fishermen; while a third and more recent
class belongs to it as an insulated lowland colony. No single story,
therefore, can be regarded as a specimen of the whole; and it is,
besides, rather a nice matter to make choice of one, when there are
hundreds from which to select; but even one, though taken at ran-
dom, may serve as a sort of- relief to the dryness of topographical
history.
   There is a little path which, in the eastern part of the parish,
goes winding over rock and stone along the edge of a range of
low-browed precipices, till it reaches a fine spring Of ]impid wa-
ter, that comes gushing out of the side of a bank covered with moss
and daisies.  This beautiful spring has been known to the people
of the town for a century and more, by the name of Fiddler's-well.
Its waters are said to be medicinal ; and there is a tradition still
preserved of the circumstance through which its virtues were first
discovered, and to which it owes its name.  Two young men of
the place, who were much attached to each other, were seized at
nearly the same time by'consumption.  In one, the progress of the
disease was rapid; he died two short months after he was attack-
ed by it; while the other, though wasted almost to a shadow, had

