
628                         FIFESHIRE.

time to time. At each meeting of the society, a subject is appoint-
ed for discussion at next meeting. An essay is occasionally read,
though: the stated production of one is not imperative on the mem-
bers. They are, however, expected to bring before the meet-
ing any information or suggestion connected with the profession,
which they may have acquired by reading or observation; and to
give an account of the schools which they may have visited, plans
of teaching, and improvements they may have observed. Such
communications lead to many an interesting and useful conversa-
tion,-keep the members alive to the improvements that are goina
on in education,-stimulate their diligence, and prevent them from
falling behind the time, in the art of communicating instruction.
   At these meetings, the "brethren" really meet as brothers, and
an unbroken course of good feeling is kept up amongst them.
   1 believe the- East of Fife Educational Society is unique in its
kind; but it might not, perhaps, be unworthy the consideration of
the schoolmasters in other parts of the country, whether something
of the same kind ought not to be originated among them.
  Charitable Institutions.-Two friendly societies are in -existence,
called the Morteloth and Benefit Society, and the Sea Box. The
former has existed since 1670, but was re-established in 1819.
Its members pay I s. 6d. quarterly, or 6s. a year. In case of sickness,
any of the members is entitled to 5s. weekly for nine weeks duringthe
year, and no longer. When a member dies, each of the survivors is
bound to pay 6d. to the treasurer, who gives the amount to the
widow or nearest relation of the deceased, as funeral money; and
each widow is entitled to an annual pension of L. 2, 12s., paid
quartely or yearly, as she may require. The writer is uncertain
whether the Sea Box is a separate society or whether it is con-
nected with that of Anstruther Easter. Both of them, however,
are useful in supplying the wants of their members, and in keeping
upi spirit of independence, by preventing them from sinking down
to the grade of paupers.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of the poor on the
roll is six; but there are others who receive occasional relief
None get more than 10s. per month, and none less than 4s. The
average may thus be about 7s. The sum collected yearly at the
church door amounts to about L.9.  This, however, is exclusive
of what is collected  upon sacramental and other extraordinary oc-
casions,  which is applied to:the occasional relief of individuals in
indigent circumstances, who either do not require do not choose



