
     Statistical Account

good cattle of the Galloway and Lancashire kinds.  The
cattle at the Highland dairy, are worth about L. 10 each,
and the whole of the cattle within the parks, amounting to
near 600, may be worth L. 8 at an average.  Here are al-
so some English sheep of the Bakewell breed, some of the
Linton, many of the small Highland kind, and a Spanish ram.
At Benbuie there is a considerable sheep stock of the Gal-
loway black-faced breed.  The sheep and cattle of the parish
in general, are not of a superior quality or value to those of
the neighbourhood.  The district abounds with game, par-
ticularly deer, roes, hares, heath-fowls, and grouse.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The Duke of Argyll is patron of
both livings.  The family of Argyll have at all times
countenanced the clergy, particularly the ministers of this
place, and have uniformly accommodated them with farms
at a low rent, near the town, indeed on such moderate terms,
as scarcely to have exceeded a twentieth part of their va-
lue.  The livings are good, though the amount of them
cannot be exactly ascertained at present; they arise from
the teinds of the parish, now exhausted, (which have been
voluntarily given up by the Duke of Argyll,) and from
the Bishop's teinds in the gift of the Synod*.  Both mini-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Upon this subject it may be observed, that a Committee of Parlia-
ment for the valuation of the teinds of Argyllshire, fat at Inveraray in
1629-30, and reported an accurate statement of the same; which forms
at present part of the records of the Teind-office at Edinburgh, and in uni-
formly approven of by the High Court of the Commission of Teinds in
Scotland.  The minutes of the proceedings of this Committee, are still
extant, and in the possession of the Synod of Argyll, then designed the
Provincial Assembly of Argyll, which met regularly twice every year
from the 1639 to the 1661, and went through much business with great
deliberation, and without being molested or interrupted by the com-
motions and troubles, which at that time prevailed in Scotland.  Ano-


