
     of Kinnoul.

one of the most frequented passes in Scotland. Some of these
boats were occasionally employed as lighters, for vessels in the
river.  In this state, things continued until 1765, when a
subscription for a new bridge was opened, chiefly by the pa-
tronage of the late Earl of Kinnoul, to whose patriotic exer-
tions, it is well known, the present bridge over the Tay at
Perth, owed its existence.  It was reared under his auspices;
he pledged a considerable part of his private fortune, to carry
on the work; and it will remain a lasting monument, to
the honour of that great and worthy nobleman.  The sub-
scription soon amounted to L. 11,298:17:6, of which
government furnished no less a sum than L. 4000.
   The foundation stone was laid on the 13th September 1766,
by its principal promoter, the Earl of Kinnoul, in presence of
the sheriff-depute of the county, the Provost and Magistrates
of Perth, and several other gentlemen, amidst the applausses of
thousands of spectators.  The bridge was compleated, and the
last of the workmen paid off, 13th of November 1771.  The
Earl of Errol's coach was the first that passed along the bridge,
in the winter between 1770 and 1771.  The plan was drawn
by Mr Smeaton architect, and the work executed according to
his orders, by Meffrs Guyn, Morton, and Jamieson.  The
bridge consists of 10 arches, one of which is a land arch.  The
clear water way, is 589 feet 9 inches.  The extent of all the
arches, 730.9.  The wing walls, 176.  So that the total length
of the bridge, is 906 feet 9 inches; and to the credit of the ar-
chitect and undertakers, it has remained hitherto firm and un-
shaken.  The utility of this bridge is not confined to Perth and
its neighbourhood, but extends to the country at large; as all
are more or less concerned in an easy and safe communication,
at so centrical a situation, between the northern and southern
parts of Scotland. Several attempts were made at different
periods, to rebuild the bridge at Perth, but all these attempts


