
                      LASSWADE.                             327

val commanders from achieving victories, which, there is every
reason to believe, they would have done, had the enemy been as
eager to engage as the British were.  In place of this, while the
enemy's fleet was carrying on a kind of running fight, and our fleet
was endeavouring to bring on a general engagement, a decisive re-
sult was seldom or never obtained.  During the time that this de-
sultory warfare was going on, and many persons were surprised
that the meeting of hostile fleets generally led to no other conse-
quence than a certain amount of firing and of skilful manouvering,
it occurred to John Clerk, who had no practical knowledge what-
ever of naval affairs, that a remedy might be applied.  His reme-
dy was, to break the line of the enemy, and to direst the whole
force on one or two divisions of the fleet, whereby either a general
engagement was necessarily brought on, or the ship attacked were
sacrificed by the flight of the rest.  Ever since this idea has been
acted on, the most splendid and decisive victories have been ob-
tained.  We are aware that attempts have been made by the re-
presentatives of some of our greatest naval commanders, to show
that John Clerk was not the discoverer of the new and successful
mode of carrying on naval warfare.  But we believe that, were the
heroes themselves still alive, they would willingly concede to Mr
Clerk the honour of the discovery which has been made in naval
tactics; while they satisfied themselves with reaping the laurels of
the successful execution.
   Mr Clerk died on the 1Oth of May 1812, and as yet no monu-
ment has been erected to his memory in testimony of a nation's
gratitude.  He was the father of the late John Clerk, Esq. Advo-
cate, who was afterwards raised to the Bench, and look the desig-
nation, of Lord Eldin.
   The late Lord Melville.--The family of Dundas is one of the
most ancient in Scotland.  The Dundases of Arniston and Mel-
ville are descended from King Robert 1. of Scotland by the
youngest daughter of that monarch, and are connnected with the
royal family of Great Britain by the mother of the first Lord Pre-
sident Dundas, who was linelly descended from the Princess Mary,
eldest daughter of King James  II.  Of this ancient family, five
members made a most distinguished appearance on the Bench, and
four most ably filled  the office of Lord Advocate.
   Henry Dundas, the late Lord Melville, was the, fourth son
of Robert Dundas of Arniston, by his second wife, Anne, daugh-
ter of Sir William Gordon or Invergordon, Bart.  He was born


