
FETLAR AND NORTH YELL.                             35

,a considerable increase in the number of inhabitants.  The pa-
rishes are susceptible of much improvement, were a better system
of husbandry introduced,-were farms enlarged, and nineteen
years leases granted.  But the people are rather of a rambling
turn; do not like to be confined to one place; are often flitting
from mere caprice.; frequently remove to Lerwick, where they
think they will be free of voar and harvest labour; and, after bav-
ing spent, in Lerwick, what little they have saved here, return des-
titute, and are glad to get a bit of land, probably much inferior
to what they possessed years before.


Since the above was written, a fearful increase of destitution
has taken place.  The three or four years of famine preceding
the last harvest have completely impoverished almost every family
in the two parishes, and the poor have increased far beyond the
means in our power to relieve them.  In the years of famine, the
parish poor had more good m eal supplied them, than they could
ever before command; for the stores sent us by the benevolence of
our brethren in Scotland and England (though the portion given
to our poor was very scanty in comparison) were regularly doled
out to them, and gave them a more abundant supply than they
could have received from their own country &oduce, even in the
best years.  But now, -since this source has been closed tip, and
those by whom they -used to be -maintained can hardly maintain
themselves, I know not what is to become of them.  Our rich be-
ritors are nonresident and, though written to repeatedly, have not
responded very satisfactoril          11s; and the resident small
y to our ea
heritors have enough to do with themselves.
In addition to the temporal wants of these parishes, they suffer
nauch from spiritual Destitution.
From the difficulties of travelling, the parish of North Yell must
often be without sermon for many weeks; and in the most favour-
able circumstances there -can be sermon there only onee a fortnight
From the poverty of the parish nothing can be done to -remedy
this evil ; And, unless the Committee on the Royal Bounty wil(
lAace an ordained minister in North Yell to take the spiritualcharp
of that parish, it must still continue in that neglected state-

Reviied June 1841.


