
	70                                 BANFFSHIRE.

	for the most part, on vegetable food, the produce of their own
	corn and potatoe fields and kailyards. If, to this very sober fare
	they were permitted to add the exhilarating beverage of a little
	small beer, they would be very thankful; but this, they have been
	for many years prevented from enjoying by the very heavy duty upon
	malt, amounting, when barley is at its lowest price, and of course,
      when they can least bear it, to upwards of 100 per cent.,\f* and by the
	vexatious restrictions which have till lately attended this enormous
	duty. The illicit distillation of whisky, till the excise laws upon that
        head were rendered more moderate and judicious, was very preva-
	lent among them, and was of course attended with its usual de-
	moralizing effects. There is now perhaps no such thing in the
	parish; though certainly the government's repeatedly tampering
	with these laws in the way they have done is calculated to repro-
	duce it. It is, however, apprehended, that habits which, under so
	baneful a system were contracted, have not in every instance been
	got the better of.
	    During the last three years there have been 5 illegitimate births
	in the parish.

			         IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.-

	The number of imperial acres in the parish, which are either cultivated or oc-
	 casionally in tillage is							2800
	The number which have never been cultivated, and which remain constantly
	 waste or in pasture,								5100
	The number of acres which might, with a profitable application of capital, be
	 added to the cultivated land of the parish, whether that land were to be kept
	 in occasional tillage or in permanent pasture,				         250
	There is no land in the parish in a state of undivided common.
	Number of acres under wood, natural or planted,				         600

   	   Common fir, with a small proportion of larch, is the wood gene-
	rally planted, and alder, bireb, hazel, and gean tree is that which
	is indigenous, and grows by the sides of the burn and of the small
	streams which run into it. Of late, fully as much alder has been
	cut down for herring-barrel states, as was compatible with keep-
	ing up the natural beauty of the place; while in some of the fir
	plantations, a little more thinning would be favourable to their
	health and vigour.
	   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land in the parish

	resting to mention, that his trin daughters, if we may use a word which is seldom
	needed, are all alive and in good health. It may also be interesting to mention other
	two singular facts relating to the same family,-for four successive generations they
	have held an office in the eldership; and the fifth generation of the family is now upon
	the same farm.

	<FOOTNOTE>In 1833, baxley was as low as 19s. per quarter, and the duty upon a quarter of
	malt was and is L. I, 0s. 8d.


