
     of Campbelton.

our Scottish sovereigns, which, an author in a remote cor-
ner, with few books to consult on the subject, may not per-
haps be able entirely to remove.  Upon the death of Achy,
Murdach, the son of Anchellach, according to the annals
of Tighearnach, assumed the kingdom of Lorn*, at a time
when it would seem, from the annals of Ulster, that Dun-
laing, brother of Achy, (and another son of Doncha Beg)
ascended the throne of Kintyre, The death of this prince
is placed in 746, when he was succeeded by Aodh Fionn, or
Aiden the fair, (son of his brother Achy) remarkable for his
long reign of 30 years.  The end of this period will bring
us down to 776, which begins the reign of Fergus, another
son of Achy, whose death is marked, in the annals of Ulster,
under the year 780.
   To Fergus succeeded Donchorcai, who died in 791, bear-
ing, like Fergus, the title of King of Dalruaidh.  The Co-
nal, who stands next in the ordinary list, is probably the son
of Ao'ain, (or Aodh, above mentioned) whose death the an-
nals of Ulster place in 806, when he was probably succeed-
ed by Angus, (son of Dunlaing) who died in 81 l.
   Between Angus and Alpine three other kings intervene,
Aodh, Eoghanan and Dugbal; and although some questions

<FOOTNOTE>

*About the close of the partial reign of Murdach, (ann.
Ult. 735) Ungust, King of the Picts, committed great devasta-
tion in his territories.  He took Dunath, burned Creich, and
put the sons of Selvac in chains, as their father had formerly
treated his own brother.  He also repeated his hostile visit soon
after, and crushed the house of Lorn to such a degree, that it
never afterwards recovered.  Still, however, it had some who
claimed, occasionally, the title of King; of whom were pro-
bably Donald, one of the Conals, and that Constantine, who
appears in the list of our Scottish Kings.  He was probably
the last of those who ventured, in 799, to engage in a skirmish
with the house of Kintyre, in which Fiangalach, son of Dun-
laing, was killed.


