
54                         STIRLINGSHIRE.

 	               IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The number of cultivated acres in the parish,
imperial measure, is 5332; the number of acres which have never
been cultivated, and which are in pasture, is 3762 ; the number of
acres under wood, both natural and planted, is 574. The different
kinds of trees which are planted, and which have been already
mentioned under the head of Natural History, are, oak, ash,
Scotch and silver fir, larch, plane, elm, willow, and birch. The
indigenous or natural wood consists chiefly of oak, ash, birch, and
willow. The woods are under good management, and are regular.-
ly thinned, pruned, and felled, at the proper periods.
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of dryfield is from L. 1, 5s.
to L.2 per acre; and of carse land from L.2, 5s. to L.3 per acre.
Mr Moir of Leckie has lately let some capital farms at L. 3, 3s.
per acre. The average rent of grazing in the high lands, is at the
rate of 15s. to L. 1, 5s, per ox or cow, and in the lowlands at the
rate of L, 3; and at the rate of 6s. per ewe or full-grown sheep
pastured for a year.
    Wages.--The rate of labour, winter and summer, for different
kinds of farm-work, is from 9s. to 1Os. per week. The rate of
wages for male farm-servants is from L. 12 to L. 18; and for fe-
male-servants, from L.5 to L.7 per annum. Masons' and carpen-
ters' wages are 14s. per week.
    Live-Stock.--Particular attention has been paid to the improve-
ment of the breed of.black-faced sheep, and of cattle Of the Ayr-
shire kind.
    With respect to the rotation of crops, it is as follows, viz. dry-
field, three years pasture; if limed upon the sward, two crops of
oats, but if not limed, one crop of oats; next, green crop of
potatoes or turnips ; then barley; and after that bay. The rota-
tion of crops on the carse-land is, 1st, summer fallow; 2d, wheat;
3d, beans; 4th, barley; 5th, hay; 6th, oats. In some farms where
the soil is dry, the tenant pastures two years.
   Wedge-Draining.--The wedge drain is three feet deep, twelve
inches broad at the top, and two inches broad at the bottom.
Three kinds of spades and a cleaner are used in digging it; 1st, a
common spade; 2d, a spade four inches broad at the point; 8d,
spade two inches broad at the point. The clay is dug out with
gradual slope on both sides to the bottom. The cleaner is in
the form of st half-cylinder, about a foot or fourteen	inches long,
with a wooden handle, five or six feet in length.  With this the


