
                          GOVAN.                        703

July, the see of Glasgow being vacant, Edward II of England,
who was then at York, appointed to the prebend of Govan, in the
church of Glasgow, " Johannes de Lund." *  This unfortunate
Prince, in the course of that summer, made an unsuccessful at-
tempt to regain possession of Berwick, and to recover his lost power
in Scotland.  He was not in a good condition, therefore, to enforce
respect to his presentation, which was perhaps never seen by the
chapter of Glasgow.  The name of William de Govan, one of the
canons of the church of Glasgow, appears in various old charters. +
His name is also attached to `n inventory ++ of all the ornaments,

<FOOTNOTE>Rym. Foed. Tom. iii. p. 785. His name was probably Lundy. A Sir Richard
Lundy, a Scotchman of birth and family, attached to the interests of the first Edward,
is mentioned by Hume.  (Hist. of Eng. Vol. ii. p. 285, Lond. 1825.) There was,
in the Cathedral Church	od Glasgow in 1401, a grievous deficiency of canonical
vestments. and other " pleasand playokis," as Andro de Wyntoun oddly terms them.
(Cronykil of Scotland, B. ix. C. vi.) To supply this deficiency, (grandem et detes.
tabilem ornamentorum defectum),	the Bishop, with the concurrence of the Dean and
Chapter, imposed upon each of the prebendaries, a tax, which was regulated by the
amount of their respective incomes. The sum paid by the prebendary of Govan was
40 shillings(40 solidos, not L. 3, as is crroneously stated by Chalmers, Caled. Vol. iii.
p. 675.) Cart. Glasg. Tom. i. p. 454.
          Id. pp. 559, 571, 575.
          Id. pp. 627-542. Along with numerous gold and silver chalices, patines, cru-
cifixes, censers, fonts, pastoral staves, owches, rings, and a variety of splendid vest-
ments, for the use of the Bishop and the officiating Priests, we find in this curious
collection, two silver crosses gilt, adorned with precious stones. and having inserted in
each of them a small fragment of the original cross, (una particula ligni Domini);
a part of the girdle, few hairs, and some of the milk of the blessed Virgin; apart of
the manger in which our Saviour was laid; part of the scourges of St Kentigern and
St Thomas of Canterbury ; part of the hairy shirt of the patron saint; part of the
skin of St Bartholomew ; part of the cloak of St Martin ; and two sacks of the bones
of known and unknown saints; (duo sacculi linei cum ossibus S. Kentigerni, Sancti
Tenau, et aliorum decessorum Sanctorum). The price ofrelics fell wonderfully after
the Reformation. Frederic, Elector of Saxony, in the early part of his reign, col-
lected these from every part of Europe. Burcardi, a German monk, was employed
to procure some for him in Italy.  These were afterwards returned by Spalatinus,
the Secretary of Frederic, along with a letter to Burcardi, dated 28th of July 1522,
in which he says, " you will receive all the relics you sent to us, and also the cross, to
be sold by you for what you can get for them. For here, even the common people
have so far changed their opinions, that they think it enough for them, as it certainly
is, to be instructed by the word of God, and to have faith and confidence in God, and
love to their neighbour." (Seckepdorf, Com. Hist. et Apol. de Lutheranismo, lib. i.
p. 228.  Lipsise, 1694. Bayle Dict. Art . Vergerius.) James Beatoun, Archbishop
of Glasgow, when be retired to France with the French fleet in 1560, tonk along
with him the plate, chartulary, and other things of value belonging to the Cathedral.
Some of these he ordered to be deposited, after his death in the monastery of the
Carthusians at Paris, and others in the Scots College there, " appointing the same to
be delivered how soon Glasgow should become Catholic."  We do not perceive in
the inventory " the image of our Saviour in beaten gold, and the portraits of the
twelve apostles in silver which Spotswood speaks of.  (Hist. p. 477.)  Neither are
these taken notice of in the description of the records, images. crosses, and relice,
carried off by Beatoun, which was sent from Paris to Dr McKenzie, in the beginning
of the last century.  (M.Kensie's Lives, Vol. iii. p. 465. Edin. 1722)  With re-
gard to the chartulary.  Dr Gordon, Principal of the Scots College, Paris, caused a
copy of it to be taken in 1766, for the purpose of presenting it to the University of
Glasgow.  This he did, through Professor Cumin, who was in Paris on that time.
(Brown, Hist. of Glasg. Vol. ii. p. 74.) The orignal along with other valuable


