
     of Sanqubar.

ness of the pasture and the height of the walk are insuperable
difficulties to their succeeding, not merely in the opinion,
but in the experience of the store-masters.  It may with pro-
priety be added under this head, that the rains which which are
drawn out of the Atlantic, being formed into clouds, and dri-
ven thus far by the W. and S. W. winds, are attracted and
broken by the high hills in the parish.  And as there are the
points from whence the most frequent and the strongest winds
blow, so, from the elevation of the hills, there are here more
frequent and heavy rains than in that part of the country which
lies more towards the east.  These heavy rains wash off part
of the soil, and are injurious to sheep, in general, and parti-
cularly to the white-faced sort, which are found from the tri-
als that have been made, to pine away into a meagre, filly race,
exciting the pity and disappointing the hopes of the store-mas-
ter.  And as the native sheep of these high lands are in general
very healthy, and fatten on their natural pasture to 10 and 12,
and even 14 lb. per quarter, it is not likely that any new ex-
periments to change them for a different breed will hastily
be made, as every experiment of this kind is attended with
risque.  It is the general practise of the country to salve or
smear the sheep, which the store-masters universally allow
both improves the quality and increases the quantity of the
wool.  It serves to make the wool adhere more closely to the
body of the sheep, and fortifies them against the pernicious
influence of the storms of the winter.  It serves also as a de-
fence against the attacks of vermin.  When this is omitted,
as it has been, by way of experiment, with a few sheep, in
good condition and on the best pasture, the animals indeed
survived, but the wool grew so coarse and shaggy, that it
might with more propriety be called hair.  The climate and height
of the walk seem to regulate the quantity of salve necessary for
the preservation anti defence of the sheep.  It is applied in larger

     VOL. VI. 3 L


