
170			WIGTONSHIRE.

      Greystone, or Galloway granite, is found in many places of Pen-
ninghame, but in masses, not stratified as in the neighbouring parish
of Kirkmabreck. The masses of granite in this parish are from a few
pounds to many tons in weight. Sometimes it is found mixed with
red, and sometimes with green sienite. It is much used in building,
and can be cut with wedges to any dimensions. It is commonly
used instead of freestone, but when dressed to a smooth surface, it
becomes expensive, though it forms a beautiful and durable build-
ing. In common cheap buildings, it is coarsely dressed with picks,
and in that case thd expense is less than that of freestone,-much
time and labour are necessary for smoothing it with a kind of axe-
shaped pikes and chessels, made for the purpose.
      The soil of the parish is very various:-by the moss of Cree
it is heavy, being a clayey loam. The moss itself is deep, and
rests on clay: it contains trees, but where they grew, or how they
became imbedded in it, is not known. On the higher land, the
soil, where improved, is either dry, or may be easily made so, and
bears good crops, especially barley, oats, turnips, and potatoes.
The soil is particularly adapted for barley. The subsoil in those
lands is generally either gravelly or sandy; sometimes it is a close
kind of clayey till. In the northern end of the parish, the land is
much inferior in value, and there is much variety of soil. The
surface is generally uneven. The larger and smaller dlinences
are dry, while the land among them is frequently wet and marshy.
A great portion of the parish is capable of being drained, and
as there are stones to be found very generally, much of it might
be drained at no great expense. Excepting in the south end of
the parish, the soil is not in general very deep, and it requires a
considerable quantity of manure, especially where the subsnil is
sandy, or of a dry sharp gravel.
       The fields abound with detached masses of stone, as well as
with small loose stones. The clearing of an acre of those masses,
some of them several tons in weight, is frequently attended with
much expense; but as the fences on the hard land are common-
ly stone, dikes, and as drains are often necessary, the stones may,
in most instances, be turned to a good account.
      Ichthyology.-Salmon are numerous in the Cree. The dis-
trict is fully supplied with them, and many are sent to Carlisle and
Liverpool. The upper part of the river has been carefully pro-
tected for some years, and the number of fishes has greatly increas-
ed. Under the term salmon I have comprehended grilse, which


