
		 	KIRKGUNZEON.                        221

all the parish. Formerly, there were cottages attached to each
farm, where labourers resided. These have nearly all been swept
away; and in some places where five or six families formerly resid-
ed, there is not a stone left to mark where the cottages stood.
There is only one small village, which stands in the neighbour-
hood of the church. It contains the school-house, a smithy, a
joiner's shop, two small shops for groceries and other merchan-
dize. An excellent mill adjoins the village, which is constantly
employed throughout the year in grinding meal and making pot
barley.
	The people, in general, are industrious, moral and religious.
Poaching, however, is carried on to a greater extent than it was
formerly, owing to the facility of transporting the game to Liver-
pool by steam vessels. The quantity of game caught at night is
incredible; and the gentlemen who are most strict in preserving
it, generally suffer most, as the poachers invariably select their
grounds for depredation.

			TV.,-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--Lime is brought to the port of Dalbeattie, and is in
great request at some distance from the harbour. As the lands
in the vicinity of the port have been regularly limed for thirty
years past, the farmers have in a great measure declined to use
this manure to any great extent. The introduction of bone ma-
nure has created a great revolution in the mode of farming. The
ordinary rotation is a crop of oats from ley land; 2d, green crop
of potatoes or turnips; 3d, barley or oats; and, 4th, hay. The
ground is then pastured and broken up according to the rotation.
Wheat is seldom sown, as the farmers think that barley is fully as
profitable a crop, and that it does not scourge the land so severely.
Upon the whole, the system of agriculture has been greatly
changed to the better, and the produce of the land dnubled
within these twenty years.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--The nearest post-office is the village
of Dalbeattie, which is only four miles distant. There is a daily
post to that place; but the most of the inhabitants receive their
letters from Dumfries, which is nine miles distant. Two carriers to
Dumfries pass through the parish twice in the week. The turn-
pike road is excellent, and there are three bridges on it, which are
kept in good repair. Two coaches travel daily to Kirkcudbright,
and return the same day to Dumfries.


