
			COLINTON.                                 131

these schools English and writing are taught, and in two a little
arithmetic is added.  There are not above two or three grown up
persons in the parish who cannot read. It is to be feared, however,
that the instruction received in youth is sometimes so far neglected
in after years, as to render reading a labour rather than a pleasure.
The people in general are desirous to have their children instructed,
and there is no house in the parish that is two miles distant from a
school.  There are generally 238 children enrolled at the schools
within the parish, and there may be about 30 more who attend
schools in neighbouring parishes.
   There are five Sabbath-evening schools taught in the parish,
one in each of the principal villages; and a tract "the Monthly
Visitor," is left with every family in the parish, once a month.
   Libraries.-There are two libraries in the parish, one in Colin-
ton village, kept in the parish school, which has been shut for many
years, but steps are now taking to make it available to the public;
the other is at Slateford, under the charge chiefly of the kirk-
session of the chapel there; but it is to be regretted that the
volumes most frequently asked for are those that minister amuse-
ment rather than to edification.  There is also a small library
connected with the parish school the gift of a friend, the books in
which are lent to the advanced children as a reward for diligence
in their studies.  Those who are entitled to receive books pay to
the library one penny per quarter.
   Friendly Societies.-There are two Friendly Societies in the parish
which provide for the support of,their members when laid aside from
work by disease or accident, &c.  The Old Society, established in
1801, allows to its sick members 4s. per week. for the first thirteen
weeks, 2s. for the next twenty-six weeks, and 1s. 6d a-week for
the rest of the time they are off work; it also allows L.3 for the
burial of the man, and L.2 for the burial of the wife, while it gives,
if the funds will allow, 10s. a-year to the widow.  It has 50 mem-
bers.
   The New Society was established in 1814,  and had its rules new
modelled in 1829, according to the suggestions thrown out by the
Highland Society and approved of in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment on that subject.  The allowances made by this society to its
members are, 5s. a-week for the first year in which they are
by sickness unfitted for gaining their  bread; 3s. 6d. per   week
for the second year; and thereafter 2s. 6d. per week. so long
as they shall require it; an allowance is made of L.5 for the fune-


