
340                       LANARKSHIRE.

Among the lower orders of the people, there are now more tem-
perance and industry than formerly.
	The inhabitants of Leadhills have long enjoyed a respectable
character, and every encouragement is held out for them to main-
tain the high character which they have gained. They have an ex-
cellent library, and through the liberality of the Earl of Hopetoun
they enjoy many comforts. They have been allowed as much of the
waste or muirland as they can cultivate.

	July 1835.
			PARISH OF CULTER.

	PRESBYTERY OF BIGGAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

		THE REV. JAMES PROUDFOOT, MINISTER.

		I.-- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--THE name of this parish is a Gaelic
compound, consisting of Cul, the back part or recess, and Tir, the
land or country. The village of Culter accordingly, viewed from
any commanding station in the adjacent valle , appears to occupy
the "Back part or Recess of the District."
	In 1794, a decreet was given by the Lords of Council and Ses-
sion suppressing the parish of Kilbucho, and annexing part of the
same to that of Culter. By this deed, which took effect on the
death of the then minister of Kilbucho, a very considerable addi-
tion was made both to the territorial extent and population of Cul-
ter. The following remarks, therefore, refer both to Culter, as de-
scribed in the former Statistical Account, and to that part of Kil-
bucho which has since been added.
	Extent, &c.--The mean length of the parish, as it is now con-
stituted, is 7 miles, and the mean breadth somewhat less than 3.
It contains 19 square miles. In shape, it is a long narrow tract, ex-
tending from north to south; the Kilbucho part forming a large
excrescence on the eastern side of its northern extremity. It is
bounded on the west by Lamington and Symington; on the north
by Biggar and a small part of Skirling; on the east by the united
parishes of Broughton, Glenholm, and Kilbucho; and on the south
by Drummelzier and Crawford.
				4


