
                798                    PERTHSHIRE.

                amygdaloid of Scotland, is green earth, or compact chlorite.  It is
                found in small globular pieceso, and in such abundance, that it is
                scarcely possible to detach a fragment from the rock at the quarry
                without perceiving several specimens.  This green earth is some-
                times used as a pigment in water-painting, and is the mountain-
                green of painters.
                   Quarries.-There are five trap or whinstone quarries in this pa-
                rish, which are now, or have been wrought at other times.  One
                of them is on the Kinmonth property, about two and a-half miles
                frol the parish church; two on the Moncrieffe property (one at
                Craigend and the other at Easter Moncrieffe); and two on the
                Dunbarny property, about a mile and a-half west from the church.
                The stones taken from these quarries are used for drains and road-
                metal.  A few blocks are occasionally employed as materials for
                building; but from the copious masses of sandstone found in dif-
                ferent parts of the neighbourhood, little whinstone is required for
                this purpose.  At Dunbarny, and Pitkeathly, there are sandstone
                or freestone quarries of a dark-red hue.  Both dip towards the
                south-east.  The sandstone of Dunbarny is of a durable charac-
                ter, and from it great quantities of stones have been conveyed for
                building, not only to different parts of this parish, but also to
                Perth, Abernethy, and other places.  It is wrought with iron
                wedges, the applicatictn of gunpowder being seldom resorted to
                as in whinstone quarries.  Some of the strata are uncommonly
                hard, and to penetrate and detach them requires great labour on
                the part of the workmen.  More than seventy years have elapsed
                since the Dunbarny quarry was opened.  It yields an annual rent
                of L.17.
                  The sandstone of Pitkeathly quarry is composed of softer ma-
                terials and from this cause the working of it has been discontinued
                for several years.  The mansion-house of Kilgraston was built,
                partly from the Dunbarny and partly from the Pitkeathlv quarries-
                  At Dunbarny quarry, stone for hewn work is sold at from 3 1/2d.
                to 5d. per foot; ruble or building stone at 6d. per cart-load.
                  Botany.-Plants found on the face of Moncreiffe Hill.

                Atrpa Belladonna            Dianthus deltoides          Geranium molle
                Anchusa Officinalis         Rosa spinosissima           -------- sylvaticum
                Gentlana campestris         Cistus helianthemum         -------- columbinum
                Erisa Tetralix              Moconepais cambrica         -------- lucidum
                ----- alba                  Antirrhinum cymbalaria      -------- sanguineum
                ----- cinerea               Thymus flora alba           Oraithopus perousillna
                Callum vulgaria             Digitalis alba              Gnaphalium dioicum

                                         		4

