
				COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                   157

	proficiency in these accomplishments.  The violin is the only in-
	strument in use, and the music is Scottish, with a few rude na-
	tive melodies.  Music and dancing have been recently much dis-
	couraged, from a most erroneous notion that they lead to vicious
	excesses.  The effects of such a check to an enjoyment in itself
	innocent, and to the love of home, fostered by pleasurable asso-
	ciations, can be easily imagined.
	   The people are slavishly indulgent, or rather obedient to their
	children; and this is perhaps one reason why gratitude, filial duty,
	and reverence for old age are not thought to be among their pro-
	minent virtues.  Superstitions are prevalent, though they present
	little novel or interesting.  Witchcraft, charms, and apparitions,
	are firmly believed in ; but the idea of fairies is becoming obsolete.
	   Benefit Societies.--Benefit societies are not well adapted to their
	habits, the advantages to be derived from them appearing too dis-
	tant and contingent.  A Fisherman's Fund, for the relief of widows,
	orphans, and infirm individuals, was established in 1810.  The ca-
	pital, it is understood, is nearly L.3000.  The members, from
	death and withdrawal, are now so few, and it has become so un-
	popular, that its dissolution would be judicious, with due respect,
	however, to the rights of those having claims on it for relief.  This
	measure has been, indeed, loudly demanded by most of the sub-
	scribers for these few years past, when the distribution of the fund
	amongst them would have been so very seasonable; and it seems
	difficult to conceive upon what principle it can be expediently or
	equitably resisted.
           Temperance Societies.-Temperance societies have been esta-
	blished, but seem supererogatory in a country, on the whole, re.
        markable for sobriety; their tendency is certainly to produce
	good, mainly by their indirect effect in leading people seriously
	to reflect on the imprudence of indulgence in stimulating beve-
	rages.
	   Hospitality is a virtue of which my countrymen may be proud
	of the reputation.  Long may they cherish the sentiment, as just
	as it is noble, that the visited, is more honoured than the visitor.
	In the majority of cases, the favour lies most truly not on the
	side of the guest, but on that of the host; and in a country where
	inns can hardly be said to exist, kindness to strangers becomes a
	sacred, duty, which no temporary inconvenience can cancel.
	   Cottars.--There are few British cottars who have at their com-
	mand, in ordinary seasons, and with common industry, a greater varie-


