
38                            HADDINGTONSHIRE.

			    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-Dunbar and Haddington, the former seven,
the latter nine miles distant, are the market-towns chiefly resorted
to, although the town of North Berwick and the village of Linton
are both nearer.
   Means of Communication.-- The nearest post-office is Preston-
kirk, a distance of three miles and a-half. The great road from
Edinburgh to London passes through the south end of the parish;
and a number of public carriages, at different hours, ply daily on
that road. The turnpike road from Dunbar to North Berwick,
passes for about four miles through the middle of the parish; and
the only considerable bridge, the bridge across the Tyne, is on
this line of road.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The Gospel was introduced into East Lo-
thian in the sixth century. St Baldred, the disciple of Kentigern
or St Mungo, being the first Christian Apostle, fixed his cell at
Tynninghame, where a monastery was afterwards erected, but his
pious labours extended far and wide,-the boundaries of his pasto-
ral care being thus described by Simeon of Durham, "Tota ter-
ra quae pertinet ad monasterium sancti Baltheri quod vocatur
Tyningham a Lambermore usque ad Escemuthe," so that his minis-
try embraced the whole IEVH of the county., from Lammermoor to
Inveresk.  All accounts concur in representing this early and zeal-
ous propagator of the Christian faith as being held in extreme ve-
neration when living; and several of the conterminous parishes are
said to have contended for his body when be was dead.  But we
leave the miracles ascribed to St Baldred, and the stories about his
boat and cradle, (rocks on the shore and within sea mark) to those
who are inclined to clear the obscurities, and investigate the le-
gends of the sixth century.  Suffice it to say of him, what Arch-
bishop Spottiswood says of his instructor, St Mungo, "That he
appean to have been a man worthy to have been a subject of truth
to poeterity, not of fables and fictions, as the legends of monks
have made him." He died in the year 606.  And of, the Dane, spoil-

<FOOTNOTE>mutton, sixteen pieces; veal, four pieces; venison, three legs; geese, six; pigs, four;
old turkeys, two; young turkeys, eight; salmon, four; tongues and udders, twelve ,
ducks, fourteen; fowls, six roasted; fowls, boiled, nine; roasted chickens, thirty;
stewed chickens, twelve; fricassed chickens, eight; chickens in pottage, ten; lamb,
two sides; wild fowl, twenty-two; pigeons baked, roasted, and stewed, one hundred
and eighty two; roosted hares, ten; fricassed hares, six; hams, three." Such was
the dinner. For supper there were roast muston, two pieces; mutton in collops, two
pieces; roasted pigeons, twenty-six; bares, six; ale, sixteen gallons; rolls, an hundred;
loaves, a hundred and twenty four.


