
54                      FIFESHIRE.

    Ecclesiastical State.-The Earl of Mansfield is patron; and this
right is derived to him from Mr Andrew Murray, one of his ances-
tors, who was minister here, and also patron. He was a person of
eminence in the church, and gained the favour of Charles I. by the
discretion and authority with which he acted in the General As-
sembly at Glasgow, 1638. He came to the peerage as Lord Bal-
vaird in 1641, but was prohibited by the Assembly from bearing
improper titles. Perhaps, like Archbishop Leighton, he did not
think the pompous title of my Lord would add anything to the dig-
nity of his character. He died on the 4th September 1644, the
third year after his elevation.
    The church was built in 1827. It may accommodate 500 or
600. It is a plain substantial building, planned by Burn, and cost
about L. 1200. The manse was built in 1721. The offices are
new.
   By a locality dated 1650, the stipend, called there the mortified
rent of the parish, was at that time 55 bolls bear; 83 bolls meal
and oats; and L. 133, 6s. 8d. Scots. It is now 15 ebalders, half
meal and half barley, paid by the fiars of the county, with L. 10 -
vicarage, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. The old grebe
is four acres arable in extent. The grass glebe consists of six acres
in arable meadow pasture. There was a long litigation about it, first
before the Court of Session, and then carried by appeal to the
House of Lords. It terminated in favour of the minister in 1815.
The people are in general regular in their habits, and well affect-
ed to the constitution, both in church and state. Only four or
five families are Seceders.
    Education.-The parish school is attended by 30 scholars in
summer, and about 40 or 50 in winter. They are taught chiefly
reading, 2s. per quarter; writing, 2s. 6d.; and arithmetic, 3s.
The schoolmaster's salary is the maximum, and his whole income
is L. 50 a-year. There is also at present a school taught by a fe-
male, attended by a few girls. Several of the children are very
near the schools at Newburgh, Dunbog, and Collessie, and attend
there. Teachers complain that children do not remain at school

<FOOTNOTE>Dougla's Peerage. Inscription on the church bell: "Joannes Burgherhuys me fecit,
1671. Soli Deogloris. Mr Alexander Balfour, minister there, of the parish of Ebde."  These words
me ficit, seem to indicate that superstitious regard to bells which prevailed in former
times, (Christian Observer Protestant.) And even now it is well known, that, in
Roman Catholic Countries,they are solemly baptized and consecrated as if intelligent
agents; and if rung with suffient force, are thought  to have   great influence in ba-
mishing evil spirits, and in relieving from the pains of purgatory.


