
946                           FIFESHIRE.

ash and elm, are stately size.  There are also a few in and
around the churchyard, of ash, aycamore, and elm, on which
crows find a plce to build.  But in general the soil is considered
too valuable for agricultural puposes, to tempt any one tp plant
trees, unless around his domicil.e.
     Quarries and Mines.--Freestone for ordinary purposes may be
found in amost quarter of the parish, so that few farmers re-
quire to go for stones beyond their own lands.  At Craighead,
Newhall, and Kingsmuir, stones may be found suited to the finest
operations of masonry.  Ironstone is also abundant, and frequently
exported from the harbour of Crail. Lime has been wrought to a
great extent upon the borough muir, as the remains of the work
still testify.  The only work of that description now in operation
is at Troustrie, and occasionally at Newhall.
     There are many indications of coals having been dug here at
an early period; and only a few years ago  Robert Inglis, Esq.
had an extensive work upon his estate of Kirkmay, with a steam-
engine for pumping out the water--but he gave it up.  And at
present, unless at times on Kingsmuir, coals are raised only for
burning lime, though there is not the least doubt that many seems
remain untouched.
     Fire and common clays are dug in great abundance on the es-
tate og Kirkmay, where a brick and tile work has been carried on
for a long time.  Fire-clay bricks and chimney cans are manufac-
tured here and exported to Arbroath, Dundee, and other towns
to a considerable extent.

                       II. CIVIL HISTORY.
     Seat and Residences.-- Almost all the baronial shodes have
been suffered to fall into decay or ruin, and some of them are now
only known by name.  At the southern extremity of this parish
an old house with vaultesd cellars, and rooms above, occupied by
farm-servants, is the chief remain of the extensive mansion of the
Cunninghams of Barns.  Here , about 1620, the poet and historian,
Drummond of Hawthornden, is understood to have written his cel-
lebrated Polemo-Middinia, or Battle of the Dunghill--a humorous
poem in doggerel Latin, giving a satirical description of a real or
an imaginary quarrel between the LAdy of Barns and one of her
neighbours.  Here he tuned that lyre, (which he afterwards ad-
dressed in melancholy strains,) to the full enjoyment of a lively
imaginations and buoyant spirits.  Here he may be said to have
enjoyed the happiest period of his life.  And here his feelings re-




