
642                        AYRSHIRE.

of the above, General Stuart of Stair, Mungo Smith of Dron-
gan, and the incumbent, who died in 1804, in his ninety-fifth
year, and sixty-ninth of is ministry,) is chiefly to be ascribed
the rapid improvement of agriculture in this place, and the
great increase of the value of their own estates."* Sir William
has, all along, taken a lively interest in these objects, though he
has not bestowed that degree of personal superintendence for
which his father was so remarkable. A very high and just enco-
mium was passed on him lately from the Bench, by the Lord Justice-
Clerk (Boyle), upon the occasion of his retiring from office in
the College of Justice which he (under the title of Lord Glen-
lee) had held for forty-five years, and which encomium was en-
tered on the journals of the Court.
	Land-owners.--The heritors, according to their valuation,
are as follows:--Sir William Miller, Bart. of Barskimming;
Smith, Esq. of Drongan; John Hamilton, Esq.; the Earl of Stair;
Messrs Morison of Tribboch Mains, and Meadowbank; John Ha-
milton, Esq. of Wright Hill and Drumdow; Claud, Alexander,
Esq. of Burn and Lawhill; Mrs Reid of Keyshill; James Heron,
sq. of Dalmore.
	There is no property in the parish whose annual value does not
exceed L. 50.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest parochial register is of date
1736; the early part not very correctly kept. A register of births
and marriages has been kept since 1805, and one of deaths since
1815.
	Antiquities.--On the property of Tribboch Mains, there are
the remains of a tower, which was in all probability the resi-
dence of the proprietor of the adjoining barony of Tribboch,
lying chiefly in the parish of Ochiltree. The walls are of
great thickness, and slits are the only openings. On remov-
ing a cairn which stood on an adjoining knoll, a grave cut out
of the solid rock was found covered with flag, and containing
blackish dust and some beads. There is a similar structure, but
of larger dimensions, on the farm of Drougan Mains, the walls
of which were till lately almost entire. It was the residence of a
family of the name of Crawfurd, from at least 1404 till 1623, when
it passed into the, hands of the Crawfords of Lochmorris.
	Modern Buildings.--Barskimming is a large and elegant man.

<FOOTNOTE>Old Account.


