
262			  AYRSHIRE.

the means of internal communication. Lime is very generaly now
applied to the soul, and in considerable quantities; but the distance,
(from four to eight miles) and in some cases the badness of the
roads, render it a very costly application. Sea-weed is pretty
abundant, but the right to it belongs exclusively to lands adjoining
to the sea shore, each property, too, being confined to its own
boundary. The quickness with which this substance dissolves, re-
quires its instant application to the soul or admixture into compost
on its being cast ashore; but from the former wretchedness of the
roads, and it may be indolence of the elder husbandmen, the prac-
tice has generally been to deposit it near the beach until it was
greatly reduced, often to not a third of its original quantum, that
the labour of carting it might be abridged! More correct ideas of
this, however, begin to prevail, and a better course to be followed,
all being now satisfied of the great loss sustained by such neglect.
The grain crops raised here are,--wheat, oats, barley, and a little
rye along the sea-shore, of pulse, beans, pease, and, to a limited
extent, tares. The green crops are, potatoes, turnips and carrots.
Though of late years the cultivation of wheat has been carried to
an imprudent extent, the quantity sown still bears but a small pro-
portion to that of oats, perhaps not more than as one to four.
Wheat is very liable to disease and injury here. The climate is
too humid, and consequently cold, as the soil is perhaps of too
feeble a stamina to admit of this fine grain ever being extensively
or profitably cultivated in this neighbourhood. Oats, on the con-
trary, thrive exceedingly well, and their straw is superior to all
others as fodder for the dairy cows; yet it is remarked, that an
equal luxuriance in the growth of the crop here does not realize
an equal return of grain with soils of a more clayish nature, and
the seed requires more frequently to be renewed. The barley
tribes are likewise pretty congenial to this locality, though for a
good while past their cultivation has been very limited. But they
will probably soon be more appreciated and attended to, barley
being a much easier crop, and more suitable than any other grain
for sowing down for pasture. Beans, especially in the drill mode,
succeed extremely well on even very light land, and are cultivated
to a considerable extent; but peas are of difficult management,
albeit for poor dry soils they seem not ill suited, and often produce
good returns; the quantity sown is but trifling. Potatoes are not
nearly so well adapted to feeble spongy soils as turnips,--a circum-
stance which is every year being made more apparent in the cul-


