
                                   CONTIN.                       241

      ings fetch the highest prices at market. We may particularize
      the farm of Acnashine, belonging to Mr Mackenzie of Kilcoy,
      the stock of which when exhibited at competitions has repeatedly
      obtained premiums ; likewise Leadgowan, the property of Mr
      Mackenzie of Hilton, * and wbich is also well known as a sheep
      walk of superior value.
        The few black cattle reared for sale are the remains of the
      old Highland breed, which seems to have degenerated in the same
      ratio in which the circumstances of the people have declined.
        Leases vary in their duration from four to nineteen years; and
      it naturally follows that the tenants who receive the longest leases
      improve their farms most. All the arable farms are furnished with
      suitable houses and inclosures.
        Recent Improvements.-The principal recent improvement in
      this parish is at Craigdarroch, where Captain James Murray of
      the Royal Navy has erected a beautiful residence within a short walk
      of Loch Achilty. The house is a substantial and comfortable
      building, and stands in a romantic situation, commanding a view
      of the lake and surrounding scenery. The garden and grounds
      have been laid out with great taste ; and a track of barren moor
      has been, by persevering industry and judicious outlay, converted
      into productive soil.
        Fishing.-The salmon-fishings of Connon and Rasay are the
      only two in the parish. The quality of the fish caught in each is
      superior; and both may be worth about L. 40 a-year.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Town.-Dingwall, which is distant seven miles, is the
      nearest market-town,-none of the villages in the parish being of
      sufficient size to support a market. The Parliamentary road to
      Lochcarron passes through the parish from east to west. There
      are likewise district roads. The post-town is Dingwall.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The chnrch of Contin has always stood
      where it is now, on the minister's glebe, within two miles of the
      eastern extremity of the parish. It would seem to have been ori-
      ginally placed there, from the vicinity being better suited than any

      <FOOTNOTE>Having mentioned the honoured name of Alexander Mackenzie, Esq. of Hilton,
      we do no more than discharge a debt to justice, in paying a short but sincere tribute
      to his genuine worth and to his unequalled character as a proprietor. It has been
      uniformly his desire, that his tenants should enjoy comfort and happiness ; and under
      his fostering care they failed not to prosper. In him too the virtuous poor and friend-
      lea ever	found a	benefactor. All who occupied his soil regarded him as a father and
      a friend.

         ROSS AND CROMARTY.                          2


