
     of Longforgan.

   Lint.-The inhabitants of Longforgan have been remark-
ably successful for many years in raising great crops of lint.
Their practice in this particular, is well worth imitation.
They water their lint grounds with their dung-water and
cow wash; but it must be done in rainy weather, to prevent
this essence of dung from burning up the crop.  This mode
may be used to great advantage upon grass-grounds and has
been tried this year by a farmer in this parish, upon four
acres of wheat, and upon as much lint, and the appearance
between the acres so watered, and the rest of the same field, is
most remarkably in favour of the former; and Mr. Paterson
is so convinced of the advantage of this practice, that he has
constructed a cart for this purpose, upon the same principle
with those carts used in watering the streets of London.
   A large cask (a butt) is fixed upon shafts, with a set of
low wheels, (old coach-wheels), for convenience of filling.
In one end a hole is made of about two inches diameter, to
which a square conductor is fixed, the middle part about
6 inches long, with an opening of 2 1/2 inches square, coming
right outwards, and from which a transverse arm of the
same dimensions, and about 3 feet in length, is fixed close
at both ends, but the fore part covered with a plate of iron,
full of holes; and to guide the flow of this dung-water, a
plug is titted to the hole in the head of the cask, with its
greatest end inwards; through its body a strong cord passes,

<FOOTNOTE>

tion; and added, that, at any time, he could make the curt by planting the
feed too deep, or in wet poached ground; and yet, in the same field which
a farmer in this district had let out to the neighbouring villagers, every
man's proportion could have been known from the healthiness of the plant,
or the contrary; what could this be owing to, if not to the variety of the
feed?  These observations may be worth attending to.  This disease has
never been observed amongst the yams.  As it is of the utmost consequence
to introduce such kinds of food for bestial, as may as little as possible en-
crunch upon the accessories of life for man, it is hoped the length of this
article will be excused.


