
			    KINNOULL.                           945

kirk-session, willingly undertakes the task of instructing ruch gra-
tuitously. There are several Sabbath schools in the parish, that
in the central part being conducted by the parochial teacher and
the minister, and having upwards of 100 scholars in attendance.
   National Security Savings Banks.--One of these useful in-
stitutions exists in Perth; and it is noticed here, on account
of its benefits being as immediately available to the inhabitants
of this parish as to the adjoining city, where it has its head office.
Although established under the sanction of the more recent le-
gislative enactments, no farther back than 1839, with a capital of
L,3032, the sum at the credit of depositors at November 1842,
amounted to no less than L.35,254, showing an increase in the
course of four years of L.32,222; the number of depositors in-
creasing in the same period from 859 to 2800. These results fur-
nish evidence of perhaps a greater proportional measure of success
than distinguishes any similar institution in the country, that of
Edinburgh excepted.
   It is conducted under the superintendence of a very numerous
and highly influential body of trustees and managers, and its be-
nefits extend to the country as well as to the city, the branches or
receiving-houses being six in number. The important fact, that
it continues to grow in the estimation and confidence of those for
whose benefit it w`s specially Intended, is proved by the details
given in last annual report, which make it evident that it is chiefly
resorted to by the labouring classes, and is, in truth, what it pro-
fesses to be,--" the Working Man's Bank." Notwithstanding the
late depression in trade and manufactures, the increase on deposits
during the last year was L.4914. At the same time, there is little
doubt that its beneficial operation is in no small degree hindered
by the number and proximity of licensed alehouses, to which cir-
cumstance, some measure of the poverty and want of domestic
economy and comfort here occasionally observable in the families
of the working-classes, may be traced. The evil has of late been
sought to be lessened by an annual representation from the kirk-
session, to the Justices of the Peace, at the time of granting li-
censes. The fact of such endeavours having been encouraged,
and so far rendered effectual, is gratefully recorded.
   James Murray's Royal Asylum for Lunatics.--To the benevo-
lence of Mr James Murray, a native of the parish of Perth, the
public are indebted for this splendid institution, which is ad-
mitted to be one of the best conducted in the kingdom. A short,

        PERTH.                                  3o


