
     Statistical Account

all his mental faculties.  The evening before he died, he was
seen drinking at the well, as usual; but, though his practice
had prevented disease, it could not fave him from the hand of
death.  He retired to his cell, and in the morning was found
dead in his bed.  A few shillings, sufficient to defray the ex-
pence of interment, were got, in an old rag beside him.  He
exacted a promise of the minister of the parish, that no man,
after him, should occupy the hut.  About this, he discover-
ed an anxiety, not be accounted for.  The day he was buried,
the hut was demolished.  It would not, indeed, have been easy to
have found a new occupant, for the whole inside of this solitary
habitation was lined with the fragments of coffins, brought
from the church-yard, year after year, as repairs were needed.

   Church.-The church of Glenorchay, outwardly, appears a
decent building.  Within, though far from elegant, it is nei-
ther uncomfortable nor incommodious.  Its situation is com-
manding, and centrical for the people.  It is to be regretted,
that places appropriated to the public worship of God, should
not be rendered suitable to a service so sacred and so impor-
tant.  The magnificent temples of the heathen world indicat-
ed a becoming reverence for the objects of their worship.
The church of Rome, the church of England, and the several
separatists from our own establishment, are careful to have
such places, as are consecrated to the service of the Universal
Parent, made decent and comfortable:  whilst, with us of the
church of Scotland, many of our country kirks, are such dark,
damp, and dirty hovels, as chill and repress every sentiment
of devotion.  They, besides, endanger the health of every class
of worshippers, and encourage the indifferent and the indolent,
in their neglect of institutions, with the stated observance of
which, moral obligation itself, and the public and private hap-
piness of man, are so much and so immediately connected.

     6


