
136                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

rish and neighbouring district of the country may be acceptable
to the reader.

              Symphytum officinale, common com-
                frey, road-side to the south of Dun-
                tarvie.
              Adoxa moschatellina, tuberous-rooted
                moschatel, near an old mill, on the
                banks of the Almond, Clifton Hall.
              Euphorhia exigua, in corn-fields, to the
                northeast of Carlowrie.
              Lychnis viscaria, viscous catch-fly, on
                Dundas, Hill.
              Potentilla argentea, silvery cinquefoil, on
                Craig Brae, Dundas.
              Scutellaria galericulata, common skull-
                cap, on Dundas Hill.
              Malva moschata, marsh-mallow, on the
                banks of the Almond.
              Genista tinctoria, dyer's broom, on Drum-
                shoreland Muir.
              Hypericum humifusum, trailing St
                John's wort, in a plantation on the
                east of Craig Brae.
              Pilularia globulifera, pepper grass, at
                Philpston Loch.
              Ophioglossum vulgatum, adder's tongue,
                on Drumshoreland Muir.
              Asplenium trichomanes, common maiden-
                hair spleenwort, in Newliston woods.
              Asplenium ruta muraria, wall rue, in
                Newliston woods.

                             FUNGI.
              Agaricus procerus, tall mushroom, at
                Carlowrie.
              Agaricus cristatus, at Foxhall.
              Cantharellus cibarius, truffle, at Foxhall.
              Helvella mitra, at Foxhall,
              ---------leucophea, at Foxhall.
              Morchella esculenta, common eatable
                morelle, at Foxhall.
              Morchella hyhrida, at Foxhall.

In the garden of Carlowrie, the property of David Falconar,
Esq. there is a large and beautiful collection of rare plants.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Eminent Men.-Among eminent characters connected with the
parish, may be mentioned Skene of Hallyards, unhappily distinguish-
ed by his zeal in persecuting the Covenanters.-Reid, who suffer-
ed in their cause the celebrated John, Earl of Stair, who inhe-
rited from his mother the estate of Newliston.-Andrew Dalzel,
Professor of Greek in the University of Edinburgh,-and the Right
Honourable Sir Robert Liston, lately deceased.  Respecting Pro-
fessor Dalzel, it may be worthy of remark, that he was the son of
a man distinguished by his knowledge of agriculture, who came to
this parish at the special desire of the Earl of Stair, when he, on
returning from public life, was beginning to direct his attention to
the improvement of fiis estate; and under his direction, the mode
of ploughing in common use in the low countries, viz. by two horses
or two oxen, was adopted on his Lordship's estate, in room of the
old Scoteh mode of ploughing, viz. by six, or eight, or sometimes
twelve oxen.  Under his superintendence, likewise, the first ex-
ample Scotland was given on the estate of Newliston, of the
planting of cabbages, potatoes and turnips in th fields.  The
mother of the Professr was a daughter of the proprietor of Linns
Mill, the south-western extremity of the parish, now part of the
estate of Clifton Hall.  Andrew Dalzel, and Sir Robert Liston,
so deservedly eminent for his ability and success in diplomatic ser-


