
     Statistical Account

   Extent and Rent.-The length of Urr parish, from the
march of Kirkpatrick-Durham, nearly from N. to S., is at
least 13 Scotch miles.  The breadth varies, and at its greatest
extent somewhat exceeds 4 miles.  The number of acres the
parish contains, is nearly 12,000; and though this estimate is
given partly from acquaintance with the actual surveys of
some of the larger estates, and partly from computation, it
will be found to differ but little from reality.  The gross rent
yielded by this tract of land is at present 4,446 L.; nor is it ex-
travagant, whilst the present peace and prosperity of the coun-
try remain undiminished.  The valued rent of Urr, or the
rule by which it pays the land-tax, is something more than
5,000 L. Scotch; and, in the reign of Charles I., this was pro-
bably an adequate rent for the whole parish.  It may here
with truth be observed, that at present, through all Galloway,
100 L. Scotch of valued rent, implies 100 L. Sterling of real
rent; and, in the generality of instances, a good deal more.

   River and Fish.-From Loch Urr*, where the river so called
arises, to the Isle of Heston (where the stream is lost in the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Here it may not be altogether improper to glance at a small controversy
subsisting betwixt certain respectable antiquaries.  It has been commonly as-
serted that Sir CHRISTOPHER SEATON, the faithful companion of WALLACE,
was killed, or taken prisoner, at a place called LOCH ORE, in Fife.  The existence
of a chapel at Dumfries, erected for the very purpose of saying masses for his
soul, led some people also to think, that though Sir Christopher was apprehend-
ed in Fife, yet he was put to death at Dumfries.  Now the fact is, that at Loch
Whur, or Loch Orr, in the stewartry of Galloway, and around the loch, the
Seaton family had a castle and a very large domain.  At this day the land-hold-
ers, in that neighbourhood, have most, of the old investitures of their estates
from the Seatons.  Sir JOHN SEATON of Barnes seems to have sold the re-
mains of the family property in Galloway, so late as the year 1596.  That the
gallant Sir Christopher Seaton lost his life upon the eve of Bruce's coming to


