
712                        ARGYLESHIRE.

district around manifesting a strong feeling in their behalf, it was
considered unsafe to allow them to remain there, and they were
in consequence conveyed to Blackness Castle.  From thence Sir
Colin was conveyed under a strong guard to Edinburgh, for trial
before the parliament on the charges just mentioned, and also for
harbouring Presbyterian ministers. "After the most exact in-
quiry nothing of moment was evidently proven against him; how-
ever, his trouble continued a good while, because in principle he
was against Prelacy, and did not swear the test." *
  It may be interesting to state, that Mr John Munro, who had
been Presbxteriau minister of the parish, went to Ireland upon
the breaking out of the troubles under Charles II., and became
pastor of a congregation in Antrim, but returned again to his
charge as soon as the Presbyterian church government was restored.
He afterwards, to the great regret of the people, accepted of a
call to Rothesay, and died there in 1696. "He was very useful,"
says a contemporary minister, who was well acquainted with him,
"to our synod, as he was to the whole Church, being a man of a
public spirit, and fit to deal with quality." During Mr Munro's
absence the parish was supplied by several Episcopalian incum-
bents.
  Archdeacon Lindsay first became minister, but was soon after-
wards translated to Inverary. After the Revolution, he conform-
ed to the Presbyterian discipline, and died minister of Kilchrenan.
To him succeeded Archdeacon M'Lean, who was translated from
Dunoon in 1686. He also, though with obvious reluctance, con-
formed to the Presbyterian discipline, and became minister of Kil-
bride in Arran. He was repeatedly reproved in public for negli-
gence in attending church courts, and finally dermitted his charge,
and removed to Ireland. +
  Eminent Men.--The writer of the last Statistical Account, Dr
MacDougall, a native of the parish, may be mentioned as a per-
son of great abilities and attainments, as indeed his Statistical Ac-
count shovs. His talents for business rendered him useful not
olnly in the inferior courts of the Church, but also in the General
Assembly.
  Land-owners.--These, according to the extent of their respec-
tive properties, are, James Henry Callander, Esq. of. Craigforth
and Ardkinglas; Archibald Douglas, Esq. of Glenfinnert; Mrs
Campbell of Drimsynie; and John Campbell, Esq. of Strachur.

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow.            Records of Synod of Argyle.


