
734               EDINBURGHSHIRE.

on each side tend to confine the air and impede thorough clean-
liness; yet even here ventilation is good from the elevated situa-
tion of the ridge on which the principal part of the old town is
built. The contiguity of the sea renders the temperature mild,-
snow rarely lies long in the vicinity, and the winters are on an
average mild, though variable. The most trying season for inva-
lids is spring; when a chill, dry east wind prevails for nearly two
months. Summer and autumn are usually fine, with a less pro-
portion of rain than on the coasts of Scotland.
   The modern police regulations of the city are so complete as
respects cleanliness, that the ancient reproach of the filthi-
ness of the Scottish capital is now entirely removed. As re-
spects the domestic cleanliness and comforts of the lower classes
in the old town, however, much is still wanting-a more ample
supply of water and public conveniences. In this locality, too, the
houses are by far too crowded and too high, by which system many
of the comforts of dwellings for the poor are precluded. Some
idea of the crowded state of the poorer classes may be formed
from the fact, that many of the large tenements of the old town
contain from 100 to 150 inmates, a whole family being crowded
into an apartment not more than twelve or fourteen feet square.
   Immediately surrounding the city, there is also a nuisance in
the irrigated meadows inconsistent with the purity of the at-
mosphere. These meadows, which extend eastward from
Holyroodhouse, in a low lying plain, by Restalrig onwards to the
sea side, are irrigated by the water collected from the common
sewers, and kept in a constantly stagnant state, for the purpose of
increasing their fertility. By this means very abundant crops of
grass are produced constantly throughout the year; but at the
same time a damp, vapoury, pestilent morass is thus constantly
keept up, the odour from which is peculiarly offensive during the
summer months. Although on investigation no direct cases of dis-
ease have been traced to this marsh effluvia among the inmates of the
few Scattered dwellings which are in its more immediate neigh-
bourhood, yet probably we owe this immunity to the elevated si-
tuation of the ground of the city, by which the emanations from
the irrigated meadows are immediately diluted with a large
current of pure air, more than to the perfectly innocuous nature of
the exhalations themselves. At all events, as an offensive nuisance,
they are a drawback to the purity of the city atmosphere. Si-
milar irrigated grounds extend to the westward of the city; and the


