
106                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

dual entered the sanctuary, old or young, rich or poor, master or ser-
vant, who did not previously cast his mite into the treasury. This
laudable custom, however, proper and becoming as it is, has fallen
very much with many into disuse. On the other hand, that reluc-
tance to make application, or to receive assistance from the church,
which was once so remarkable in Scotland, is here, as in other places
around, fast disappearing, and, with some honourable exceptions,
is almost extinct. The receipt of parish aid does not appear to
be regarded as any degradation, either by the recipients or by those
connected with them; and, indeed, this claims for admission upon
the roll, are generally more than can with propriety be admitted.
Necessity; however, it is believed, is the great impelling cause of
such applications.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There is no proper inn in the parish
there are, however, 8 public-houses, 7 of which are in the village
of Ratho. This number is considerably greater than the amount of
the population would justify. Their influence upon the habits of the
people has never been considered of a beneficial kind. The practice,
however, which is every day getting more prevalent, of sending for
spirits, and drinking them in private houses, is infinitely more de-
moralizing, as in the latter case, the wives and children of the
drinkers are not only witnesses to the evil, but participators in
the sin. Every drunkard becomes thus the corrupter of his whole
household.
   Fuel.-Coals are our chief, it may be said our only fuel. Since
the Canal was opened, our supply of that article has been derived
chiefly from the Duke of Hamilton's pits at Niddry, in the parish
of Polmont. The price which,three years ago, used to be as low
as 9s. and 10s., has varied last year, from 11s. to 15s. per ton.
These coals burn well, but are rather dusty, the ashes being white
and very light. A small quantity is still brought from Benhar,
whence the parish was formerly supplied almost entirely. The
Benhar coals are generally considered of somewhat superior quali-
ty, but the extreme length of the carriage, the distance being
eighteen miles, has thrown them much into disuse in this quarter.

   October 1839.


