
   188              	INVERNESS-SHIRE.

  	               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      Land-owners.--The only land-owners are Ranald G. Macdo-
   nald, Esq. of Clanranald ; Hugh Macdonald, Esq. of Boisdale;
   and Ranald Macdonald, Esq. of Bornish.
      Parochial Registers.--There was not a parochial register kept
   of the births and marriages among the Protestant population, till
   within the last two years.  Two-thirds of the population are Ro-
   man Catholics; and, without an act of Parliament, it is impossible
   to keep a regular register of the whole population in a parish so
   circumstanced.
      Antiquities.-In the island of Benbecula, there was a nunnery
   on the farm now called Nuntown.  The building was taken down,
   and the stones used in the building of Clanranald's mansion and
   office-houses.  About two miles to the north of the site of the
   nunnery, on a farm called Bailivanich, or the farm of the monks,
   still stand the remains of the monastery on a small islet in a lake.
   There are also at Benbecula, on the west side, the remains of an old
   castle named Caistal Bhuirbh, or the Castle of Borve, a very an-
   cient building, the residence of tbe lairds of Benbecula in ancient
   times.  There is no tradition in regard to the time or person by
   whom it was built.  In Loch Druidibeg, one of the lakes already
   mentioned, is an islet or rock, on which appear the remains of a
   building, evidently erected in ancient times as a place of refuge from
   barbarous incursions.  There is also on a small islet in a lake near
   Hoghmore, where the parish church is to be built, a small square
   building almost entire, named Caistal Eilen bheg r-m, signifying
   the castle in the island of small dimensions, in which the captain of
   Clanranald resided with his family of old, when he dreaded inva-
   sion from his neighbouring foes.  There was on a rock of consider-
   able elevation, in a small island in the southern extremity of the
   parisb, near Eriscay, and opposite to Barra, a very ancient build-
   ing, named Caistal a Bhrebider, or the Weaver's Castle, a part of
   which still stands, and which, as it was built on a rock of consider-
   able elevation, is still a conspicuous object at the distance of a
   few miles.  A part of the wall lately fell.  A better place for de-
   fence could scarcely have been selected.
      Modern Buildings.--The modern buildings are, two churches
   or chapels in the missionary districts of Benbecula and Boisdale :
   --three chapels built by, and at the expense of, the Roman Catho-
   lic population ; also,--it may be stated in the account of a parish
   like this,--three farm-houses, erected within the last five years,


