
254                        LANARKSHIRE.

a flood destroyed 400 faxnilies. Grey, in his Chronicle, mentions
another great spate on 25th and 26th November 1454, which
brought down "hale housis, barnis, and millis," and obliged the
inhabitants of Garion, near Dalserf, to take to their house-tops.
To escape such catastrophes, the principal part of the Netherton
stood on a high ground which the Clyde never inundated; and it
was probably the fright which the above-mentioned flood occasion-
ed that caused Lord Hamilton, the year following, to remove the
Collegiate Church to the place where Hamilton Palace now stands.
On the 12th of March 1782, the flood was nearly two feet higher
than was ever remembered before; and the river rnse about sixteen
feet perpendicular above the ordinary level of low water. It over-
flowed a great tract of country, and appeared like an arm of the sea.
The date of this flood, and the height of the water, are recorded
on Hamilton Bridge. In the autumn of 1807, another great spate
carried off a vast quantity of grain, then standing in the stook, and
swept away the two centre arches of Hamilton Bridge. On the
9th February 1831, on the melting of the snow, the Clyde rose
at Blantyre Mills to the height of twelve feet nine inches above its
usual level; and at Hamilton Bridge it was within six inches of the
flood-mark of 1782.
	Besides the Clyde, the course of which has already been de-
scribed, the parish is traversed by the Avon, (an old British word
which signifies the "water,") and nine smaller streamlets or burns,
six of which fall into the Avon, and three into the Clyde. All of
these have their origin in the high grounds in the west and south-
west of the parish. By time and perseverance (like their mightier
chief the Clyde,) they have forced their way through great chasms
in the sandstone rocks, forming magnificent heughs or ravines of
great magnitude, infinitely varied, and richly wooded. These con-
stitute part of the "beauties of Scotland," of which a stranger pas-
sing along the highway knows and sees but little. The Avon rises
on the west, near the boundary line between the parish of Strath-
avon and the county of Ayr. After running for many miles through
a pastoral country, and the better cultivated tracts of Avondale and
Stonehouse, it enters the parish of Hamilton, at Millheugh Bridge.
About half a mile onwards, it is at length engulfed in a stupen-
dous and rocky defile, equal in grandeur, variety, and picturesque
effects to the finest scenery of the kind in Britain. It bears no in-
considerable resemblance to the celebrated banks at Roslin, near
Edinburgh, but is finer, and on a more majestic scale. In many
                                  1


