
6			    ARGYLESHIRE.

soil of the intervening field is, indeed, gravelly, and such as either
the river or the sea might form; butif, at any former period, the sea
entered into the basin which the Douloch occupies, it must have been
remote; and the trees, which were planted near 200 years ago, from
one beach to the other, show that there have been no recent changes.
The river, which communicates between this lake and Lochfyne,
is called Gear-ambuinn, or short river, and is the channel of fresh
and salt water alternately, regulated by the flowing and ebbing of
the tide.  It is tenanted by abundance of salmon, trout, white fish,
&c. ; and the common crab, with other sea fish, have been fre-
quently found in it. Salmon-trout, herring, cod, and flounders,
&c. are often taken here in the same net. There are also many
mountain lakes in the parish, wbich abound in fish. The most
remarkable of these are in the hill of Killian, and their banks are
generally clothed with the white water-lily.
   The two principal streams which flow into Lochfyne in this pa-
rish issue from the two valleys of Glenshira and Glenaray. The
former of these, called the Shira, rises in Benbui, Stranmore, and
the mountains boundidg the parish on the east, about nine Miles
from its confluence with the sea. During the first five miles of
its course, it, as well as its tributary streams, make their way
through narrow passes, and over rocks of great height, cutting
deep into the soft schistus, through which they may be half seen
from their steep and wooded banks, rushing along in foaming
torrents and falls, often of great height and beauty. The
rather of the present Duke of Argyle made a carriage-road to
some of the most remarkable of these. In the latter part of its
course, the Shira is peaceful, winding its way gently through the
valley until it enters the Douloch, to be immediately discharged
into the sea if it be ebb-tide, or to be stemmed for a time in its
course if it be near high-water. The tide affects the river two
miles from the sea ; and in wet weather, much injury is done to
the surrounding crops by the waters thus stemmed overflowing
their banks.
   The Aray is the other stream. It gives its own name to the
glen through which it runs, as well as to the parish. It rises in
the mountains above Lochawe, and, after a course of eight miles
through a picturesque and beautiful valley, enters the sea near the
burgh. Its bed is rugged, and broken by several falls, two of
which are of -considerable height. One of these is a mile and a-
				1


