
                            LECROPT.                         1161

     From the bank at  Lecropt, there is one of the finest prospects
     in this part of the island.  The Forth, the Teath, And the Allan
     unite their streams, and form the largest river in North Britain
     in the champaign country, on the southern borders of the parish.
     Their banks clad with the richest crops, the snug steadings of farms,
     the hedges neatly trimmed, and the lofty trees, through which
     the smoke ascends  from dwellings, beautify and enrich the scene.
     On the opposite side of this fertile valley, the castle of Stirling
     rears its head in rude magnificence on the summit of a rock.
     The huge rock of Craigforth on the one side of the castle, and the
     Abbey craig on the other, form, with the castle itself, three vast
     and detached piles, about the distance of a mile from each other;
     and look down on an extensive tract of flat country.  The tower
     of the abbey of Cambuskenneth, where the ashes of the weak and
     unfortunate James III. rest in peace ; the stately bridge of Stir-
     ling through which the Forth holds his majestic course to the
     ocean; his long circuitous links, through innumerable farms and
     thriving villages; and the sloops sailing along these links in all
     directions, amidst trees and houses, gratify the eye, and delight
     the mind with the appearances of industry and wealth.
                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
       Antiquities.--An artificial eminence, on the east side of this
     parish, seems to have been a post of the Romans, near their great
     road to Ardoch.  Kier is one of a chain of rude forts that
     run along the north face of the Strath or valley of Monteath.
     These forts are at present in ruins, and are discernible only by
     knolls of a green surface, covering a great heap of loose stones.
     There are also Kiers at Achinsalt, at Borland, at Balinackader, at
     Tar, and in many other places in that direction, all similar to one
     another, in respect of situation, construction, prospect, and materi-
     als; which is a strong presumption at least, if not a clear proof, that
     their use was the same.  There is, in the neighbourhood of the
     Church of Lecrept, a hill, where the baron used to hold his court,
     during the prevalence of the feudal system.  The Gallow Hill is
     near the Court Hill.
       Land-owners.--The principal land-owners and their valuations
     are as follows:
     <TABLE>

                   Archibald Stirling, Esq. of Keir,   -    L.1269  6  8
                   Earl Of Moray                       -       200  0  0
                   David Foggo, of Rowspeirs           -        67  0  0
                                                            ------------
                                          Total,       -    L.1536  6  8


