
638                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

mained staunch to the Protestant dynasty. A committee of safety
was constituted, and the fortifications of the city put in proper or-
der. An unsuccessful attempt was made by the rebels to gain
possession of the Castle; they, however, took possession for a short
time of the citadel of Leith, but were dislodged on the arrival of the
Duke of Argyle. On this occasion the run on the Bank of Scot-
land was so great that all payments were suspended till the alarm
subsided. The defensive operations for the city at this time
amounted to L.1700 Sterling, which government afterwards re-
paid.
The council at this time resumed a project which they had
previously formed for the improvement of Leith harbour, by extend-
ing the pier and erecting wet and dry docks at the national ex-
pease. The government would not, however, incur the expense,
but encouraged the council in their plan of improvement, by pro-
longing for nineteen years, the duty of two pennies Scots on the
pint of ale and beer, sold within the city or liberties. The im-
provements were accordingly in part executed, and the city debts,
which were then about L.25000, were nearly doubled in the course
of five years.
ln 1725 an extensive and destructive fire happened in the Lawn-
market, which caused considerable loss of property.
In 1736 occurred the famous Porteous mob, which transaction,
well illustrates the spirit and temper of the Edinburgh public at
this time. It is remarkable that although every exertion was made,
and high rewards-offered by the government for the detection of
the individuals concerned in this outrage, no identification of them
was ever made; and their names remain a mystery to this day.
A bill. passed both houses of parliament , imposing a fine of
L.2000 on the city of Edinburgh for the benefit of Porteous's
widow; and the provost was declared incapable'of ever serving
government in any capacity.
The year 1740 was characterised by great distress and some
disturbances among the lower orders, caused by a bad harvest,
following a very severe winter and cold season.
When the Rebellion of 1745 occurred, the town-council. of Ed-
inburgh took immediate measures for the support of the existing
government. The city walls were repaired, and a trench was dug
from the north side of the castle to the North Loch.  The city
guard was increased; arms given out to the inhabitants of Leith;
and a regiment of troops raised. The inhabitants also formed


