
               			ARDCHATTAN.                            507

sums have been expended in improving the patch of the arable ground,
it is a physical impossibility to render it valuable.
	The stipend, as modified in 1816, amounts, as since paid by the
heritors, to 253 bolls, 1 peck, - 5/5 ths of a lippie of meal ; 9 bolls of
barley, estimated by the Linlithgow measure ; 6 stones of cheese,
and L.37, 9s. I Od. of money, including L. 8, 6s. 8d. for commu-
nion elements. The patronage of the church belongs to Camp-
bell of Lochnell. The number of communicants is above 300.
Till the late disruption there were not above ten Dissenters from
the Established Church throughout the whole parish.
	A parish missionary association was established nearly twenty
years ago, when there were several resident heritors, and the an-
nual contributions amounted to between L.30 and L.35 a year.
That association has since merged into the collections in support
of the five Assembly's schemes for the spread of the gospel at
home and abroad; but owing to the absence of the heritors, and
the increased poverty of the people, the yearly sum collected now
does not amount to one-half of that sum. What is thus collected
is, of course, irrespective of the ordinary Sabbath-day collections,
which, on an average of the three last years, 1840, 1841, 1842,
amounted to L.13, 18s. A place of worship in connection with
the Free Church of Scotland is now being built about six miles
distant from the parish church, and is nearly roofed in. When
completed, it will accommodate 354 sitters.
	Education.-There are three schools in the parish, one the pa-
rochial, and the other two on the scheme of the General Assem-
bly. There is also a sewing, mistress, who has a small salary
from the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge. The
benefits of education are generally appreciated by the people, and
the consequence is, that there is a desire to avail themselves of
these, since the Assembly's scheme was set on foot, to an extent
previously unknown. The effects on 'their conduct and morals
are decidedly beneficial. The salary of the parochial teacher is
the minimum, together with L. 4, 3s. 4d. interest of mortified
money, payable by Mr Campbell of Ardchattan. The upper
district of the parish is unfavourably situate in reference to
education, from the distance at which the comparatively few
families' there reside from one another. By the late Dr M'In-
tyre, surgeon, 53d Regiment, who bequeathed several sums for
promoting benevolent objects, L. 200 were appropriated, the
interest of which was to be laid out in educating the poorer


