                               KIRKCOLM.                     109


lignaria, Balanus sulcatus, Cardium, echinatum, Cardium levi-
gatum, Lucina radula, Turritella terebra, Psammobia Ferroensis,
Lutraria elliptica, Trochus maqus, Trochus umbilicatus, Trochus
zizyphinus, Cytherea exoleta, Anomia ephippium, Purpura lapillus.
This latter testacea is found alive in considerable abundance, ad-
hering to the red sandstone conglomerate of Corswall. It is from
a vein in this animal that the liquid substance which imparts a
brilliant and lasting purple dye to linens and cottons, is obtained.
When first extracted from the animal, this liquid is of a muddy yel-
low tint, but becomes purple on exposure to the atmosphere.  It
is known by the fetid smell of garlic, which it has when the vein
is first opened, but this speedily disappears.  Modiola vulgaries,
Fusus corneus, Fusus antiquus, Rostellaria pes-pelecani, Mactra
solida, Mya truncata, Mya. arenaria, Nassa reticulata, Venus
gallina, Patella Vulgate, the limpet, adhering in great abund-
ance to the red sandstone conglomerate on the shore of Cors-
wall, wherever exposed, to the flux and influx of the tide.
When the limpet is first detached from the rock, its inhabitant
contains abundantly a liquid resembling in hue the yellow of raw
Terra Sienna, which may be used as a pigment in water colours.
The extraordinary quantities in which the limpet, whelk, lepas, &c.
adhere to this conglomerate deposit, are very remarkable, especi-
ally when the boulder stones with which the shore is strewed, con-
sisting of masses of granite sienite, greywacke, basaltic amygda-
loid, greenstone, serpentine, &c. are observed to be wholly desti-
tute of them.  The same remark applies in regard to the sea-weed;
and where the conglomerate is not exposed to the action of the
tides, the different species of lichens and other stone Plants are
much more abundantly spread on its surface than on the greywacke
and slate rocks of the same locality.
     Botany. *-From the extent and variety of coast by, which the
greater part of Kirkcolm is surrounded, we should naturally ex-
pect to find a considerable variety of those plants which grow in
maritime districts.  In this we are not disappointed; for, besides the
common species usually found in such situations, we find abun-
dantly Scirpus maritimus and Savii;  Asplenium marinum, Juncus
maritimus, Oenanthe pimpinelloides; more sparingly, Carex ex-
tensa, Sagina maritima, Pinguincula Lusitanica, Erytkrea littoralis,
Crithmum maritimum, Daucus maritimus; also, Hypericum An-

<FOOTNOTE>For this account of the botany of Kirkcolm, the author is indebted to the kind-
ness of  Mr. Gilbert M'Nab  of Edinburgh, who has visited this district.



