
     Statistical Account

state.  Many of those that have, were already considered
and anticipated in whole or in part, as they occurred occa-
sionally in treating of other articles.  Therefore all that is
necessary is to give a short account of such particulars as
have not been anticipated, and may apply to this parish.
   Well then, we have no manufactures, no artists, and but
few mechanics.  All the inhabitants are of the Established
Church, yet many attempts have been made to introduce Se-
cession among them.  They are, on the whole, moderate and
rational in their religious principles, punctual in their attend-
ance on divine ordinances, and well disposed to encourage
and support the means of religious instruction among them.
None, for many years past, have died of famine or want:
nay, in the late severe and unfavourable years, when the
country was threatened with famine, nothing like it was
seen or heard in this parish; yet the effects of these unhap-
py seasons are still felt, and will be felt for some time to
come: So fatal a stroke it then received, that from it we
may date a kind of revolution in manners and circumstan-
ces.  No murders have been committed for many years
past; yet secret grudges and animosities still prevail, and
often times break out into quarrels and broils, at markets
and meetings, which wear a dreadful appearance, and some-
times are attended with disagreeable consequences; but a
great deal of this is to be imputed to the too free use of
spiritous liquors on these occasions, which inflames their
blood, and exasperates their spirits.  As to child-murder,
in particular, it is scarcely known in this parish, and long
may it be so.  I never heard of any instance of suicide but
one, which happened about 18 years ago, and it is to be
hoped will not happen so soon again; yet I am sorry to
say, that of late years there were in the country two or
three instances of that detestable and melancholy practice.
I have no doubt but many leave this parish and country


