
                                ARDCHATTAN                              469



        from him, this parish derives its name, Ard- Chattan, signifying, in
        the Gaelic language, "the height or promontory of Catan."
           Ardchattan parish was at one time known by the name of the
        parish of Bal-Mhaodan, that is, the residence of "Maodan" or
        "Modan," some saint of the Popish calendar, in whose honour
        a church was erected in that subdivision of the county of Argyle
        called Cowal, and from which church the parish of Kil-Modan
        derived its name.
           The entire tract of country which forms the parish of Ardchat-
        tan, exclusive of that section of it which commences at the in-
        flux of the river Awe, and stretches to the north-east of Loch-
        etive, is, in common parlance, called "Benderalocb," or "Ben-
        derloch," a name sufficiently descriptive of its physical aspect, for
        it signifies in Gaelic, ("beinn-eadar-dha-loch") "the mountain
        range between two arms of the sea," here called lochs."  These
        lochs are Loch-etive (from the Gaelic "eite" "wild,") towards
        the south; and Loch-creran towards the north.
           Extent, &c.-The length of the parish from the extremity of
        Glen-etive on the north-cast, to the point of Garvard ("garbh-
        ard,") on the west, is more than 40 miles.  In figure it is very ir-
        regular, and from this circumstance it varies much in breadth.
        From the head of Ardmucknish bay to Loch-creran, the breadth
        at high water is scarcely half a mile, while this breadth increases to
        at least sixteen miles from the river Creran to the point of Dris-
        saig, on Loch Awe.  The average breadth of the parish may be
        estimated at 10 miles.
           Ardchattan is bounded on the south and east by Loch-etive,
        the river Awe, and Loch Awe, till where the mountain-stream
        Molla discharges its waters into that lake.  This stream separates
        the parish of Ardchattan from Glenorchy.  Loch-creran, and the
        river of that name, form its northern boundary, and divide it from
        the parish of Appin; while, towards the west, it is bounded by
        the Llhinne-loch.
           Besides several uninhabited islets, consisting generally of un-
        productive rocks, without even a covering of vegetation, there are
        two inhabited islands in the parish, Eriska, situated at the entrance
        into Loch-creran, and Elan-duirnish, in Loch-etive, opposite to
        Bunawe.  The former of these is a well-wooded and interesting
        island, containing, besides some good pasture land, a considerable
        proportion of arable, and forming a compact little farm.  Elan-
        duirnish, the other, is inhabited only by the ferryman, supports no


