
562                            EDINBURGHSHIRE.


   It appears that Lawrence Watsone was reader at this period,
and probably the first who held the office, for, on the 24th Janu-
ary 1582-3, he was "ordainit to gif the names of the sclander-
ous persons within his parochin of Newton that day aucht days."
   The first volume of the presbytery record is very defective,
there being several large blanks. After 1584, in which year
the meetings of presbyteries were interdicted by royal authority,
it is not resumed till October 1588. Then there is only one
half-year wanting till July 1594, when there occurs a hiatus till
1612, after which it is complete.*

<FOOTNOTE>It may be interesting to extract from this record a part of the early notices in
reference to this parish, which, as illustrating the ecclesiastical history of the period,
may in so far be possessed of general interest. With this view we have extracted the
following:-18th January 1592-3. "The quhilk day it was ordainit that Mr Willm.
Knox and Archd. Simsonet+ suld speik with the Laird of Edmonstone annent the
plantation of the kirk of Newtone." 25th January. "Reported by Mr Willm.
Knox that the Laird of Edmonstone promisit to be cairful in the rebuilding of the
kirk of Newtone. As for provisione to ane minister, he shew that John Barbour, pre-
sentit unto him be the presbyterie, was in title given be him, and possession of vica-
rage and kirkland, quhilks suld find ane minister to serve the cuir-of the quhilk they
are disappointit."
   The kind and amount of instruction the parishioners received, when thus unprovid-
ed with a minister, is shown by the following:-"12th July 1593. Reportit that, in
the visitation of Newtone, first, the pareschone being inquirit how they were exer-
cisit, answerit, that John Barbour, an reader, did reid twa chapters, and say the com-
mon prayers. and lernit them the grounds of religion after the reiding. Being en-
quyrit of his life, they answerit, in respect of his nonresidence thair, that was not to
be submitted to thair judgment. And with ane consent desyrit ane minister give be
their moyen thair culd attean unto the benetitt. John Barbour being askit give he
sett any tax ofthe vicarage, denyit any tax to be sett." It would appear that the dif-
ficulty hinted at to the granting of this request was found to be a serious one on the
part of the presbytery, for, thereafter, we find this entry: 27th September 1593,
"The brethrene having some kirks to be plantit, and not being able to be yair awn
moyen to do the turne, refers ye advyss of ye Synodall next, to be taken anent ye
plantation of Newton, now fallen into ye Queen's Majestie's hand. "Nothing came
of this at the time, and, after the long blank in the Record above alluded to, we still
find this object unattained. 12th August 1612. "The quhilk day compeird Mr
Thomas Hoip with Mr Patrick Edmistone, ye laird of Schirah., and gave in a bill
desyring for yair interest ye planting of ye kirk of Newtone, as also desyring ye bre-
thers' consent give yai suld offer unto yaim ane qualefyit man, either ane of ye ex-
pectants of Edinr. or our own, to teich yair for a quhille till his provisioun war seen
to, and yairefter to be admitted; quhilk ye presbyterie yieldit to, and ordainit ye
same to be enacted in yair buiks." 20th August. "The quhilk day Mr Thoa.
Hop did direct Mr John Aird unto ye presbyterie, desyring ye brether to direct him
to Newtone, and he, according to order, producing his testimonies of his qualifica-
tioune and honestie, was ordainit to ade to ye exercise ye nixt day, as also the Sabbath
following to teich at Newtone." 10th December. "The quhilk day ye parochiners,
of Newtoun gave in ane bill desyring Mr John Aird's planting with yairn at Newtoun,
yei being content with his life and doctrine. Unto the quhilk suit ye presbyterie
yealdit, and has ordainit his edict to be served ye nixt day." After the edict had been
served three times, and none of the parishioners, having appeared to object, it was re-
solved to proceed to his admission, after the customary trials had been gone through.

<FOOTNOTE>William Knox was minister of Cockpen and brother to John the Reformer.
Archibald Simson was minister of Dalkeith, and afterwards came under the ban of
the court for maintaining the ancient liberties of the kirk, as may be seen in Calder-
wood's History, anno 1617.


