                            BALMACLELLAN.                                 105

     Character of the People.--The inhabitants generally live in a
comfortable manner. They are sober, industrious, intelligent,
and enterprizing. They live on good terms with one another,
and are given to hospitality. The benefits of education are duly
appreciated, and they are regular in their attendance on the or-
dinances of religion. The only game to which they are devoted,
is that of curling. All ranks join in this amusement with un-
bounded enthusiasm and spirit.

                           IV.--INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture, &c.--The parish contains  23,737 imperial acres.
The land cultivated, or occasionally under tillage, amounts to
about 4000 acres.  After making a large allowance for land un-
er water, roads, extensive plains of moss, and about 300 acre
of plantation, the remainder is chiefly pasture.
     Breeds of Live-Stock.--Till lately, sheep of the black-faced
breed formed the only stock of this description. In one of the
largest farms, they are now crossed with the white-faced breed.
The Cheviot and finer kinds are also sometimes met with; but
the cross, on the whole, is preferred, as better adapted to the
soil and climate. Here, Galloway cattle are much esteemed.
The cows are almost all of this sort, with the exception of a few
of the Ayrshire breed. It is also worthy of notice, that whereas
fifty years ago, scarce a dozen pigs were found in the parish, 350
on an average are now annually fattened for the Dumfries market.
Estimating these at L.2, 5s. each, the sum of L.787, I Os., or
about one-sixth of the rental of the parish, must be realized from
this source alone.
     Husbandry.--Of the general system of farming, there is little
worthy of remark. Six of the best arable farms in the parish are
entirely in pasture, and the tenants themselves are non-resident.
Of those under tillage, it may be said in general, that they are
over-cropped. This evil, however, is rather on the decline.  A
few of the farmers still hold the plough. Indeed, the ploughmen
of Balmaclellan hold a prominent place in the district competi-
tions, and have uniformly carried off a fair proportion of the
prizes annually awarded. On some estates the houses and fences
are far from good. There, a system of subsetting has been car-
ried on for years, and produced the most miserable results. In
general, however, there is a progressive improvement. Landlords
grant leases of fifteen and nineteen years' duration, and, on the
whole, are indulgent, liberal, and enlightened.


