
132                     STIRLINGSHIRE.


to the inhabitants of this small district of upwards of L.4300,-be-
sides the value of the time lost while drinking, and in consequence
of drinking, which I am sure would be underrated at L.800 more.
This quantity of spirits, I understand, would consume nearly 700
bolls of barley." Add to this enormous amount, the quantity of
spirits sold on the southern side of the parochial ridge, and it will
appear that there are no less than L.7000 annually spent in this
parish, in the purchase of spirituous liquors; a sum nearly equal
to the rental of the whole parish. "How easy a matter it would
be," observes the gentleman referred to, "for the working clas-
ses to make grain cheap, without any alteration of the Corn Laws,
and to make themselves most comfortable, without any reduction
of taxation."
   Villages.--There are four villages in the parish,--Denny, Hags,
Fankerton, and Loanhead. From Broomage toll-bar to where
the road strikes off right and left near Hags to Glasgow, for the
space of a mile, the houses are so thickly planted as to promise to
become, in the course of twenty or thirty years, one continuous
street.
    There are about 190 parliamentary voters in this parish.
    There is one post-office, the average revenue of which is an-
nually about L.300. The length of turnpike roads in the parish
is ten miles and upwards. In winter, the number of public car-
riages which pass and repass daily through the parish, is 22. The
bridges and fences within the parish are kept in good order.
    Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church stands west from the
old village of Denny. Its situation is sufficiently convenient for
the parishioners on the north side of the parochial ridge; but
not so for the inhabitants of Hags and Bankier. It was built in
1813, and cleaned and beautified internally, in 1838, by the vo-
luntary contributions of the people, and is at present in good and
comfortable repair. It contains 767 sittings, at eighteen inches
for each sitter. On sacramental occasions, there may be 900
0persons within its walls.  Ordinary Sabbath days' attendance 560.
Communicants, on an average, 512. There are seven free sittidgs
for the poor. The minister, elders, and scboolmaster have each
separate accommodation; and their sittings, amount to 28. The
manse was built in 1803, and is in good repair and comfortable.
The glebe consists of four arable acres, worth L.10; and half an
acre.for manse, offices, and garden. The stipend is 16 chalders,


