
	146 	            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

	so ruinous in certain seasons to the crops.  North-east winds are
	next in frequency, and they occur especially in spring.  The sea-
	sons run very much in cycles: eight or ten may in succession be
	warm, steady, and favourable, while three or four, as has been
	seen lately, are cold and stormy.  An accurate meteorological
	journal in my.possession, kept during the years 1750-51-52,
	and 53, by the late Mr Archibald, minister of Unst, shows
	that the weather then was of the satne character that it is now.
	 The aurora-borealis is common, but seldom more brilliant than
	in more southern regions, and is, for the most part, the pre-
	cursor or concomitant of south winds.  The hissing or rustling
	sound, said to accompany this  meteor, is here generally believed
	to exist.  Thunder and lightning are unfrequent, and are usually
	followed by more unfavourable weather.  Although in this country
	much depends on foreseeing atmospherical changes, compara-
	tively little attention is paid to prognostics, and the judgment
	of very few of the fishermen is to be relied on ; the inidivi-
	duals that seem to have the greatest facility at guessing are the
	fish-curers.  The arch of the sky is generally low and hazy.  When
	high, and the clouds form cumuli, west and south winds are, as
	I have observed, present, or near at hand.  When low and strati-
	fied, east especially, and north.
	   Whilst the climate is unsettled and sometimes stormy, the coast
	affords a continued succession of noble harbours, where, by the aid
	of th e excellent Admiralty Chart lately published, the mariner may
	find a secure asylum.  A lighthouse has been erected on the
	southern extremity of the country ; but two or three additional
	ones are desirable.  Wrecks are now comparatively rare.  When
	they occur, the propensity to plunder, common to the inhabitants of
	most maritime districts, is apt to show itself.  It is almost hope-
	less to convince rude minds, that what is at the mercy of the ocean
	is to be held sacred as private property ; and the very inadequate
	recompense, which, in too many instances, has been allowed for ex-
	treme toil and danger in saving valuable property, strengthens the
	practice of endeavouring to remunerate themselves.  In the case of
	no owner being found, it would seem to be equitable, as consistent to
	ancient usage, and it would discourage falsehood and speculation,
	were the Crown, after the custom's duties had been paid, to waive the
	claim to its share in favour of the salvers ; a reference to the records
	of the Exchequer would show how trifling would be the sacrifice.
	Under the existing state of things, every bit of drift-timber that
	can be discovered is taken possession of by officials, and the fisher-


