
			ABERDEEN.      			    49

ties and persuasions." *  The revenue of the hospital appears to
have consisted of a bequest left by Mr John Kemp in 1713, for
maintaining a free school for educating poor children, together
with four quarterly collections in the churches of the Establishment
and several of the Dissenting chapels, and occasional donations
from individuals.  To these were soon after added the proceeds of
one-half of the residual estate of Mr Rickart of Auchnacant, be-
queathed in 1741 towards endowing a workhouse in Aberdeen.  In
the year 1768, a system of out-door relief was deemed preferable
for the adult and aged inmates of the hospital, and in order to
constitute a fund for this purpose, as well as generally for the sup-
ply of the parochial poor, without putting an end to the hospital as
an educational establishment for orphans and destitute children, an
agreement was entered into, whereby the kirk-session of St. Ni-
cholas engaged to pay L. 241 annually, being the estimated sur-
plus of their hands after defraying certain settled charges; the ma-
nagers of the Poor's Hospital undertook to give L. 100, being the
surplus remaining with them after meeting the estimated expense
of maintaining and educating twenty-five boys and the managers
of St Paul's Chapel agreed to contribute (for one year, but it was
annually continued for a considerable time), the sum of L. 30.
By the union of these three, "the United Fund" was established,
which was "to be distributed among the poor, and applied to all the
charitable purposes at present provided either by the session or by
the directors of the Poor's Hospital." +  It was also resolved that
the fund should be managed by all the session, together with ma-
nagers chosen by the directors of the Poor's Hospital, and by the
managers of St Paul's Chapel in numbers proportioned to the ex-
tent of their contributions.  The foundation:  being thus laid of a
fund for the support of the parochial post, considerable additions
were from time to time made to it by the donations and bequests
of individuals, and for nearly fifty years the money thus placed in
the hands of the managers was found sufficient (with strict econo-
my) for this purpose; but as the town became more populous and
more commercial, the number of the poor increased; and in the
year 1818, the desire to rid the street of, a number of beggars, by
whom, they were infested, and at the same time to avoid the impe-
sition of a legal assessment for their maintenance, led to the collection
lection of a voluntary contribution to meet the increasing demands

<FOOTNOTE>Statistical Account of Aberdeen, 1779.
          Minute-Book of the United Funds, 1768.


