
	               STEVENSTON.                       437

	Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks in this parish are chiefly
greenstone, limestone, and sandstone. Several of the little hills
are deep mounds of water-worn stones and sandy gravel. In
digging for water at the Manse twelve years ago, the workmen,
till they went down twenty feet, found nothing but a dry bed of
this description; and then, when they were beginning to lose hopes,
excellent water spring up, in sufficient abundance to supply the
whole parish. On digging two feet deeper, they came to a stra-
tum of clay. Before reaching the clay, they found mingled with
the stones and gravel plenty of yellow ochre.
	In sinking for coal in the Turf-Dike pit, a seam of beautiful
marble was found a foot thick, and probably extensive as the coal-
field. It was not known at the time to be marble, so that only a
few specimens were kept as curiosities, on account of the fossil
shells closely imbedded in it. One of these specimens was polished
in proof of its excellence, on our hearing that a splendid marble
fire-place had been formed at Chatelherault of precisely the same
layer or deposit, found on the Duke of Hamilton's property in that
neighbourhood. The shells of which it is chiefly composed, Unio
pictorum of Lamarck, or probably rather Unio Urii of Fleming, show
that this stratum is probably of lacustrine origin, these fossils being
fresh water shells.
	Quarries.--The Capon Craig Gaw, near Sea Bank, furnishes
an inexhaustible mass of remarkably firm greenstone; but it is
but little wrought, except to be broken down for repairing the
highways.
	Ardeer or Stevenston Ouarry.--This is the most valuable quarry
of white freestone or sandstone in the west of Scotland. The pro-
duce of it has long been well known to the public under the name
of Stevenston Stone.It is of very excellent quality. The colour
is good; and being firm and fine in the grain, and easily wrought,
it takes a fine polish, and stands well. It is much used at home;
and it is still more in request in Dublin and Belfast, and other
places in Ireland; for it can be sawn like marble, with which it
vies in beauty, and it can be formed into slabs of any size required.
At home, and also in Ireland, it is used in the interior of houses,
for stairs, the pavement of lobbies and halls, and for chimney-pieces,
&c.; and externally, it is employed in public and private buildings
for fronts, and chimneys, and columns, &c. Columns can be furnish-
ed of any dimensions, from 10 to 20 feet and upwards in altitude.
It is used also for tomb-stones, and gate-posts, &c. The quarry


