
88                                 KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

memory. An immense multitude, amounting to many to many thousands,
assembled. The collection came to L. 27, consisting almost en-
tirely of halfpence, of which L.5 were presented to the preacher,
and the rest was employed in putting up a stone pillar, with a great
number of inscriptions. It was unskilfully built, and is at present
threatening to fall in pieces. The name of the gentleman who
conducted the services of that day is Osborne. His discourse,
which he printed, is an elaborate and strong performance, without
the slightest reference eilher to times of religious persecutions of
to the history of the martyr, M'Clement. Of the Abbey of Tong-
land, built in the twelfth century by Fergus, Lord of Galloway, of
whom the present family of M'Dowall in Wigtonshire is de-
scended, only a single small and low arch remains. It forms part
of the northern wall of the old church, one of the meanest of
buildings, having evidently been, permitted to remain for the sake
of convenience and economy. It is almost entirely built up, the
only open space left being a little square hole in which a pane or two
of glass had been stuck by way of window to the congregation. * In
trenching a piece of ground for a garden, some years since, near
the farm-house of Kirkconnel, the workmen came on what seem-
ed to have been a burying-ground of some antiquity. Patches of
earth appeared much darker in colour than the surrounding soil,
and exactly resembling graves in dimensions and shape. In the
centre of one of these patches, a gold ring was turned up, without
name or date, bearing on the part next the finger an inscription in
the old engrossing hand," The gift and the giver are thine for
ever." This, no doubt, had been the marriage ring of one, loving,
beloved, and, perhaps beautiful in her day. It suggests the his-
tory of our race, and insinuates the hopes of our nature-youth,
love, courtship, wedlock, happiness, separation, old age, death,
oblivion on earth, and eternal union in Heaven!
   Modern Buildings.--The present church is a handsome, com-
modious and substantial building, with Gothic windows and a
square tower. It was built in the year 1813. Although so re-
cently erected, it is the oldest church in a presbytery, consisting of
16 parishes, and nearly the oldest in a county consisting of 28--
all the others having been either rebuilt, or enlarged and altered
so as to suit the increasing population since the date, of its erec-
tion. It is seated to accommodate 420 people, which is rather
more  than the half of the inhabitants. On the 22d of March

<FOOTNOTE>An exquisitely formed granite cell, turned up by the plough at Argrennan, was
lately presented by Mr Turnbull to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland.





