
260 			 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

bability he, is right in conjecturing, that the intrusion of a Pagan
people among the Romanized Ottadini, along the southern shore
of the Forth, during the fifth century, was the cause of destruction
to the Druidical monuments in those districts.*
   Although the subject is involved in great obscurity, there is rea-
son to believe, that Christianity was preached in East Lothian by
Baldred,+ a disciple of Kentigern, during the sixth century.  That
be then existed, established a religious house at Tyningham, and
strove to evangelize the adjacent country, there can be no doubt.
   We learn from the venerable Bede, that there was a Saxon mo-
nastery at Tyningham, dedicated to St Balther, (Smith's edition,
231-54,) and that its diocese ultimately comprehended the whole
extent of East Lothian.  We mention the circumstance here for the
purpose of proving, that Musselburgh existed as a town in the
seventh century, and was the western boundary of this bishoprick, as
Simeon of Durham, in describing the country, has these words,
"et tota terra quae pertinet ad monasterium Sancti Baltheri quod vo-
catur Tyningham, a Lambermore usque ad Escemuthe" (Inver-
esk.) This diocese was afterwards known as that of Lindisfarn;
and was extended over the three Lothians.
   At what time the church of St Michael of Inveresk was found-
ed, we have no authentic data to prove; but from the quantity of
Roman bricks and other ruins used in its construction, it certainly
laid claim to great antiquity.  In 1020, when the Lothians were
ceded to the King of Scotland, the Eclesia de Muskilburg came
under the jurisdiction of the Bishop of St Andrews; and in 1176,
we find from the ancient Taxatio, that it paid to that see a larger
assessment than an other church in Mid-Lothian.++

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 500-1.
In the grounds of Sir David Milne's beautiful villa at Inveresk, a monument was
dog up two or three years ago, which seems to bear strong marks of a Druidical ori-
gin. It is a circular table of stone, covered with a composition of lime and gravel,
supported on freestone pillars.  The interior was filled with the teeth of animals, and
around it were majestic antlers of the deer. What could this be if not a Druidical
Cromlech?
   The whole have fortunately been preserved.
         Keith says, that Baldred was a successor of Kentigern, and a confessor, and
places his martyrdom on 6th March 608.--In the English Martyrology, it is stated
to have occured on 29th March (701.) Dempster in his Menologia Scotiae agrees
with Keith; and Simeon of Durham, Lib.  ii. c. 2, assigns the same date to the
event.
         The pasage is perhaps here worthy of transcription.  Ecelesia de Muskilburg, 70
mercas; ditto de Cranstoun, 60; ditto ae Creightoun, 30; ditto de Faulaw, 6; ditto
de Locherwort, 40; ditto de Kerynton, 18. ditto de Koepen, 20; ditto de Clerk-
ington, 8; ditto de Maisterton, 4; ditto de Heriot, 30; ditto de Monte Laodoniae,
12.
                			      4


