
     Statistical Account

and parish of Assint reverted to the Noble family who
gave it to Mac-Kry-cul*.

   Heritors.-The late good Earl William having got As-
sint+, soon thereafter granted wadsets or feus, to the
number of six.  The gentlemen who held them first, re-
sided on the coast of Sutherland by Dornoch, etc.  None
of them have their abode here.

   Instances of good and bad Seasons.-The most remarkable
instances of bad seasons are the following: In 1766, when

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mac-Kry-cul is reported by the people here to be the potent man,
of whom are descended the Macnicols, Nicols, and Nicolsons.

+This Noble family, in respect of antiquity, is equal to any.  Some
are of opinion, that a prince or chieftain of the German Celti (whom the
Roman historian mentions, Tac. ger. 30. I.) was progenitor ot it Be
that as it will, it is fact that the county of Sutherland, in the Gaelic lan-
guage is called Shir-ri-acht-chatt; the natives, by the same language, are
denominated Chattick; and the Earl called Mor-ir-chart Further,
there is early mention of the Thanes of Sutherland in Bucha-
nan's history of Scotland; for proof of this the history of the usurper
Macbeth may be read, who, to possess the Crown, assassinated his own
cousin, King Duncan I.  and put to death soon thereafter the Thanes of
Caithness, Sutherland, Ross, and Nairn, etc. in the year 1043.  However,
the survivors of these Thanes, conjoining with the other great chieftains
of Scotland, expelled the usurper, and placed Malcolm III, on the throne
of his fathers, Buchanan's History, B 6. and 7 It appears also from
the 9th book of same historian, that in the year 1370, or thereby,
King David II. preferred Alexander, son to the Earl of Sutherland, by
said David's second sister, to succeed him as King of Scotland; the nobi-
lity accordingly swore sealty to him; but Alexander dying soon after,
the King was reconciled to Robert Stewart, the son of his eldest sister.
In short, this Noble family always concurred in promoting and effecting
the general good and happiness of the state or kingdom.  As evidence of
this read Dr Smollet's history of 1715, vol. 10. where the patriotic con-
duct of John Earl of Sutherland, in the House of Peers, against the Earl
of Anglesy, etc. will appear conspicuous.


