
                       ORMISTON.                            141

very much improved under his own immediate inspection. He gave
every encouragement to the tenantry on his estates, and they were
not insensible to his kindness. They erected a monument to his me-
mory on Byreshill, which bears testimony to the estimation in which
he was held by them. After leaving Ormiston in 1818, he never again
resided there. He died at Paris in 1823, lamented not only by his
family and the tenantry on his extensive estates, but by the nation
at large as a public benefactor and a model of disinterestedness
and integrity. His widow now occupies the house of Ormiston
Hall.
   He was succeeded by his son the present Earl, who gives pro-
mise of the same benevolent dispositions by which his family has
been all along peculiarly distinguished.
   The Earl of Hopetoun, sole proprietor, has in his possession se-
veral plans or surveys of the parish; in particular, an old plan of
Ormiston by Lewis Gordon in 1731: a, plan of the village of Or-
miston, also by Lewis Gordon,-besides a large plan of the ba-
rony of Ormiston, in 1742 by the same. There are a great many
letters in the possession of Mr Wight's family chiefly relating to
the agricultural improvements carried on by John Cockburn.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are very imper-
fect. Some of them, according to tradition, being in the posses-
sion of one of the elders, who was tenant of East Mains, were con-
sumed when the house of East Mains was burnt. The earliest date
of those that remain is April 30, 1637. There is a blank from
1689 to 1730, supposed to have been occasioned by the loss of
those that were burnt. From 1730 to the present day, they are
complete and regularly kept.
   Antiquities.-There is an old cross in the centre of the village.
It seems to have been connected with a Roman Catholic chapel,
which, about the beginning of the last century, stood where the
cross now is, extending across the street from north-west to south-
east. That chapel was then used as the schoolhouse, and one of
the oldest inhabitants, now dead, told me he was educated there.
Several of the parish records are dated in that school-house. The
cross is still in good preservation. About six years ago the stones
at the base were much decayed, and it was in some danger of fal-
ling; to prevent which, it was substantially repaired by means of
a subscription, and is now in a state to stand for ages. *
   At the southern extremity of the parish, about three miles from

<FOOTNOTE>The MSS. contain an account of some minor antiquities.


