
                                GREENOCK.                               429

     and character.  Of the three proprietors of land between whom
     the parish is divided, none ever reside in it.  But some of our ship
     builders, merchants, and manufacturers, are men of large and in-
     dependent fortune constantly residing within the parish, and dis-
     tinguished for their liberality and beneficence. Of the class next
     to them in affluence, it may be said with, truth, that there is a very
     large proportion of very high respectability, both in point of intel-
     lectual cultivation, and moral character, and attention to the duties
     and ordinances of religion. In the working-classes, there are not
     a few of the same description, exhibiting in the neatness and clean-
     liness of their dwellings and persons, strong presumptive proofs of
     sound religious and moral principle, and of their enjoying the com-
     forts which flow from these, and from the prosperity of the town
     in which they live. It is deeply to be lamented, however, that,
     as we descend in the scale, we meet with the most-mournful signs
     of moral deterioration-infidelity shedding its baleful influence
     over the minds and habits of the poor; intemperance laying waste
     their bodily frame, and destroying the peace of their families, and
     both together inducing a habitual disregard of the Sabbath day,
     and a sullen contempt of the house of God, and the truths and so-
     lemn obligations of Christianity. If there be any truth in the de-
     scriptions given of the character of our Scottish peasantry, and ar-
     tisans, fifty or a hundred years ago, the change which has taken
     place during that period is such as to awaken the sorrow, and to call
     forth the enlightened zeal and beneficence of every friend of reli-
     gion and of his fellow men.
       Proofs of these mournful statements. will be given under a fu-
     ture head, and the causes of the degeneracy referred to will be
     pointed out.  Meanwhile it is no more than justice to the inha-
     bitants of Greenock to remark, that where the population is dense,
     intemperance and licentiousness are too frequently the vices of
     persons of all ranks; and sea-port towns are more than others ex-
     posed to that moral contagion.  To this we, may add that associa-
     tions, for other purposes, by bringing together men of very different
     and opposite principles, have exerted a most injurious influence on
     the working classes; and the immigration from other, quarters, of
     families, unaccustomed from their infancy to the habits of a well-
     conditioned Scottish population, has tended not a little to lower
     the standard by which they were, wont to regulate their con-
     duct; yet it may be fairly questioned whether, notwithstanding



