
                             MINTO.                  359

deserve examination, to determine whether it contains any, and
what organic remains. In some of tbe hollows, marl has accumu-
lated, and may still be observed going on by perecolation from the
soil. The origin of the lime, at least in part, is to be referred to
the greywacke rocks, in the neighbourhood of which it is that the
deposits take place. From the description given of the rocks, the
nature of the soil may be readily inferred:-that which rests on
the greywacke is a stiff white till; while from the argillaceous na-
ture of the sandstone, and the covering of dent, the land in other
places is also clayey and retentive of moisture, except in the allu-
vial tract near the river, and where the deposits of gravel are found,
and likewise near to the greenstone rocks, which by their decom-
position form a black and rich mould.
   Having described the nature and relative position of these rocks,
a few remarks are added respecting the theory of their age. The
greywacke deposits, underlying the unconformable strata of the
sandstone, are obviously older than the latter; and it has been
supposed that, being sedimentary rocks, now greatly inclined from
some force acting since their deposition, they may have been pre-
vious also to the igneous rocks, and received from the elevation
of these their present position. A cause, however, less of a li-
mited and local nature, must be sought for the distortion so cha-
racteristic of these transition strata; and a newer era assigned to
several at least of the trap irruptions, which in some cases seem
to have happened after the subsidence of the sandstone which
they have hardened. Thus, for example, a few years ago a quarry
was opened at the foot of the Minto hills, which, after a short at
tempt, was abandoned in consequence of the hardness of the
freestone, which broke the tools of the workmen. In opening also
a footpath on the west corner of the crags, the strata of sandstone
were found cropping out,-here likewise so hard and crystalline
as to give out sparks when struck with a hammer. The disloca-
tions and slips in the quarry from which Minto-House was built.
might be viewed as disturbances produced by the action of fire.
Still, notwithstanding these facts, and althoug they should prove
that some of the irruptions are newer, on taking a general view of
the sandstone strata in the neighbourhood, and their position re-
latively to the trap rocks, which are rather abundant, it is difficult
to resist the notion that these sedimentary deposits are the most
recent. And the view which, to the writer of this account, as yet
seems best to explain the actual appearances, is to consider the


