
                         BORTHWICK.                               189

the late James Mill, surgeon--who foresaw the good it was likely
to do, and zealously set himself to give a beginning to the scheme.
   Savings Bank.--A bank of this kind was instituted in his pa-
rish in May 1815. Most of the leading proprietors and tenants
became managers--and the institution having thus from the first
obtained the entire confidence of the parishioners, has continued to
thrive, while most of the other banks of the same kind, which were
set agoing about the same time, in neighbouring parishes have
ceased to exist. The circumstance which has chiefly contributed
to the success of our institution has been the perfect confidence re-
posed by the contributors in the kindness and good faith and pru-
dent conduct of all the persons entrusted with the management.
The depositors are chiefly young men and women.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of application for pa-
rochial relief has been on the increase for a considerable number
of years. The number at present on the regular roll is 25. These
persons receive at an average 5s. 6d. monthly--and this is defray-
ed by the collections at the church door, by the money paid for the
use of a mortcloth--and by an assessment on the heritors and te-
nants. The collections average about 13s. 6d. each Sabbath, or
L. 35, 10s. annually. The mortcloth money is about L. 5, 10s. per
annum--and the assessment on the heritors and tenants amounts
at present to about L. 60 per annum.
   The unwillingness to come upon the parish is not perhaps so
great as it once was; but in general the people do not seem to ask
relief till it is absolutely necessary--so that the heritors and session
have seldom occasion to refuse the applications that are made.
   Indeed the fault is scarcely in any instance on   the part of the
aged applicants, who are always unwilling to be placed on the poor's
roll. It lies with the younger generation, who are less disinclined
than formerly, to have it said that their parents are obtaining pa-
rochial relief--and who leave the to that aid, that they may
themselves enter into the married state.
   Inns.--There are but 9 alehouses in the parish, but as the great
south road passes through the centre of it, a great proportion of
them are upon it,--and hence, a passing observer might be disposed
to conclude that we are more than ordinarily provided with accom-
modations of this sort, although, in fact, when the entire extent of
the parish is considered, our number is below the average allowed
in other places. The most remarkable inns on the great road are,
Arniston Inn, Fushie Bridge, Currie Inn, and Middleton Inn. All


