
     of Clunie.

inanimate beauty of the place, was rooted up; 4 old planes
fell on the adjoining bank, and, at the same time, on the
island of Clunie, 5 venerable trees, that had withstood the
blasts of centuries, and sheltered the island on the N. W.
were laid flat on the ground.  The waters of the loch un-
derwent an unusual agitation, and the spray was whirled.
in showers over the neighbouring grounds to a considerable
distance.  This hurricane, by far the most dreadful we
ever had occasion to witness, was termed by the people
here an earth wind, and supposed to have been accompa-
nied with some degree of earthquake.-About the end of
February 1788, there was here a very deep fall of snow,
suddenly followed by a smart thaw and heavy rain, which
occasioned such an inundation of the loch of Clunie, as has
not been seen during the present century.  The whole
island was immersed for upwards of two hours, and its trees
and castle seemed to float on the surface of the water.
The meadow of Clunie lay under water 4 feet deep,
and two men failed across it, in a straight line, all the
way froth the castle hill, to the wall of the new garden
of Forneth, without meeting with the smallest obstruction.
-On the 19th of November 1791, at half past 7 o'clock
P.M. a fire-ball of uncommon magnitude, apparently
large, or very nearly as large as the disk of the
moon, was observed here in its passage from S. S. W.
to N.N.E.  Its elevation seemed considerable, and its
motion rapid.  For a few seconds, it illuminated the coun-
try all around very distinctly.  It emitted sparks, and left
a train behind it; and, a little to the northward of our ze-
nith, it divided into two lesser balls, which also emitted
sparks, and moved with equal velocity, their distance in-
creasing as they proceeded in their course to N. N. E.
Before they reached the verge of our horizon, they both
disappeared at the same instant, a little below the great star
in the constellation of Auriga; and about a minute after

     IX. M m


