
                        SADDELL AND SKIPNESS,                  439

        Soils.-The soil on the upper grounds is light and gravelly.
      Along the banks of the several streams it is alluvial and composed
      of a sort of sandy slime. In the meadows it is generally moss or
      a rich and deep loam incumbent on a bed of clay. The subsoil
      is usually rock, clay, or gravel, but in the mosses near the sea it
      presents layers of pure white sand.
        Zoology.-The only animal of the deer tribe now found in a
      wild state in this parish is the roe (Cervus capreolus). They
      were formerly numerous, as they still are in some parts of the
      country. Agricultural improvements, however, and the conse-
      quent extirpation of natural coppice-wood, have driven them from
      their native haunts, so that only a few stragglers are now to be
      seen among the plantations.  Hares (Lepus timidus) are pretty
      numerous. Rabbits have been turned out, but did not succeed.
      The wild cat (Felis catus) may still be met in the wooded glens,
      and among, the rocky cairns upon the sea coast.  But their num-
      bers are fast decreasing, and, in a few years, this animal will pro-
      bably be unknown in this district.  The badger (Metes vulyaris)
      is found in considerable numbers.  The country people have an
      idea that there are two distinct varieties of the badger; one with
      claws and a nose like a dog, and another with the snout of a hog
      and cloven feet. But, as we have never yet encountered this lat-
      ter prodigy, we can only vouch for the existence of the Meles vul-
      garis.
        Animals of the genus Mustela, or weasel tribe, are numerous,
      and very destructive to game and poultry. Of these we have the
      pine, or yellow-throated martin (Martis vulgaris,) the winter fur
      of which is little inferior tn the sable. The polecat or fumart
      (Mustela Putorius); the common weasel (Mustela vulgaris); and
      the stoat (Mustela Erminea,) which in winter assumes a white
      garb and becomes the ertnine, are all numerous.  The mole
      (Talpa Europea) had commenced its ravages in the northern
      district of the parish, about twenty-one years ago. It has now,
      however, found its way nearly to its southern extremity. The
      common tradition concerning them is, that, when they have found
      their way to the Mull of Kintyre, they will drive all the Campbells
      out of the country, and take possession of their estates. The
      otter (Lutra vulgaris) is found in considerable numbers along the
      sea coast, and in the moor lakes, where they bring forth their
      young.
        Fishes.-The common seal (Phoca vitulina) is found upon the
      coast, but they are not very numerous. Several varieties of the



