
                       DALKEITH.                         469

his extensive possessions, on the decease of his daughter Mary,
by his nephew, Sir James Douglas, first Lord of Dalkeith, and
eldest son of his brother, Sir John Douglas. This Sir James
Douglas bad previously obtained various possessions; but on the
9th December 1369, as we have already mentioned, on his own
resignation, be received a charter from David II. of the barony
and Castle of Dalkeith to himself, and the heirs-male of his body,
on giving annually to the King at the Castle of Dalkeith, if sought,
a pair of white gloves, or a silver penny, at the feast of Pentecost.*
He was present+ at the coronation of Robert II. at Scone, on the
26th March 1371, and took the oath of allegiance to that mo-
narch ;-and his seal and signature, along with those of other
nobles, are still extant, + appended to the solemn deed, by which
John, Earl of Carrick, King Robert's eldest son, is declared to be
the heir of the Scottish Crown, on his father's decease. This
young prince, however, had the misfortune to meet with an acci-
dent which rendered him for some time incapable of attending to
public affairs.
   In 1373, Sir James Douglas, first Lord of Dalkeith, undertook a
pilgrimage to Canterbury, for the accomplishment of which a
safe conduct was given him. He received from King Robert II.
various other charters; and by his marriage with Agnes Dunbar,
daughter of Patrick, ninth Earl of March, be added to his exten-
sive possessions, and became one of the "greater barons" of Scot-
land. He granted the lands of Quylt and Fethan, in the county
of Peebles, for the support of a chaplain in the chapel of Dal-
keith, which was confirmed by Robert II., at Irvine, on the 25th
October 1377.** He likewise founded and endowed an hospital++

<FOOTNOTE>"Reddendo nobis et haredibus nostris-annuatim apud castrum de Dalketh-
ad festurn Pentecostes, unum parem. cirotecarum (              ) albarum, vel unum de-
narium argenti, si petatur," &c.-Regist. Magn. Sigill. 70, 239.
     Robertson's Index, p. 111, 58, and appendix, page 15, line 12, et seq.
     The original document is preserved in the Register  Office, Edinburgh. A full
copy is given in Robertson's Index, Appendix, pages 10-12, and "Dus Jacobus de
Douglas," is one of the labels. His seal bears two a stars  or mullets on a chief,
supported by two savages, and the crest has a wild boar and a tree.
      The following curious entry occurs in Sir James Balfour's Annals. "The zeire
1389, King Robert the Second, being now broken down with age, and his eldest son
Jhone, Earl of Carrick, being, with a stroke of Sir James Douglas of Dalkeith's
horse, quyte leamed, and not able to travell, made his second son Robert, Earl of
Fyffe, by Sir Adam Muir's daughter, gouvernour oftbe kingdom." Vol. i. 132. The
same circumstance is noticed in Holingshed Boece.
     Rymer's Foedera, vii. 32.
     See Regist. Mag. Sigill., 140-73.
     Regist. Magn. Sigilf. 150-113.
     "What was called the hospital, was nothing more than two mean old houses call-
ed the Beid Houses, which were sold for the benefit of the poor about the year 1752,


