
			DOLPHINTON.                     53

by Haukshawhill, eastward by Tinto, and the Pentlands. The
whole of these hills, from their saddle-back shape, indicate to the
first gl`nce of the geologist that they are composed of trap-tuff, or
what is popularly styled rotten whin. It is said to be intermediate
between the two classes of volcanic rocks, the basaltic and trachy-
tic; and to be composed chiefly of felspar and zeolite, It is not
found here in beds, but has a massive form, so brittle as to fall
into small pieces when dug up. In this parish it is mostly of a
brown colour, and on the top of Dolphinton-hill it has much the
appearance of burnt limestone before it is reduced to powder, by
the application of moisture. Even the most adhesive portion of it, of
which some of the dikes have unfortunately been built, when ex-
posed for a few years to the atmosphere, first cracks, then falls
down like a lime-shell, and is finally reduced into mud. But it
stands the weather better when pointed with lime. In the south
side of the strath, beginning at the brook behind the manse, a stra-
tum of sandstone, at first mixed with brittle trap and quartz, but after-
wards much freer, appears. Its dip is towards the east and north, at
a small angle. In the centre of our valley, to the north of the free-
stone range, and to the south of that of the trap-tuff, an amygdaloidal
ridge traverses the parish from east to west; and a curious clink-
stone porphyry is found in the quarry near Lockhead. Some ap-
pearances of lead induced the proprietors of Newholl to make,
search for it; but the attempt was ultimately abandoned. A vein
of it probably stretches from Candy Bank eastward through this
and the parish of Linton by Silver Holes. A sort of tilly substance
is found in the south corner of the parish, which forms excellent
Oven-stones.
	Soil.--It is said that in warm climates the Phonolitic districts
are extremely fertile and well adapted to the culture of the vine;
and it is affirmed that this fertility arises from these rocks impart-
ing to the soil during their decomposition a great quantity of al-
kali. But in higher latitudes, such alluvial, formations are general-
ly meagre. In this parish the soil resting on these rocks is re-
markable neither for its fertility nor sterility. In general, it is a
dry friable earth or sandy loam, in some situations abundantly deep,
but in others rather shallow. Our soil is more fertile towards the
hill than in the plain below. A sort of clay-soil of a rusty iron.
colour abounds in the parish, and the subsoil is mostly of this na-
ture. In a few low situations an imperfect moss earth has been


