
72                            SELKIRKSHIRE.

riage may travel.  And the trustees, under the unremitting super-
intendance of Lord Napier, are still making and mending.  "The
roads and bridges," says Mr Hogg in his Statistical account of
Selkirkshire, "were never put into a complete state of repair till
the present Lord Napier settled in the country; and tn his perse-
verance Ettrick forest is indebted for the excellence of her roads,
now laid out and finished in every practicable direction.  With an
indomitable spirit of perseverance, he has persisted against much
obloquy and vituperation, and from none more than the writer of
this article.  But honour to whom honour is due, Lord Napier has
effected wonders; and the late impervious Ettrick forest may com-
pare, in the beauty and efficiency of her roads, with any mountain
district in the united kingdom."
     Ecclesiastical State.--The church is in nearly the centre of
the parish.  Two or three families are distant from it more than
six miles, yet some of them are almost as regular in their at-
tendance, as the day returns, for public worship.  It was re-
built (and enlarged) on the same site nine years ago.   It is very
neatly fitted up within; chaste in its style; commodious and com-
fortable.  It is seated to contain 450 free sitters.  The manse was
built within these last twenty years.  It is also in good repair, and
comfortable.  How different from the time when the incumbent
could with difficulty obtain divots and heather to thack it and make
it habitable!  The glebe contains about twenty-three English acres;
ten of which were lately allowed as pasturage or grass glebe.  The
whole may be reckoned at about L.20 a-year.  The stipend, in 1755,
converted to money, was L.65, 2s. 2d.  Immediately prior to the
30th of June 1808, it consisted of L.105, 11s, 11/3d. in money,
with two chalders of oat-meal and two of barley, together with
L. 8, 6s. 8d. as allowance for communion elements (See Survey of
Selkirkshire, 1829).  The present stipend is fifteen chalders, or
174 quarters, 6 bushels, and 1/4 gallon imperial measure, half meal
and half barley, with L. 100 Scots, or L. 8, 6s. for communion ele-
ments.  The average yearly amount of stipend converted to mo-
ney may be L. 230.  The locality (interim) of the parish of Ettrick
and Buccleuch commenced with brop and year 1821, and was mo-
dified in February 1822.
     There are no chapels or dissenting meeting-houses amongst us,
but there are several Dissenters.  There is a family of four of the
Relief persuasion.  There are above thirty-two united to the Re-
formed Presbyterian Synod, the old light of which Boston speaks,


