
                   KINCARDINE O'NIEL.                    833

   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks, of which there are few
remarkable in the parish, are generally composed of whin and
sandstone.  There is also abundance of excellent granite, in ex-
tensive masses, both above and under ground, some of which has
been cut for pillars and other purposes, seventeen feet long.  There
is no slate or limestone in the parish; nor, so far as I know, have
any fossil organic remains, or any ores, mines, or simple minerals
been found.
   There are some very extensive plantations, (above 1500 impe-
rial acres, the property of one proprietor).  The Scotch fir and
larch are the most common kinds raised. Latterly, considerable
quantities of oak and ash have been planted, and seem to thrive,
particularly the former.  To Scotch fir, larch, and oak the soil
would seem to be favourable.  Larch, on the estate of Learney,
has been found to thrive on the top of a hill exposed to the north-
ern blasts, when Scotch fir, after a dozen of years, has become
stunted and dwarfish.  Still, it is doubtful if they will thrive to be-
come timber. Birch would seem to be indigenous along the banks
of the Dee.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, Peter Laing Gordon,
Esq. of Craigmile; Francis Gordon, Esq. of Kincardine; The
Heirs of the late Alexander Brebner, Esq. of Learney ; Misses
Inues of Ballogie; Duncan Forbes Mitchell, Esq. of Thainston ;
William Davidson, Esq. of Kebbity; Miss Scott of Campfield;
Francis G. Fraser of Findrack; Archibald Farquharson, Esq. of
Fincrean; James Lamond, Esq. of Stranduff; Duncan Davidson,
Esq. of Mill of Kincardine; and Mr Ross of Cochrane's Croft,
who holds between two and three acres of land in feu from the
Laird of Kincardine, and who is the oldest proprietor in the parish.
   Antiqiuties.-Tradition says that a bede-house or asylum for
the support of eight old men existed in this village in the times of
Popery; that it was established and supported by a quondam bi-
shop of Aberdeen ; but that it became extinct at the Reforma-
tion.  No traces of house or funds now remain.
   Parochial Registers.-Our parish registers of baptisms and mar-
riages do not extend beyond the commencement of the last cen-
tury; and, it appears, had for many years been very irregularly
kept.  Parents are very careless in not registering the births of
their children.
   Modern Buildings.-A very neat addition to his mansion-house
   ABERDEEN                                    3 G


