

				CAMERON.                      311

drains, the tenant being at the expense of quarrying the stones and
driving them. Since the purchase of Kinaldie, lately, considerable
improvements have been made by the proprietor, who has broken up
part of the pasture, in which it has long lain, and is draining and
liming it. He has also built a farm-steading, and made an excel-
lent road to it. At Cameron also, a marked improvement has
taken place within the last fourteen years,-a good road having been
made to the farm, and a farm-house and steading built, enclosing
the land by stone dikes, thorn and beech hedges, and by the
drainage of the land.
   Produce.- The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as fol-
lows:

<TABLE=PRODUCE>
		Grain of all kinds,		L. 14400
		Potatoes, turnips and hay	    5700
		Land in permanent pasture,	    1750
		Gardens,			     200
		Thinnings of plantations,      	      50
		Quarrier,       	             500
		Coals,				    2000

Total yearly value of raw produce raised,	L. 24600

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The nearest market-town is St Andrews, where there is a post-
office and daily post, distant about 3 1/2 miles from the manse, which
is situated about the centre of the parish. Ample means of com-
munication are enjoyed by the inhabitants with the surrounding
country. There is a turnpike road from St Andrews to the south
coast, which passes through the centre of the parish, a little to the
eastward of the manse, along which a coach from St Andrews to
Largo passes three days a-week to meet the steam-boat from Edin-
burgh. There is another turnpike from Newport ferry, opposite
Dundee, to the Forth, which passes through the west part of the
parish, and these are joined together by another at Higham Loan.
A great improvement has taken place in the district within, these
few years, by the opening of a new line of road a little to the south,
east of the manse to the east, where it joins the St Andrews road
to Anstruther at Wakefield. Formerly great inconvenience was
experienced from the want of more direct means of communica-
tion to the south and east coast, as the only way at that time for
a carriage was to go by the road leading by Balcarres dikes, which
is now entirely obviated. There are ten bridges in the parish, and
three leading into it, which are all in good repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.- The church is nearly in the centre of the
parish, betwixt two and three miles distant from the extremities on

