
232                          RENFREWSHIRE.

possession of his house; but the locks were found filled with
stones and other articles, and the baillies refused to break open the
doors.  On Mr Boyd retiring, he was grossly assaulted by the
women, with opprobrious speeches, the men having purposely ab-
sented themselves.  They threw dirt and stones at him, actually
compelling him to leave Paisley, and retire to Glasgow.  A complaint
was made by the Bishop of Glasgow, of the disgraceful treatment
of this worthy clergyman ; but little or no justice was administer-
ed to him, the noble aggressors being allowed to depart, on pro-
mising to repossess the minister, and allow him the peaceful enjoy-
ment of his house,  The "rascally women," as Wodrow calls them,
also escaped merited punishment.  Trochrig, however, never again
exercised his ministry at Paisley, but died at Edinburgh, on the
5th of January 1627, * in the forty-ninth year of his age.
   Mr John Hay is mentioned as having succeeded Mr Boyd in
his charge, on the 21st May 1627.  He had been formerly mi-
sister of Killellan, and he afterwards left Paisley to fill his father's
place in Renfrew, about the year 1628.
   Mr John Crighton, who is denominated parson of Campsie, was
admitted to this charge, by licence of the Archbishop of Glasgow,
on the 1st of September 1629.  He was a man of a singular cha-
racter, and having been accused of erroneous doctrine, and other
misdemeanours, he was deposed by the General Assembly held at
Glasgow, on the 21st of November 1638.
   Henry Calvert, his successor, was ordained on the 1st July 1641.
It was this incumbent who made provision for a colleague mini-
ster, and the reason assigned for this is, that the charge had be-
come "an over great burden to one."  His colleague was appoint-
ed in October 1644.  A few years after this arrangement had been
entered into, it appears that Mr Calvert's health had become in-
firm, for in October 1650, his confirmed disability induced him-
self and his colleague, with the parishioners of Paisley, to sup-
plicate the presbytery to concur with them, in inviting, Mr John
Drysdale, who had left Ireland on account of persecution, to sup-
Ply Mr Calvert's place.  The presbytery having acceded to their
wish, Mr Drysdale was appointed assistant to Mr Calvert, with
a stipend of 700 merks, provided by the parish, during Mr Cal-
vert's lifetime.  On Mr Calvert's death, and the succession of
Mr Dunlop, his colleague, to the first charge, the second charge

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow's life of Trochrig, MS. as referred to by Mackie, in his Hist. Descrip.
of Abbey and Town of Paisley.


