
198                        WIGTONSHIRE.

land, find their way to the London market, where they are much
esteemed.
        Manufactures.-In 1822, a woollen mill was set agoing by the
Messrs Milroy. It stands on the north bank of the Tarff, and at
a convenient distance from the village. This is a thriving esta-
blishment, which affords employment and the means of subsistence
to a considerable number of persons. The articles of manufacture
are blankets, plain and pilot cloths, plaidings and flannels. The
Tarff water, from its softness, is well adapted for the purposes of
dyeing and milling. There is, too, such a declivity in its course
for two miles above where it joins the Bladenoch, as would afford
ample power for propelling machinery to a much greater extent.
        Quarries.-There is a quarry of blue-stone, the greywacke of
geologists, about a mile and a half east from the village, which
affords an excellent material for building. Granite, in large blocks,
is to be met with throughout the parish, and is much used for mak-
ing lintels, door-posts, &c. to the houses, and serves the twofold
end of increasing their stability and beauty. Slate (transition
clay-slate) was discovered in one of the hills (Culvennan) about
thirty years ago, but proved to be of such inferior quality, that it
was soon abandoned.
                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The number of families attending the Es-
tablished Church is 263; of families connected with the Secession
and Relief, 21; of families connected with the Reformed Presby-
tery, 7; of Roman Catholic families, 13.
	The teinds of the parish are exhausted, and wholly converted,
into a money stipend. The stipend of the parochial minister
amounts to L.292, 11s. 8d.
        Education.-There are only two schools in the parish. The
salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the minimum; and his
school fees amount to about L.35 a-year. He has also L.5 a-
year as postmasters.
        Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid is
33; and the allowances to each, according to the necessities of the
claimants, vary from L,6, 1Os. to 8s. per annum. The funds arise
from church collections, yielding about L.35 a year; from a volun-
tary assessment of the heritors to the amount of L.25 a year; and
a sum of L.3, 1s. being the interest of a legacy.

	December 1838.


