
624                           PERTHSHIRE.

arbotictilturists___viz. a tendency in larch to disease when planted
where Scots fir has grown___was afforded by a plantation in this
part of the parish. The proprietor, fifteen years ago, having oc-
casion for a considerable quantity of timber for the repair of stead-
ings, &c. cleared off about two acres of Scots fir, and replanted
the ground with oaks and larches, both of which throve to all ap-
eamuce with great vigour; but in thinning out some of thd
larches, which were only intended as nurses for the oaks, they,
were found, though only six years planted, to be in a state of dis-
ease. The whole have since been cut out, and although external-
ly they looked healthy, not an individual plant was sound; from
the root even to the point of the smallest branch, the core was ra-
pidly decaying. The plantations in thd parish are kept in good
order as to thinning and prunig. No periodical felling is adopt-
ed; but occasional cuttings of oak and other hard-wood take place.

                       II.___CIVIL HISTORY.

     Traditionary Account.___There is a vague popular tradition,
that, at a remote period, this parish formed a portion of the parish
of Rhind. Connected with this tradition it is alleged, that the
Tay, which now divides them, instead of joining the Earn where
it now does, took its course from somewhere about Inchyra, along
the braes of the Carse to lnvergowrie, where it formed a junction
with the Earn. The only proof that believers in this tradition
have to urge in behalf of its truth, is derived from the words of an
ancient ballad___no great authority certainly___which speaks of

                "The stannin stanes o' Semmiedores,
                "Be sou the river Tay"__

Present circumstances and appearances are entirely at variance
with the main fact which is alldged in this tradition. The exist-
ing levels are so utterly and obviourly incompatible with the idea
of the Tay having run by the bottom of the Carse braes, that any
one who looks at them must at once dismiss it from his mind.
That, at a period perhaps not very remote, a fresh water lake ex-
tended a considerable way along the braes of Carse, is indicated
not nnly by soils, which have all the characteristics of lacustrine
deposits, but also by beds of the Arundo phragmites, which pre-
sent themselves in various places, and still more decidedly by a
well-defined horizontal ledge or beach, with all the appearance of
having been produced by mechanical action of water. This
ledge is peculiarly distinct along the whole of the north side of St
Madoes parish. It is not unlikely that the traditioni regarding


