
                     BOLESKINE AND ABERTARFF.                 55

were the deer confined to it, or to verdant meadows, they would
soon die amidst the luxurious abundance.
   There are still a good many deer in the parish ; but these grace-
ful and noble animals, which enliven our lonely heaths, and adorn
our barren mountains, are much degenerated and greatly reduced
in number and size.  They have given way to that homely and ti-
mid but more profitable race which contributes so much to our
daily food and raiment.  The hart and the roe seek their food and
shelter in the lower grounds amongst the woods.
   All the interior lakes abound in trout, both red and white, of an
excellent quality; and some years ago salmon was plentiful in Loch
Ness, but since the Caledonian Canal has been opened they have
very much decreased.  The diminution is partly attributed to steam
navigation, but chiefly to the fry missing their proper course to the
sea.  Instead of coming down the River Oich, as of old, they de-
scend by the canal; and, its water being smooth, myriads of them
fall a prey to the voracious pike, and most of those which escape
this foe perish in getting through the locks.
   Botany.-Oaks, ash, fir, and birch are the sorts of timber most
congenial to the soil of this parish.  There is only one tree in it
known to the writer, remarkable for age, size, or form.  It is of that
species which, before the invention of artillery, when the issue of
battle greatly depended on the bow and arrow, was in so much
request.  It is a yew growing on the farm of Foirbeg, on the banks
of Loch Ness.  It is now noticed, however, not on a account of its
magnitude, for it measures in circumference at the bottom only 14 1/2
feet, and in height 33 feet 6 inches; but for its antiquity.  It has
stood for time immemorial.  Tradition itself is silent as to its age.
Its branches are not so extended and luxuriant as might be expect-
ed, because all its visitors, native and strangers, have been strip
ping it of these ornaments.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-Owners.-The chief land-owners are, Mr Fraser of Lo-
vat, Mr Fraser of Foyers, and Mr Fraser of Abertarff.
   Parochial Registers.-In regard to the parochial registers, it
may be observed, that in Abertarff, a separate, partial, and incom-
plete register of baptisms has been kept since January 1737, and
of marriages from November 1739, under the management of the
successive resident missionary ministers at Fort-Augustus.  The
present incumbent had at first followed the same plan, and for se-
veral years the registers were correctly kept; but subsequently, on


