
     of Inveraven.

chle.  It is called the Buitterlach, and was consecrated more
than 40 years ago, by two Popish bishops, to be a burying-
place for the Catholics, but few are yet buried in it.-Ac-
cording to Dr Webster's report, the number of souls was then
2464.-About 28 years ago, when I took an exact list of
all the people in the parish, both old and young, they a-
mounted to 2200; and, in 1779, when another exact ac-
count of the people was taken, they only amounted to
2244 souls.  Of this number 850 are Roman Catholics.

   Heritors, Stipend, School, Poor, etc.-Sir James Grant
of Grant is patron of the parish.  The Duke of Gordon,
and General James Grant of Ballendalloch, are the only he-
ritors in it.  Mrs Penuel Grant, of Kilmachlie, mother of
the late Major William Grant of Ballendalloch, and widow
of the late Captain Alexander Grant of Ballendalloch, who
was brother ot the present General Grant, liferents a great
part of the lands of Kilmachlie, and the whole Davoch of
Morange.  The church seems to have been built upwards
of 200 years ago, as appears from an inscription upon a stone
above the door of an isle. (which at first was joined to the 
church, and intended for a burying-place to the then fami-
ly of Ballendalloch, but was many years ago disjoined from
the church, and is now in ruins), the date of which is

<FOOTNOTE>

*There was in old time also, a chapel and burying place on the east
side of Livet, about half a mile above the Protestant meeting-house, called
Chapel Christ, but very little remains of the chapel are to be seen, and the
burying ground, with what was deposited in it, has been washed away by
a small rivulet, which runs between it and Nevie, and by the water of
Livet.  There was also once a chapel, and burying ground on the west 
side of Aven, in the estate of Kilmachlie, almost opposite to the mouth of
Livet; and the farm-town, in the midst of whole land it is, is from it cal-
ed Chapeltown.  There are evident marks of graves, with stones set up at
the heads of some of them; and hard by is an excellent spring, which emits
a large stream of water.  But none have been buried at this place for time 
immemorial.


