
                            NEW MACHAR.                       1031

which have for their object to improve the respectability and effi-
ciency of that numerous and hitherto much-neglected class of so-
ciety, by rendering certificates of character essential to success,
The wages of labourers are 2s. per day in summer, and 1s. 6d. in
winter. The wages of artisans are proportionally higher.
       	Produce.--The principal crops raised in the parish are barley,
bear, corn, turnips, and potatoes. The price of provisions much
the same as in the neighbouring parishes.
       	Husbandry.--The mode of rotation followed in this parish is
either five or a seven-shift,--the former being, 1. green crop or
fallow; 2. oats or barley sown out with grass seeds; 3. hay; 4.
pasture; 5. oats;--the latter, the same as the former, with this
difference, that the land is allowed to lie three years in grass in-
stead of two, and afterwards is made to carry two white crops in-
stead of one. Modifications of either system are sometimes prac-
tised, according to increased facilities of procuring manure and
other determining circumstances.
       	Live-Stock.--The cattle reared are either the Aberdeenshire
horned and dodded, or crosses with the short-horn and Here.
ford breeds. The policy of corrupting the native breeds of the
country is still a quastio vexata, which time and more experience
only can solve. It is universally found in the Smithfield market,
that pure Aberdeenshire bring a much higher price than the short-
horn or even the finest cross, while, on the other hand, the latter
attain a larger size, and are in general ready for the market a year
sooner.
       	Improvements.--In no parish, perhaps, within the last ten years,
have improvements in agriculture been more vigorously and suc-
cessfully carried on than in this. By draining, liming, and other
applications, not only has a large addition been made to the ex-
tent of arable land in the parish, but the soil in previous cultiva-
tion has been rendered much more productive.
     	Size of Farms.--The farms vary in extent from 45 to 200 acres,
or thereby.
       	Leases.--The duration of leases is nineteen years, and the con-
ditions generally favourable to the occupier. But we have heard
not a few farmers complain that proprietors neglect to inform them,
till within the last year or so, of the expiry of their lease, whether
it is to be renewed or not.
    	Farm-houses and Steadings.--These are for the most part com-
modious, and adapted to the size of the farms.  They have been


