
320                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

	It was in 1709 that the parish of Catterline was united to that
of Kinneff, an addition of 300 merks being made to the living.
         The present parish church was built in 1738, * repaired in 1784,
and again in 1831. It is situated close to the sea, and extremely
inconvenient for a great part of the parishioners. The sittings
furnished are 424, a number insufficient for the parish, and this
evil is rendered the greater, from the circumstance that they are
divided according to the valued rent, in consequence of which ar-
rangement many of the proprietors do not possess nearly the legal
accommodation required by the tenants and their servants.
	The manse was built also in 1738, and has been twice enlarged
and repaired. The stipend consists of 16 chalders, one-half being
barley and the other oatmeal. The value is fixed according to
the fiars prices and paid in money. The two glebes of Kinneff
and Catterline are worth about L.28. The usual allowance of
L.8, 6s. 8d. is made for communion elements.
	The communicants on the roll of the Established Church ave-
rage about 430. The only Dissenters in the parish are eightedn

families of Scottish Episcopalians, two Seceders, three Independ-
ent, and one Berean.
	During the past year there was collected in the church for re-
ligious objects, L.10, 15s. 4d. There is an annual collection for
the Aberdeen Infirmary, amounting to from L.7. to L.8.
  Education.-The history of the parish school of Kinneff forms
an instructive example of the difficulties which the Church of
Scotland has, sometimes met in promoting the interests of educa-
tion. Notwithstanding the repeated acts of the Legislature, en-
joining the heritors of every parish to "provide a commodious
house for a schoole, and modifie a stipend to the schoolmaster,"
we find the kirk-session of Kinneff at a comparatively late period
complaining, that "all endeavours to induce the heritors to call
one to be schoolmaster had been fruitless."  Mr Honeyman, there-
fore, and his elders, considering "the necessity of having a weel
qualified schoolmaster for teaching the youth within the parish,"
resolved of themselves to procure one. On Sabbath, April 8th
1705, the minister intimated from the pulpit that, "conform to
ane act and appointment of the session, he had used his endea-

<FOOTNOTE>The former church, in which the Regalia lay concealed, is thus described as it
stood in the days of the Rev. Andrew Honeyman: It is "a very old fabric, the
walls thereof being supported with eight strong butrishes, and the roof by pillars of
wood, so that probably it is the oldest country church presently possessed and in use
of any in Scotland." Mach. MSS. I. p. 323, Adv. Lib. Jac. v. 4, 21.


