
452                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

on the south-west, by Lasswade; on the west by Liberton; and
on the north-west and north, by Newton. Its figure is very irregu-
lar, but somewhat approaches a gnomon, the limbs of which
lie nearly southeast and south-west. The exterior boundary
stretches from a little below the confluence of the North and South
Esk, in the Duke of Buccleuch's pleasure grounds, nearly south-
east to the Cowden-bog burn, or Cat-well, where it crosses the road
to Cousland, being a distance of about two miles; and from the
same point south-west to where it meets the road to Edinburgh
by Gilmerton, also a distance of about two miles;-while the
shorter sides extend from the new railway bridge over the South
Esk, at the foot of Woodburn Park, south-east to Whitehill, and
south-west to the Brickfield, each line being about a mile and a
half; the distance from Cousland Bridge to Whitehill being about
a mile and a half, and from the Brickfield to the Deanburn, on
the Gilmerton road, also about a mile and a half; while the dis-
tance from the confluence of the North and South Esk, to the
Railway bridge, is about one mile.
   The superficial extent of the parish, therefore, may be esti-
mated at about five square miles.
   The general surface of the parish may be considered as a tole-
rably level plain, interrupted by the course of the streams which
intersect it, and gently rising to the south-east. With the excep-
tion of the town and the pleasure-grounds surrounding the palace,
it consists chiefly of fields and gardens.
   Botany.*-The rural extent of the parish being not great, the
botany of it becomes chiefly limited to a portion of the park, and a
small part along the banks of the South and North Esk. Here art
and nature are indeed so intermingled as in some degree to render
the stations of even native plants often doubtful, particularly where
the outcast of gardens and stray seeds can so readily find a con-
genial soil and climate. The following British species, subject
to the correction now stated, may be given; some of which are
characteristic of climate, and others useful for medicinal and eco-
nomical purposes.

<FOOTNOTES>The account of the botany, zoology, geology, hydrography and meteorology fur-
nished by Dr Thomas Aitken, Edinburgh.
    Those marked thus* are apparently introduced; and those thus, though
admitted into British Botany, may be considered rather naturalized than native. The
Castanca uwigaris has by some been considered native, and by others, only naturalized:
one of the finest chestnut trees perhaps in Britain occurs in the grounds of Ard-
gartan at the head of Loch Long. The beech of France was remarked by Ceasar
to be wanting in Britain, though it be now generally admitted as indigenous at least
in England. The Prunus ocrasus is considered native, but it is probably the atten-
dant of the Roman conquest.


