
			RUTHERGLEN.                                 381

sociation, as it was called by the covenanters, or rebellion, as it was
termed by the court party. *
	Guthrie gives the following account of this affair in his history
of Scotland: "In the year 1679, immediately after the death of
Sharpe Bishop of St Andrew's, the cruelty of Lord Lauderdale
and his party arose to such a height against the Presbyterians,
that many of them resolved to assert their liberty by taking up arms.
About eighty of them assembled at Ruglen, a young preacher
of the name of Hamilton was declared their head, and on the 29th
May, they drew up a declaration against all the acts of Parliament
relating to religion, and publickly committed them to the flames
of the bonfire that had been lighted up in commemoration of
the day. After a successful engagement with Captain Graham
of Claverhouse, they took possession of the town of Hamilton, and
soon made themselves masters of Glasgow, but were afterwards to-
tally defeated at Bothwell Bridge, by the Duke of Monmouth."
	On 4th June 1690, the presbytery informed the people of Ru-
glen, that, as this was the first meeting after the re-establishment
of the Presbyterian form of government, the only standing go-
vernment of this church, Mr Joseph Drew was directed to go to
Stirling, and preach to the people who had left the west country,
on account of the troubles of the kingdom, and considering the an-
cient and laudable custom of the ministers meeting together at din-
ner on the ordinary days of the presbytery, agree to dine in Alex-
ander Cochrane's house in Glasgow. Mr Dixon the minister of Ru-
glen was prohibited from mentioning various interpretations of
texts, in opposition to one another, and is instructed to give the
interpretation which is agreeable, to the analogy of faith and
the analogy of the text; and if any error is supposed to be taught
it shall not be introduced before the congregation, but represent-
ed to the presbytery, and their direction followed. The curates
were examined on oath as to their knowledge of where the synod
and presbytery records could be found. Some course was to be

<FOOTNOTE>The people of Glasgow seem to have been actuated by a similar spirit to that
to their neighbours in Rutherglen. "The commission of the General Assembly of
the Church of Scotland, deprecating the union with England, appointed a fast to be
kept on Thursday, the 7th of November 1706, to implore divine assistance from
the impending calamity; on which occasion the Rev, James Clark, minister of the
Tron Church, Glasgow, preached from these words in Ezra viii. 21. 'Then I pro-
claimed a fast there, at the river of Ahava, that we might afflict ourselves before our
God, to seek of him a right way for us, and for our little ones, and for all our sub-
stance.' After the discourse was finished, the preacher said  'Wherefore up and be
valiant, for the city of our God.' The people instantly arose, and, along with their
elergyman, hurried to the cross, where they burned the proposed articles of union."


