
     Statistical Account

The lands are inclosed by hedge and ditch.  The hedges
and ditches are frequently in double rows, at the distance of
a few feet from each other,
   There are many valuable plantations both of the different
kinds of hard wood, and the various species of fir.  Some of
these are arrived at their full growth, and young trees are
gradually coming up to supply the waste of the old.  The
number of acres planted will amount to upwards of 200.
There are no natural woods in the parish*.

   Services, etc.-A few services are still performed by the
tenants, such as driving of coals, casting, winnowing, and
driving peats home.  There are a considerable number, too,
of kain hens paid.  There is a public-house in the parish
for the accommodation of travellers.  It has no bad effect on
the morals of the people, who are, in general, a set of sober
and industrious men.  Two great roads pass through this
parish, the one from Edinburgh to Moffat, the other, lately
made, from Peebles to Glasgow.  They are upheld by road-
makers, and are kept in tolerable repair.  The statute labour

<FOOTNOTE>

*In consequence of manufactures established in this, and
particularly in the neighbouring county, there is a great de-
mand for work people.  Servants have of course become ra-
ther scarce in this part of the country.  The wages are rising
every year.  A good ploughman earns 6 guineas, or upwards,
and female servants from 3 L. to 4 L. per annum, with their vic-
tuals, There is no market here for provisions, The butcher
meat is brought from Peebles, Biggar, or Edinburgh.  Butter
is sold, in general, at 8 d. per lib.; ewe milk cheese at 6 s. 6 d.
cow milk at 4 s. per stone; eggs in summer, 4 d. in winter, 6 d.
per dozen, chickens 8 d. a pair; hens 1 s. ducks 10 d. a piece.
Day labourers earn per day, in winter, 6 d. in summer 8 d. with
their victuals. Ditches, casting, and operations of that kind,
are generally done by the piece, from 9 d. to 1 s. the running
rood of 6 yards.  Piece work is preferred by labourers.  Car-
penters wages are 1 s. a day, masons 1 s. 4 d. taylors 8 d.


