
     Statistical Account

under tenants make a shift to perform the services demand-
ed, they would find it impossible to pay an equivalent in mo-
ney were they converted.  The limited services are not esta-
blished by a general rule, and therefore vary on different
estates and tacks.  A tenant of a penny-land on one estate
performs three days in spring with his cattle, five days shear-
ing and leading with horses every leading day, and mealing 16
bolls oats.  A tenant of a penny-land on another estate, is
bound to perform 24 days in spring with labouring cattle, 12
days in harvest, and leading every leading day, and mealing
20 bolls of oats.  Cottagers who possess little more than one-
eighth part of a penny-land, perform services three days e-
very week in spring and harvest, and one in the week during
summer and winter.  The tenants or under tenants are obli-
ged to perform these services every day their master is plea-
sed to call them, perhaps from 20 to 120 days in the year.
The nature of these services is plowing and manuring with
their own cattle-weeding growing corn-cutting, leading
with their own cattle, and building corn-mealing corn-
cutting, caring, and leading hay-carrying victual to a sea-
port, in ordinary to Thurso, from 6 to 8 computed miles di-
stance, or to any distiller in the country-cutting, curing,
and leading peats, which is done by the piece, and running
expresses, but not frequently.  If a well esteemed master
falls behind in his spring or harvest work, his tenants lend
him their help voluntarily, beyond their limited services when
in their power.  Services are still performed, (though mode-
rately) where they have been converted many years ago, not-
withstanding the conversion money is full paid as a part of
the rent.  Hence it appears, that nothing but a prohibitory
law can abolish this practice.  As the tenants and under te-
nants are generally in structioned circumstances, it would be
difficult to devise a method of abolishing services, without


