
		                    PARISH OF MOULIN.

     		PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

		         THE REV. DUNCAN CAMPBELL, MINISTER.



                     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-A STRANGER alive to the sublime and beautiful in na-
    ture's works, in coming to this district would be immediately
    struck with the aspect of five elevated and singularly commanding
    eminences which bound the horizon to the north of the village of
    Moulin.  In the vernacular language they are called Mill-Uaine,
    green mountains, and it is supposed that the greenish appearance
    of these commanding eminences may have given the name both to
    the village and the parish.  Others suggest that the Gaelic for
    the English word Mill, viz. Mullionn, is sufficient to account for
    the name, more especially as the fertile How, so called, was
    known, in olden times, to have been famous for its mill.  Those,
    however, who would thus derive the name, must be rtrangers to
    the manner in which the natives pronounce Moulin, which is very
    different from that given to the Gaelic of Mill.  In the former
    Statistical Account its etymology is thus resolved: " A small lake
    once stood in the neighbourhood of the village, and has been con-
    verted by means of draining into meadow ground.  The word
    Moulin seems to have some reference to this lake; perhaps it may
    be maoth-linne, a smooth pool, or magh-linne, pool field."
       Extent, Boundaries, and Topographical Appearances.-Owing to
    its mountainous character, the extent of the parish is not correctly
    ascertained.  Its length diagonally from the south-west to the north-
    east boundary may be 15 or 16 miles.  As the parish of Logieraie
    projects considerably into it on the south-east, and that, of Blair
    Atholl into the north-west, its figure hs extremely irregular.  It has
    been divided into two districts, the Atholl and the Strathardle district.
    A hill of from three to four miles divides them.  The Strathardle
    section extends in length about 8 miles north-west to south-east,


