
     of Kiltarlity.

three of them lying between these burns, and the fourth
between one of these rivulets and the river Beauly, which
bounds the parish here on the N. W.  These ridges gradu-
ally ascend for near two miles; and near the very sum-
mit of the whole four, there is at present some cultivated
ground*.  Of the foresaid burns, that of Belladrum lies
farthest to the south; and on this burn, about a measured
mile due south of the church, is situated the small beaufitul
glen, called Glen-convent, or parish of Convent or Con-
veth.  A gentle declivity on the north side of this glen is
covered with birch, alder, hazel, and some planted firs.
Small spots of cultivated ground are interspersed through
the birch wood, which forms a beautiful landscape.  In this
glen is some excellent pasture for cattle.  The lower part
of this narrow strath is a good rich deep soil; what lies
higher is a light thin sharp soil; and in favourable seasons
produces very good crops of Scotch bear and oats.  To the
south of this glen lies the place of Cuddierash, which is
the highest ground in culture in all this country; south-east
of the same glen lies Caplach, signifying in Gaelic a moss,
covered with brushwood.  In this place, which is detached
from the rest of the parish, there is a considerable number
of families; and as it is at the distance of about 3 miles of
very bad road, from the parochial school, it seems to be a
very proper station for a society-school.  There is a davoch

<FOOTNOTE>

*But these ridges seem to have been wholly cultivated in some former
period, though now covered with short heath, and very barren; for here
one sees many hundred heaps or small cains of stones, placed irregularly
over the whole ground.  These are unquestionably the stones which our
forefathers took out of these barren moors in cultivating them.  When the
neighbouring low grounds were wholly covered with wood, and infected
by the wolf, and British tiger, or wild cat, our progenitors lived by
hunting, and by cultivating small portion of the higher grounds.  The
present inhabitants, of the higher parts of this parish, throw the stones
they take out of their fields in irregular heaps over them, in the very
same form with those described in these barren moors.
 

