
84                          PERTHSHIRE.

appearance of wisdom, but to those who know how to control the pas-
sions and prejudices of man, it has the reverse.  In some of our burghs,
there has, for some years past, appeared a disposition to diminish
or abstract altogether the badges of magisterial office, on the ground
of their serving no purpose but that of ostentatious parade.  The
proper dignity of our municipal officers may be lowered, but cannot
be raised by such a paltry and impolitic modd of proceeding.  The
magistrates of Perth, in olden times, consulted what was becom,
ing their rank, and how they should appear before the public
eye, as the rulers of the City.  Thus, in 1688, they were among the
nobility and other attendants on the funeral of Lord Strathallan,
and it stands on record that they appeared there attended by their
trumpeter.*
   It may not be out of place here to mention, that in the list of
chief magistrates, there appear the names not only of the princi-
pal burgesses, but of the most distinguished noblemen and gentle-
men of the neighbourhood, some of whom had residences in the
town.  I may mention the following: the Earl of Gowrie, the Earl
of Montrose, the Earl of Athole, Lord Ruthven, Viscount Stor-
mont, Sir Patrick Thriepland of Fingask, Sir William Murray
of Tuilibardin, Thomas Chartres, a descendant of Thomas a
Longueville, who came from France with Wallace, ancestor of the
Kinfauns family.  His famed two-handed sword is preserved to the
present day in Kinfauns Castle.
   Before the passing of the Reform Bill, the burgh was one of
four (Perth, Dundee, Cupar, Forfar, St Andrews,) which sent a
representative to Parliament.  The inhabitants had no voice in the
matter.  The council appointed a delegate, who, with the dele-

<FOOTNOTE>  In a former age the magistrates of Perth had a very distinguished official im-
portance and authority.  The chief magistrate wore a cloak of office, and carried "a
bend rapier."  The other magistrates carried "white staves."  Their officers or ser-
geants were six, and on particular occassions seven in number, clothed, as at present,
in red Fleming, and wore swords, and attended them daily.  In church the Lord Pro-
vost's seat was "lined and covered with velvet."  There was also at their command
a city marshall, a trumpeter, a drummer, a piper, and a swasher.
   In the records there is "an act for repairing the foot mantle and livery for the
lacqueys, with the bridle and stirrup-leather against the Provost going to Parlia-
ment,"-and ther is in the records, 1678, an entry, that there were deposited "in
the council-house four pairs of colours, as officer's coat with lace, two suits of livery
cloaths, with fustian doublets, for lacqueys at Parliament, foot mantle with other
horse furniture-a saddle only excepted, and the town's trumpet.
   The magistrates of those times consulted what became the dignity of the ancient
city,-the former metropolis of the kingdom, by observing the feudal acts of hospita-
lity to strangers and visitors of distinction.  The entertainment, except on extraordi-
nary occurences, was according to hte practice then fallowed, very simple, "wine
and spices," i. e. spiced wine; and the visits of strangers, and the reception given to
them, appear to have been regularly adverted to in the council minutes.


