
                            KINROSS.                           21

also, throughout the parish, quickset thorn hedges, sometimes in-
terspersed with beeches. These, when planted i\n1 a good soil, and
duly attended to, become a complete protection to the fields they
enclose, and an ornament to the country. But, from the poverty
and shallowness of the land in which young plants are often set,
and still more from leaving them almost entirely to themselves,
and driving stakes through the heart of them, and neither preserv-
ing them from the inroads of cattle, nor being at any pains to fill
up gaps,-they become worse than useless, and an eye-sore.
   Ecclesiastical State.--Of the parish church, as one of the new
buildings of Kinross, some mention has already been made. It
may be added, that it is not four miles distant from the extremity
of the parish. It is in the Gothic style. Its architect, Mr George
Angus, built subsequently, and much after the same design, the
churches of Tulliallan and Kettle.
   Connected with this new church, the only benefaction was from
an individual, who mentions it entirely from the wish and hope
that it may contribute to a great public good, and lead others, as
it has already done in one instance, to follow his example. The
example which is now referred to, is a donation of L. 100 to make
sure that this new church should be built. There was also sub-
scribed by the same person, as much more for pews to himself, and
to others who might require them, and from whom be has never
once applied for seat rents or any thing in the shape of such; al-
though, it must be added, that some who are most accustomed
to earn their daily bread with the sweat of their brow, are the most
unwilling to permit themselves to lie under what they regard a pe-
cuniary obligation.
   On the 11th of March 1832, the new church was opened for
public worship; and it is worthy of notice, that, within a year there-
after, nearly 200 names were added to the minister's visitation
roll; and that since the above day, there has not been a single Sab-

   <FOOTNOTE>The bell was got from London after the building of the new church, and was
substituted for the bell which belonged to the old church, and which was permitted to
remain in the old steeple once connected with the old church, but now standing by it-
self in the centre of the town. A still older bell of the same church, and which was
rendered useless on some days of public rejoicing had this legend,
                     " Voco ad verbum, verbum ad Christum.
   How much in sense and in round does the legend of our tower bell suffer in com-
parison,
                      "Invito ad verbum, verbum ad Christum!"
And to whom, acquainted with the writings of Pope, does it not suggest the well-
known lines:
                      "TO ease the cushion and soft Dean invite,
                       Who never mentions Hell to ears polite!"


