
                             GLASGOW.                         155

pletely idle. Besides, the hand-weavers had a long period of high
wages, averaging far above the rates paid for labour in other more la-
borious and skilful professions. This arose from the rapid extension
of their trade; and now, in its decline, they must be contented with
the lower rate of wages, until their superabundant labour is absorbed
by other trades in a state of advancement. This process has been
slowly going on within the last few years, and the wages of hand-
loom labour are now rather advancing. During the rise of hand-
loom weaving in the west of Scotland, the high wages and constant
excitement applied by rival manufacturers, and their agents, led
to much dissipation, especially among the younger men, and the
bulk of the class became prone to dissolute habits; still, however,
many well educated, intelligent, and decent men were to be found
amongst them; now the bulk of the class are sober, frugal, intel-
ligent men, which shows that high wages neither lead to decency
nor intelligence,--the sure basis of happiness. It has invariably
happened in this manufacturing community, that, when any class
of operatives obtained for a time wages much above the other
classes, they have in general become dissipated, and they are found
living in more miserable ill-furnished dwellings, than those having
the very lowest rates of wages. Various expedients have from time
to time been resorted to by several of the trades, with a view to
raise or maintain their wages, such as long apprenticeships, heavy
fees, and the like; and of late, trades unions have been much in
vogue, many of them having rules and practices surpassing the
closest corporations, and outvieing the fiercest tyranny of the dark-
est ages; and it is strange, that, although these unions have in
most of the trades been successively overthrown, still new unions
urge the hopeless combat.
	It bespeaks deplorable ignorance in the mass of the operatives,
who have so allowed themselves to be led by a few designing and
selfish knaves; and submit to be urged by the violent wrong-head-
ed fools of their order,--a class to be found in all communities.
That the schoolmaster has been successfully abroad, there can be
no doubt; and that the working-classes are becoming more intel-
ligent, every good man must observe with delight; but they are
as yet in the transition state, at the point when a "little learning
is a dangerous thing." They are like raw recruits with good wea-
pons in their hands, more likely to wound their neighbour, or
themselves, than to make a successful assault on the enemy. Be-
fore they can be called intelligent, or find themselves truly power-


