
			   MELDRUM.                       481

ed.  From the year 1726, and for a long period thereafter, the
town of Old Meldrum was governed by two bailies nominated by
the superior ; but at present there is no local magistrate, and
no regular system of police.
   Means of Communication.-Since the year 1804, this parish has
enjoyed excellent means of communication, both with the south
and north, by the turnpike road which was opened at that time be-
tween Aberdeen and Banff, which passes through Old Meldrum,
and for the distance of six miles through the parish.  Upon this
road, two carriers belonging to Old Meldrum go from it to Aber-
deen, and return every week, and one of them twice a week.  The
distance is seventeen miles and three-quarters.  A post from the
south, and another from the north passes twice a day through Old
Meldrum, where there is a post-office.  There is a stage-coach on
the turnpike road, which affords both an economical and expedi-
tious mode of travelling.
   Ecclesiastical State.-When the parish church was removed
from Bethelnie, the present one was built in the close vicinity of
Old Meldrum.  It is most likely that this situation was chosen
in order to accommodate the people of Old Meldrum, which at
that time had probably a considerable population, and now con-
tains nearly three-fifths of the whole inhabitants of the parish.
The rural district in the neighbourhood of Old Meldrum is also the
most populous.  The church, upon the whole, is centrical, taking for
the criterion its vicinity to the greatest number of the people, as
probably not above a tenth part of the present population reside
beyond the distance of three miles from it.  It affords accommo-
dation to about 700 persons; but it is too small for the parish,
and many who want seats in it cannot obtain them.  The first
and oldest part of the manse was built about the year 1710; a
small addition to it was built in the year 1813, and a larger in
the year 1829 ; it is now a most comfortable and commodious
house.  The glebe measures between 10 and 11 imperial acres.
The stipend was last augmented in 1832, and is now 16 1/2 chal-
ders, half meal, half barley, with L. 8, 6s, 8d. for, communion ele-
ments.  The ministers of this Episcopal and Secession chapels are
paid by the seat-rents and contributions of their bearers, and they
have each a house and garden.  The Dissenters do not perhaps
exceed a tenth part of the whole population.  Divine service is
well attended, and the number of communicants in the Established
Church is above 800.


