
                           COMRIE.                          581

sembled. There has been no plausible theory of the causes of
these local earthquakes; their centre seems to be about the round
hill above Comrie; they have been felt at twenty miles distance,
but their effects at no time have been serious. Probably there is
some connection between the earthquakes and the numerous ex-
tinct volcanoes in this neighbourhood.
   Topographical Appearances.-The scenery around Loch Earn,
and along the river Earn, is rugged and picturesque, richly wood-
ed on both sides, and hardly if at all inferior to the scenery of the
Trosachs in the next parish. There is a beautiful cascade at
Glenbeich, on the north side of Lochearn, seldom visited and little
known. There are several on the Lednock, particularly the Cal-
dron, a mile from Comrie, and a few on the smaller streams, as at
Dunira, Aberuchill, and Ardvorlich. Few parishes can abound more
in varied and striking natural beauties. The views from Lord Mel-
ville's monument above the village of Comrie, and from the road
to Glenartney, are peculiarly fine. The road from Crieff to Loch-
earnhead passes through a district that is surpassed in natural and
acquired beauties perhaps by no other of equal extent in the High-
lands, and being within so convenient a distance from Edinburgh,
Glasgow, Perth, and Dundee, is well worth the attention of tourists.
   Geology.-The prevailing rock of this district, in common with
the other parts of the Grampian range, is the mica slate, con-
taining in the western part of the parish, at Lochearnside and
in Glenartney, a very extensive bed of primitive limestone. Granite
also occurs in Glen Lednock, and extensive rocks of clay-slate in
Glenartney. In the lower part of the parish, as well as in Glen-
artney, the old red sandstone formation occurs, and also conglo-
merate, or plum-pudding stone.  Marble has been found at Ardvor-
lich. Lead has been met with in small quantities. Iron ore is
abundant, and seems at a remote period to have been wrought to
a considerable extent.  Many remains of furnaces for smelting iron
are to be seen in different parts of the parish.
   Clay occurs rarely, and is mixed with sand. The soil is al-
most universally a light, sharp gravel, abounding with stones, and
not very fertile.  In some parts of the glens, it approaches more
to a loamy nature.
   Zoology.-Of rarer animals there are found the red-deer and
roe in considerable numbers.  At the head of Glenartney, to the
south-east of Benvorlich, Lord Willoughby de Eresby has a pre-
serve of red-deer, containing several hundreds.  It was here that


