
112                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

wheel is a work of considerable extent, and deserves notice. It
is composed of wood, is 700 feet long, 7 feet wide, and 2 feet
deep, and is supported on stone pillars neatly built, with iron and
wooden pillars between. It passes below the bridge crossing the
burn, about 10 feet above its surface, and conveys a large body
of water.
    The beauty of the 6situation and scenery of this establishment
is much admired. The extent of artificial works, the large pile of
buildings on the left, the spacious reservoir on the right, with an
occasional cascade over its dike; the aqueduct, supported in the
air, with its large column of rolling water passing under the spa-
cious bridge, with the surrounding rocks and woods,-all at this
point burst upon the eye of the traveller, and present to his view
a combination of the beauties of nature and the works of art in a
variety and to an extent seldom if ever to be met with in so nar-
row a compass.
    3d, Nearly a mile farther up the hollow, on the burn of Leuchar,
in 1831, a mill was erected for carding and spinning wool, and for
manufacturing coarse woollen cloth. This establishment is in-
creasing. It at present gives employment to 16 persons.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Town.-Our nearest market and post-town is Aberdeen.
    Means of Communication.-The Dee side turnpike, one of the
best public roads in the north, runs through the southern district
of the parish nearly four miles. The mail-coach to and from
Aberdeen and the Castletown of Braemar passes daily, with one
other public coach, which runs between Aberdeen and Banchory
in summer. These are principally employed by visitors from Aber-
deen to the various favourite residences on Dee side, more especially
to Ballater, near to which place are the famous wells of Pannanich.
The Skene turnpike runs through the back part of the parish about
a mile. The cross accommodation roads are sufficiently good.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church was built in 1779: it
contains 550 sittings; is a neat substantial building, in a thorough
state of repair; is situated on the bank of the river, near the middle
of the southern boundary of the parish; and is very well attended.
The manse is 150 years old, and has undergone considerable re-
pairs and alterations. In 1826, an addition of two rooms was
made to it, which makes it sufficiently comfortable and commodi-
ous. The offices are old and thatched, but in an ordinary state
of repair. The glebe, including the garden and the stance of
			     3


