
556                        PERTHSHIRE.

the most handsome school-rooms in the Highlands of Perthshire,
for the parish, with suitable accommodation to the teacher.
   A most splendid manse and court of offices werd also lately
erected for the accommodation of the minister; to the building of
which the heritors agreed, without any solicitation on his part.
   The church, a very old fabric, though as firm as the surround-
ing rocks, was newly seated, roofed, ceiled, lathed and plastered
about the year 1821. It bears every mark of having been a Po-
pish construction; and is rather inconveniently narrow, particular-
ly at the time of dispensing the Sacrament, when immense crowds
attend from the surrounding districts.
   Education.-There are 12 schools in the parish, viz. the paro-
chial school; 2 schools on the General Assembly's scheme; 2 on
that of the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge; and 7 others supported by families, which, being remote
from the established schools, join in hiring a young lad, to teach
their children, during four or five months of the winter only. All
are, however, connected with the Established Church. The pa-
rochial teacher has the legal accommodations to the full, and the
maximum salary, besides an allnwance for a garden. The Assem-
bly teachers have each a free house, croft, and cow's grass, and a
salary of L.20. Those of the Society have the same emoluments
as the Assembly teachers, with a salary of L.15 or L.20, and a few
pounds for fuel. The amount of fees received by the teachers of
the Assembly and Society schools, owing to the indigence of the
inhabitants in their neighbourhoods, is merely nominal, or quite in-
considerable.
   Poor.-The number of persons receiving parochial aid is from
60 to 70, throughout the whole parish. The weekly collections at
the churches may amount to about L.50 per annum. Some of the
poor get only 10s. or 12s; others L.1 or L.1, 10s. In cases of
emergency, the heritors meet, and assess themselves for the sup-
port of extraordinary paupers and lunatics, sometimes to the extent
of L.60 or L.80.
   Rannoch, Glenlyon and Fortingal have each their separate kirk-
sessions and boxes for the poor; and each district may collect
L.16 or L.18, which goes to the support of their own paupers,
while the heritors' assessment is for the whole parish generally.
   Few of our poor go about begging,-none in this section of the
parish. Still we are infested by a great many vagrants from the
great towns of the south. Our poor are thankful and patient un-


