
     of Avoch.

   The distress of the widows having thus been mitigated,
particularly until such of them as had been left pregnant were
delivered, and nursed their infants, they have almost all now
returned to proper habits of industry, sufficient to support
themselves and their families, Such examples, it is hoped,
will not be thought misplaced in this record, because they
not only, in their measure do honour to human nature, but
may tend to encourage others to "do likewise," in similar
cases!
   The deficiency of crop 1762 was severely felt in this parish,
except by some farmers near the shore.  But from the great
quantities of corn then imported, and the seasonable supply
sent by Government for the poor, it is not believed, that any
person here died then of want.  And the more industrious
tenants have since compleatly recovered from the effects of
that year, upon their little stock and credit.

   General Character of the Inhabitants.-The parishioners
here are mostly of a middle size, strong and healthy, and
capable of enduring a good deal of fatigue and labour.  There
may be 8 or to men among them six feet high; and very
few dwarfs or deformed persons are to be seen^^.

<FOOTNOTE>

llThe inhabitants of the country part are generally but in poor circumstan-
ces. Hence they feel many straits in bringing up their families.  This, with the
scarcity and increased wages of servants, obliges some of them to put their chil-
dren to hard work rather too soon; even the greater farmers, who, as they raise
bread for many others, should have it in their own power to bye pretty com-
fortably in their sphere, enjoy here but few of the comforts, and none of the
luxuries of life; except, perhaps) in the use of spirituous liquors, to which both
they and the fisherman have become of late too much addicted.  This has taken
place almost entirely of that wholesome strengthening beverage, good beer,
which their fathers harmlessly quaffed.  The present generation are, indeed,
better clothed; but they eat less and coarser bread, and have, perhaps, less
ready money.  Their houses also are for most past miserably dirty, smoaky,


