
        42                        PERTHSHIRE.

        from taxationis for ellewin zeiris, pthairoff the maist part ar past
        alredie.  This zour Mj moist princellie fawour maid the peopile the
        moir willing to contribute of their awin, till now that the Lordis of
        your Mj hienes counsell will not allow the same without zour Mj
        speciall command, quhilk, gif it be directed, they haif promesed
        to gave their willing consent thairunto; and thairfor we craive that
        zour Mj wald direct commandment to thame, otherwayis the pay-
        ment thairof by our peopill will compell ws to interrupt the wark.
        As to ws, we baif no moir to offer to zour Mj than our selff; or giff
        it be possibill we can do ony moir than we ar, we vow to zour Mj
        the multiplicatioun of our best thochtis and affectionis to zour Mj
        serwise, wissing the samen mynd in all zour Mj subjectis, than the
        quhilk we knaw that yourselff crawis nothing moir, being asking
        qwho hes alwayis thocht that ama . . . . . dili . . est
        imperio.  And thairfoir hes ewer lowit amang zour Mj weill affect-
        ed subjectis sine contemptis facilis sine terrore reverendus.  And
        thairfoir, wissing from our heartis now, and in our daylie prayeris,
        that zour Mj may long regne owir ws, protectit be Aliniebtie God
        from all zour enemies, we rest, commending to zour Mj all our maist
        humble services, Perth, 7 September 1607 zear, moist humble
        and obedient subjectis.  Sic sub\r Robert Mathew, Baillie; James
        Drummond, Moderator; James Adamson, Dene of Gilde; Hen-
        rie Ellder, Clerk."
           To this letter the King returned an answer in the month of
        February 1608, granting exemption to the town from taxation,
        "for the furtherance of the building of the brig."
           Royal Visit.-In 1617, James came to Scotland and made a tour
        through several of the principal towns.  Before he came to Perth,
        his visit was announced by authority to the town-council.  The cir-
        cumstances which characterized this event are peculiar, and, as
        they are not generally known, I shall briefly narrate a few of them.
        The annunciation produced no ordinary excitement.  The chief
        concern of the functionaries was how to provide for his Majesty's
        suitable reception and entertainment.  But his Majesty appears
        to have taken care that his dignity and comfort should be duly
        consulted.  From the secret council there came a missive to "pro-
        vide fed beef anent his Majesty's coming to the toun." To de-
        fray the expense, an order was issued by the town-council to stent
        the inhabitants for 2000 merks, and again for an additional l000.
        While preparations were proceeding, there came from Edinburgh
        two missives from the secret council, which, from what we know


