
                                BRESSAY.                          15

      The weight of one fleece may be from one to two or three
      pounds.
         Quarries.-Stone quarries for the purpose of building may be
      here found almost in any place.  Slate and flug is shipped from
      the quarries in Bressay, for the different parts of this country, and
      on some occasions is carried to the southern coasts.  In these
      quarries, a dozen of men and boys are employed, at wages of 10d.
      or Is. a day.
         Fisheries.-The ling-fishing is called the haaf or far-fishing.
      Bressay sends to it thirteen or more boats, 18 or 20 feet in keel;
      Quarff, four ditto; Burra, ten, of 15 feet keel.  Of the largest of
      these, each boat carries fifty bughts or lines, each bught being
      fifty fathoms in length.  The expense of outfit of one of these
      boats, may be from L.20 to L.26.  In each, there are commonly
      six sharers; but if a man is needed to complete the crew, he
      may be hired sometimes for L.1, 1Os., or a sum between that and
      L.3.  A haaf boat may be hired for the season for L.2, 8s.
         On this fishing, the Bressay and Quarff people have to proceed
      far to the eastward, sometimes till they lose sight of land.  The
      Quarff people have to leave their homes during the week, and to
      lodge at Noss as a fishing station, where others also, from differ-
      ent parishes, are collected, and have a few shillings to pay for the
      use of the huts in which they are accommodated; those from
      Bressay set off from their own homes.  Both of these, and also all
      who fish to the eastward, must be at open sea at least for one, some -
      times for two nights.  The Burra people do not need to go farther
      out to sea than one mile, their lines being set in the evening, and
      drawn on their return in the morning.
         From their employers they receive at present 6s. 6d. for the
      cwt. of wet ling, and 4s. 6d. for the tusk and cod, which they bring
      from this fishing.  The accounts I have received of the fishermen's
      profits differ somewhat.  A gentleman, whose knowledge ought
      to be accurate, stated to me from his books, that the average pro-
      fit of each man for the season was from L.4 to L.5.  The ave-
      rage amount of the Bressay ling-fishing may be about seventy cwt.
      in a season to,each boat.  Of the Quarf fishing, fifty cWt.  Of
      the Burra fishing, eighteen cwt.
         The cod-fishing to the west and south west of this country em-
      ploys many hands, and begins about Whitsunday; being carried
      on by small sloops of between fifteen and twenty tons.  From the
      whole of this parish, six or mom sloops of this kind are sent to it,


