
          396                        PERTHSHIRE.

          or three and a half miles, except at one place, where the distance is
          between four and five miles; but where there are not more than
          five or six families. It was built in 1831, and is in the best possible
          repair.  The only benefactions on record do not exceed L. 600,
          the interest of which is devoted to assist in the support of the poor.
          There is nothing particularly interesting, connected with the his-
          tory of these charitable bequests.  The number of persons, for
          whom the church affords accommodation, is 1448.
             All the sittings are possessed by the occupants, free of seat rent.
          With the exception of those which are allocated to the poor, and
          of a certain proportion of the communion table seats, which has
          been assigned for the promiscuous occupancy of those parishioners
          who neither possess nor are connected with an farm or pendicle,
          they are all apportioned to particular individuals ; but no heritor
          derives any emolument from any of the sittings ; neither do the
          heritors as a body.
             The manse was built in 1798, and repaired in 1820.
             The extent of the glebe, including the ground occupied by the
          manse, offices, and garden, is 4 acres, 2 roods, 11 falls, Scotch
          measure ; but not less than 2 1/4 roods have been lost in the con-
          struction of a road to the manse, and by the establishment of a right
          of servitude over another part of the glebe.  The annu`l value of
          the glebe and garden may be between L. 15 and L. 20.
            The amount of the stipend, not including L.8, 6s. 8d. allowed
          for communion elements, is 9 chalders * of barley, and 9 chalders
          of oatmeal, at the highest fiars prices of the county.  The average
          value of these quantities of barley and meal, for the last ten years,
          has not exceeded L.273, 1s. 8d.
             There are three Dissenting chapels in the parish.  Two of them
          belong to the United Secession Church, and the other belongs to
          the Relief Church.  Their ministers are paid out of the seat rents,
          and in as far as these are inadequate to make the stipulated sums,
          the deficiency is supplied by contributions among the members.  In
          the case of the oldest of the three, the sum to which the minister
          is entitled, is L. 130, exclusive of a free house and garden.  In the
          case of both the others, the stipend is now only L.80, with the
          ordinary addition of a free house and garden.  These statements
          are made on the authority of information which the writer believes
          to be authentic, though not official.

          <FOOTNOTE>1 Chalder of barley is equal tu 11 qrs. 5 bush. 0 pk. 1.6150 gal. imperial mea-
	  sure ; ond chalder of oatmeal is exactly equal to 160 stones.


