
     of Alloa.

have been foreseen; however, they continued, though with
small advantage, till a law-suit was carried on against them
by the town of Stirling; and the mode of pock nets being
condemned, on an old act of parliament, they were restrained
within certain limits, from fishing in that manner; and the
fishing, since that time, has been mostly abandoned^.-After
passing the ferry of Craig Ward, the river becomes narrower;
and there are some beautiful islands, which are called Inches.
These furnish excellent pasture for cattle during the summer,
and are esteemed medicinal for such as are weakly or sick.
They are a gentle kind of salt marsh, as they are entirely
covered with water in spring tides.  There Inches are fre-
quented by great quantities of water fowl, viz. wild ducks,
teals, widgeons, gulls, etc. etc.  Here they find shelter, and
variety of food suited to their nature.  Sometimes scarts, or
cormorants, gooseanders, etc. appear here.  The stormy pet-
terels, or what the sailers call Mother Cary's chickens, were seen
about the Ferry last winter; and one of them was killed by
Mr. Erskine, junior.  It was thought singular to see these
birds, who seldom appear near the land, so far up the country.
Upon the point of these inches, they erect what are called
yares, a sort of scaffold projecting into the water; upon which
they build little huts to protect them from the weather; from
these scaffolds they let down, at certain times of the tide, their
nets, and are often very successful in taking the smaller fish,
such as herrings, garvies, or sprats, sparling, or smelts, small
whitings, haddocks, sea trouts, and eels.  In this manner sal-

<FOOTNOTE>

^Had this restraint operated as it ought to have done, and obliged them to
have exchanged their method, and employed the long nets, the best effects
would probably have followed.  The excuse generally given for not trying it,
is the depth of water, and soulness of the bottom.  The last, it is thought
might be partly remedied; and the success which attends this method, a little
farther west, and in the same parish, gives great encourangement to make the
experiment.


