
		               UDNY.		                  135

<TABLE>
   An ox of 7 cwt. costs L.2, 10s. for grazing.
About 25 tons of butter sold annually, at L.60 per ton,       .    L.1500  0  0
      16 tons of cheese	                  L.28    -            .      448  0  0
Eggs, at 4d. per dozen,       .                  .             .      182  0  0
                                                                 ---------------
                                       			           L.14,290  0  0

   Formerly, a considerable sum was realized annually for poultry.
Now, the farmers can afford to use all their poultry themselves,
and none is sold but by the cottars and tenants on small possessions.
   The butter and cheese, especially the former, made in this pa-
rish, are considered of superior quality.  This is owing to most of
the land being on an open or rocky bottom, producing fine grass.
   The land is managed generally under a six or seven shift.  In the
former case, which only answers with the better land, one-half of the
farm is tinder grain, one-third under grass, and one-sixth under tur-
nips and potatoes.  There is little clay land in the parish, and con-
sequently little fallow.  All the farmers have small gardens for rais-
ing vegetables for their families.  In many of them are raised
gooseberries and currants, and a few apples.
   At Pitmedden, the seat of Sir William C. Seton, is one of the
finest and best laid out gardens in the north of Scotland.  It was
made at a great expense, about the middle of the seventeenth
century, and produces apples and pears, especially the former,
superior to any in Scotland.

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-A post-office was established in the
centre of the parish about three years ago, by the influence of the
Earl of Aberdeen, who does everything his Lordship can for the
good of the country.  There is a daily post from Aberdeen.  A
turnpike from Aberdeen leading north, and another from New-
burgh, the nearest port, distant seven miles, leading west, cross
each other in the centre of the parish.  The line of turnpike be-
tween Aberdeen and Meldrum passes through the west part of
the parish, nearly parallel with the road from Aberdeen through
the centre of the parish.  A public coach passes and repasses
daily on both the turnpikes from Aberdeen.  All the streams
which public roads cross have excellent stone bridges.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated within half-a-mile
of the north boundary of the parish-rather inconveniently for
people in the south end of the parish.  It was built in 1821, and
seated for 750.  The seats are all rent-free and the church is
very commodious, with a neat low spire.
   The manse was built in 1759, and repaired and enlarged in


