
         204                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

            The rates of mechanical work may be stated as follows: Mason-
         work, 9d. per yard; plaster-work, 2d. per do.; weaving from 4d.
         to 7d. per do.; netting, 6d. per pound; spinning, 2 1/2d. per do.;
         smith-work from 6d. to 9d. per lb., or 2d. per do., not including
         the iron; sawing 3d. per 100 feet,or 1/2d. per stave. A wooden
         plough, mounted, can be purchased for L.2, 15. An iron one for
         L.3, 1Os; a cart for L.5, a boat for L.6. A barrel of nets for
         L.4; ropes for do. 18s.; a pair of oars, 7s., making do. 2s.
            Live Stock.-Of the several breeds of sheep above-mentioned,
         the four farms into which Mrs Stewart Mackenzie's property is di-
         vided, are stocked with the black-faced, as is also the farm of Ardin-
         toul, in Letterfearn, the Cheviot breed having been tried on the
         latter, and found not to thrive. A good deal of care has been be-
         stowed on the improvement of this kind of stock; but there is room
         for further exertions. The property of Mr Lillingston is partly
         stocked with Cheviot, but chiefly with the produce of the black-
         faced ewe and the Cheviot ram. Much attention is bestowed up-
         on the improvement of this stock. There does not seem to
         be any speciality in the mode of management pursued, but such
         as results from the peculiarity of the climate and pasture. The
         loftiness of the mountains and the humidity of the climate render
         it indispensable.to smear the whole flocks at the beginning of
         each winter. Tar and butter, or oil, are the materials used for
         this purpose. Any experiments that have hitherto been tried
         with other substances, have entirely failed. The casualties amoong
         the flocks are, on account of the ruggedness of the surface,
         the liability of the upland pastures to snow storms, the difficulty
         of tending the sheep, and the quantity of vermin which the cairns
         and precipices harbour, necessarily very numerous. Much loss
         arising from the cause last mentioned would be prevented, if the
         fox-hunters possessed the art of snaring and poisoning the de-
         structive animals; and also if the people were prevented from in-
         dulging their excessive fondness for keeping multitudes of useless
         dogs, which, being half-starved at home, prey to a mischievous, ex-
         tent upon the sheep and lambs. The disease called braxy is the
         source of serious losses, in the early part of the winter, and great
         numbers of lambs are often destroyed by stormy weather occurring
         at the time of their birth, especially among those of the Cheviot
         and cross breeds. During the last two springs the loss of sheep
         and lambs 'had been very great, in consequence of the unusual
         severity of these seasons.
            The breeds of black-cattle are the Ayrshire and the Highland.


