
318                      PERTHSHIRE.

fir.  But besides it, there are other on the Drummond estate, as
also on the estates of Ardoch, Braco, Orchill, and Culdees, of
pretty large size.  In fact, the plantations of Strathearn are
amongst its beauties, and contribute much to fertilize it.

                    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     Accounts of the Parish.--The historical accounts of this parish
are mostly of a traditionary nature; and many of them not much
to be depended upon.*  All that is written concerning this parish
is to be found in the books of the Presbytery of Auchterarder, and
in the parochial registers of the kirk-session, and heritor's book.
In the kirk-session records,are continued lists of marriages, of
births, and baptisms; an account of the distribution of the funds;
and of the meetings and doings of the kirk-session.  The earliest
date ofthese records is February2, 1676; and from that time
to 1692, incidents are noticed with great regularity.  Afterwards,
the register is lost, until 1704, when Hally, the first Presbyterian
minister,took charge of them, and kept them very carefully, until
1754.  After Hally's time, they become irregular and confused,
with the exception of the last few years.  It is to be heped,how-
ever, that this part of our parochial economy will be more attend-
ed to throughout the bounds of the presbytery than in times past,
as it has lately fallen under the particular inspection of reve-
rend court.
     Eminent Persons.--As an individual eminent in the church, we
cannot pass by the Reverend William Hally, minister ofthis pa-
rish, so well known in the religious world, especially in connection
with the revival at Cambuslang, &c.
     It is well known that the year 1688 was the glorious time of
freedom to the church of Scotland, from the power and persecu-
tion of Property and Prelacy; but it is also well known that in many
parishes these churches held their sway foryears,after that bles-
sed revolution.  Mutchill was one of these.  By law, the Episco-

<FOOTNOTE>* Passing along the military road to Ardoch and near the mill ofSteps, there are
still to be seen the foundations of a blacksmith's house, who lived seventy years ago,
and who had abeautiful daughter.  This young woman could endure the frowns
of her stepmother, and with others embarked for America.  On her way thither the
ship was captured and carried into Morocco.  And the tradition bears that the black-
smith's daughter became the Empress of Morocco!  An old farmer, who died about
eighteen months ago, told this tale to the writer, and said that he remembered her
well, and that she often wroteto her friends at the Mill of Steps.  It is father re-
lated that she left two sons, who, about forty years ago, are said to have applied to
the government of this country foraidtoplace them upon the throne of their de-
ceased father, against an usuping kinsman, on the plea that they were of British de-
scent.  But the two young men are said to have been entrapped and cut off by some
ambitious relative.

                                       3


