
     146                            SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

     Caithness, who afterwards became the heir of the family, and from
     whom the present Lord Macdonald is descended."
       James Gun was succeeded as chieftain by his son William,
     With whom originated the patronymic of Macheamish, i. e. the son
     of James.  William, the first Mackeamish, signalized himself in
     several conflicts in the north, and his fame as a successful and
     brave leader of his clan, has been celebrated in some Gaelic verses
     and songs still existing.  Alexander Gun of Killernan was the se-
     cond, and his son William Gun, the third Mackeamish.   John
     Gun of Killernan and Navidale was the fourth, and Alexander
     Gun, also of the same designation, was the fifth Mackeamisb.
     This last chief had two sons, Donald and George, and was suc-
     ceeded bv his eldest son Donald, who was the sixth Mackeamish.
     Alexander Gun, the son of Donald, was the seventh, and Alex-
     ander's son, William Gun, the eighth Mackeamish; but this last
     chief, who was an officer in the army, being killed in action in
     India, without leaving issue, and the other male descendants of
     Donald, the sixth Mackeatnish, being extinct, the chieftainship de-
     volved on the now deceased Hector Gunn,' the great-grandson of
     George, the second son of Alexander, the fifth Mackeamish, to
     whom be was served as nearest male heir on 31st May 1803 ;
     and George Gunn, Esq., Rhives, in Sutherland, the only son of
     the said Hector Gunn, is now the chief of the clan Gunn, and the
     tenth Mackeamish.
        Land-Owner.--His Grace the Duke of Sutherland is proprie-
     tor of the whole parish, which has been part of the ancient Earl-
     dom of Sutherland from the earliest time to which the national
     records go back.
        Antigulities.--There are the remains of several circular or Pict-
     ish towers in this parish, which have outlasted in their great anti-
     quity, all traditionary accounts that may have once existed in re-
     gard to their erection, their uses, or history.  There are also

     <FOOTNOTE>Append upon them before their natural lords and masters."  Several formal agreements
     for the fostering of children are still preserved in the north ; and the foster-father, as
     well as the father of the child, makes  gift of cattle, which, with their whole increase,
     Were to be kept as the property of the foster-child, until he arrived at man's estate.
               The name Gun had been, until the middle of last century, spelt with one n, but
     Since then a second " has been added, in order to distinguish the name from the word
     gun, a musket-a comparatively modern word, which has slid into the English Ian-
     guage, in a manner. which puzzles all etyrnologists.  The name Gun appears to have
     been the same as the Welsh Gwyne, and the name Gawne, still common in the Isle
     a man.
              These Piatisfi towers seem to have been more numerous in the principal straths
     in Scotherland, than in any other district Scotland ; and the writer of this report
     has visited ther ruin65 of them in that county.   There are someo thers which he


