
6                          FIFESHIRE.

the passing stranger that the dead lie there. To shew, however,
the effect of prejudice upon the mind, it may be noticed, that there,
are still individuals to be found who have an unwillingness to pass
the spot under night.
   The present bunial-ground having been set apart and conse-
crated in 1415, when the church was removed from its former si-
tuation, and built nearer the town, can boast of few ancient monu-
ments. One of the most ancient is that erected to the memory of
Mr William Scott, who was for many years first minister of Cupar,
and who built the spire of the steeple at his own expense, and ac-
cording to his own design. This monument sbews the burial-place
of the ministers of the parish. But, in consequence of the action
of the weather upon the stones of which it is composed, the inscrip-
tion is completely obliterated. It is said to have been executed in
Holland, and erected by the relatives of Mr Scott, who belonged
to the family of Balwearie, shortly after his death, and must have
been thought a work of taste in that time. As there is none to
take an interest in its repair, it bids fair to go soon into com-
plete decay. There is also a monument erected to the memory
of some of those who suffered for conscience sake in the times of
Charles IL.
   In the east end of the outside of the present church there is a
niche shewing where St James's altar once stood. Within the
church in the western wall, lies a full length statue of Sir John
Arnot of Fernie, who fell in the last crusade. And in the same wall
is a very handsome marble tablet, erected to the memory of the late

<FOOTNOTE>This is a simple stone, modern in its appearance, and bears this inscription.
Here lies interred the heads of Laur, Hay, and Andrew Pitulloch, who suffered
martyrdom at Edinburgh, July 19th 1681, for adhering to the word of God and
Scotland's covenanted work of reformation; and also one of the hands of David Hack-
ston of Rathillet, who was most cruelly murdered at Edinburgh, July 30th 1680, for
the same cause," On the obverse of this stone are the following lines, with the date
at the top, 1680.

                      Our persecutors filled with rage,
                      Their brutish fury to aswage
                      Took heads and Hands of martyrs off,
                      That they might be the people's scoff;
                      They Hackston's body cut asunder,
                      And set it up a world's wonder
                      In several places, to proclaim,
                      These monsters gloried in their shame.

   At the bottom of these lines there is this intimation, " Erected July l3th, 1792."
On inquiry, however, it is found that this present stone, which certainly was erected
in 1792, was put up as a substitute for another which had become quite decayed, and
which is supposed to have been erected immediately after the events recorded. The
epitaph and the lines on the obverse are said to be the same as those that were in-
scribed upon the original stone. This stone is newly painted once a year, as it has
been, ever since it was set up, by private individuals, at their own expenses.



