
162                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

season of the year, but that what is taken then is much better ' than
what is taken, during what is called generally the fishing season.
  Shell-fish is less abundant on the shores of the parish of
Lochs, than on the shores of other parishes in Lewis. There
are a few lobsters in their season, about the headlands. Mussels
are plentiful in some of the bays, where there are also a few oys-
ters. There is a variety of whelks and other shell-fish of minor
importance.
   Botany.-The parish of Lochs furnishes but a very stinted field
for botanical observation. It is almostall covered with heath. The
exceptions are a few spots along the sea. shore, which were ren-
dered green by cultivation, and are now left in crooked ridges, as
not compensating the labours of the husbandman.
   There is a stinted scraggy copsewood of birch of small extent,
in a point of this parish called Swordle, near the spot on which
the first manse in this parish stood. This is the only wood now
on the island; brut the Lewis was at one time covered with wood
of great size and variety, as is evident from the huge roots which
are yet abundant in all parts of the island Tradition says that the
woods of Lewis were burnt by the Danes.

                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Ancient History.-- There is no account, either printed or in manu-
script, of the ancient history of the parish of Lochs, excepting
what may be in the possession of Mr R. Macaulay, preacher of the
gospel, Stornoway,.who, I am informed, proposed to collect the tra-
ditions of Lewis, with a view to publication.,
  Traditions.-The traditions of this country present a crude
mass of events, which refer more to the occasional exploits of the
heroes of the Shenaebies, than, to the regular history of the Lewis
These traditions are. nevertheless very interesting; but there is
scarcely any of importance that refers to this particular parish of
Lochs. The bards or shenachies of Lewis resided in the parishes
of Uig and Barvas or Ness, as did also their favourite heroes.
  Land-owners.-The sole land-owner of this parish, and of all
the Island, of, Lewis, is James Alex4ffder Stewart M'Kenzie, Esq.
M.P., who Succeeded to the estate, on his marriage to the Ho-
nourable Lady Hood- M'Kenzie, widow of the late Admiral Sir Sa-
muel Hood, and eldest daughter of the last Lord Seaf6rth.
  Parish RiVisters.-No register was. kept in this parish at any.
time, as far aslnown, until July 1831, when the present incumbent
became parish minister of Lochs.


