
412                       PERTHSHIRE.

course of the year, besides frequently using other sorts of butcher
meat.  All have their crop of potatoes and their provision of oat-
meal, which are considered as necessaries of life.  A good deal of
wheaten bread, too, is consumed; and tea, with its appendages,
once or even twice a-day, is by no means uncommon.  The farm-
servants, who, from the large scale on which agricultural operations
are here condtcted, form no small body, live almost entirely on
oatmeal and milk, which they receive as a part of their wages.  A
laudable attention to their moral and religious duties, and an ex-
emplary conduct in their social and domestic relations, are often
to be met with among the labouring classes: but, as might be ex-
pected, there are unhappily not a few melancholy instances to the
contrary.
  We have none of those public works, with which an injurious
influence is very generally and justly associated; but bothies, or de-
tached houses, in which the unmarried farm-servants sleep and
prepare their victuals, and of which there is a very considerable
number in this parish, though convenient and beneficial perhaps
in some respects, have not certainly contributed to the formation
of pious and virtuous habits.  It is among those who occupy them
that the greatest ignorance is most commonly to be found, and
that cases of immorality do most frequently occur.  Could some
alteration of the system be introduced, which would better provide
for the worldly comfort of the young men themselves, and be at the
same time more conducive to their intellectual and spiritual im-
provement, it would be extremely desirable.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.-This parish, in commmon with
the dirstrict to which it belongr, is essentially, and, it may be said,
eminently agricultural; and the following statement, in standard
imperial acres, will indicate the uses to which the land it is ap-
propriated:

<TABLE>
                Cultivated,           -      -       7200
                Hill Pasture and on rivdr side,       189
                Under wood,           -      -       1603

  The soft wood, the whole, or almost the whole, of which has
been planted, and of which there is a great deal, especially in the
upper part of the parish, which it both beautifies and shelters, is
the Scots fir, with a mixture of larches, though not nearly in the
same proportion.  The hard and ornamental timber, of which there
are many different kinds, grows most luxuriantly about Castle
Huntly, Longforgan, Drimmie, and Mylnefield.  It consists of oak,


