
868                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

barley, according to the county fiars, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements.  The only Dissenting place of worship is an
Episcopal chapel, the minister of which derives his salary chiefly
from the seat rents.  The number of families belonging to the
Established Church, in 1831, was 424: of persons of all ages,
1751 ; of Seceders attending meeting-houses in other parishes,
122 ; of Episcopalians, 606.  There is at present no Roman Ca-
tholic in the parish.  Among the Seceders are reckoned two fa-
milies of Baptists, some of whom have lately joined the Establish-
ment.  Divine service is generally well attended, especially since
enlarged accommodation has been provided in the new parish
church. In this, the average number of communicants, for last
three years, was 841.  Besides the ordinary collections for the
poor, there are occasional collections made in the church for
the General Assembly's five benevolent schemes, and also for the
Sabbath schools in the parish.  The average amount collected for
the former purpose, during last three years, may be stated at about
L.30, and for the latter about L.8, which is laid out on catechisms,
and books for circulating among the scholars.  The church ses-
sion consists, of eleven members, including the minister and clerk.
   Education.-There are three parochial schools, at Longside,
Mintlaw, and Rora, the last two of which were not endowed till
1829.  There lis also an unendowed school near Dens, with a
male teacher, besides five taught by females.  The late Mr James
Mitchel, factor to Pitfour, left money for the endowment in this
and other parishes, of some female schools.  One of these, at
Mintlaw, has been in operation for more than a year, the mistress
having a house of two storys free of rent, and L.15 of salary.
Another has just been settled at Rora, with a house and L.10 of
salary.  In the village of Longside, a female school has lately
been commenced, the mistress of which is to be paid with the fees
and about L.8 from the subscribers.  The branches usually taught
are, English reading and grammar, writing, and accounts, with
the addition of Latin and mathematics at the parochial, and of
sewing and knitting at the female seminaries.  Religious instruc-
tion is duly attended to, especially in the Sabbath schools, of
which there are four, besides one belonging to the Episcopal cha-
pel.  The parochial teacher at Longside has of salary L.31, 6s. 7d.,
and the other two have L. 10 each from the heritors, with the ad-
dition to the teacher at Mintlaw of a free bouse left for this Pur-
pose by the above-mentioned Mr Mitchel.  The fees drawn by


