
			PARISH OF BUCHANAN.

         PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

               REV. WILLIAM FREELAND, MINISTER. *

               I.---TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name and Extent.-This parish was originally called lnchcaile-
och, from an island of that name in Lochlomond, where there had
been a nunnery prior to the Reformation, and where the parish
church remained for a century afterwards. It consists of several islands
in the lake, and of a mountainous track on its eastern bank. In
1621, there was annexed a detached part of the parish of Luss,
containing the lands of the old family of Buchanan. Near the
mansion, was the chapel of Buchanan, which, being more commo-
dious for the population, was used as the ordinary place of public,
worship, and gradually gave its name to the whole parish. Bu-
chanan is bounded by Lochlomond, on the west ; by the parish of
Arrochar, on the north : by Loch Katrine, and by the parishes of
Aberfoyle and Drymen, on the east; and by the river Endrick, on
the south. There has been no measurement of the parish. It is
supposed to be 24 miles in length, and 5 in breadth; its area, in-
cluding the islands and mainland, may be stated at 120 square
miles, or 76,800 acres.
   The annexed part is situated in. the Lowlands of Scotland, con-
sisting of fertile alluvial land on the bank of the Endrick, and of a
track of ground gently rising towards the base of the mountains.
Within this, is Buchanan House, the residence of the Duke of
Montrose, with its extensive pleasure grounds and plantations.
The rest of the parish is in the Highlands, and forms the western
termination of the Grampian hills. It is a mountainous ridge, ex-
tending along the bank of the lake; deeply indented, on the east,
by Glendow, where the-river Forth has its rise; and intersected
near the north end by Glenarklet, a vale extending from Loch
Katrine to Lochlomond. This Highland district is rugged and
barren, and at an early period, if we may judge from the names of

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by John Graham, D. D. Killearn.


