
                           PAISLEY.                       223

riod, from 16th October 1663 to 7th September 1687, which are
contained in a separate volume, being the fifth.
   The cause of this is somewhat curious.  When the change to
Episcopacy took place, and broke up the presbytery, Mr James
Stirling, then minister of Paisley, retained the presbytery book,
the volume of records now described as the fourth, and having the
minutes of court written up only to the 13th of June 1660, and
that on six pages.  After this volume, the Episcopal clergymen,
who succeeded Mr Stirling and his brethren, made many inqui-
ries, but all their attempts to procure it were unsuccessful.  Robert
Park, late clerk to the presbytery, was summoned, 31st August
1665, to give an account of what had become of the volume, as the
want of it occasioned many scandals, for which satisfaction was not
made, to be buried, or forgotten.  He did not appear on the day
mentioned, on account, it is said, of sickness ; but on the 14th of
the following month, he gave in a paper subscribed by his own
hand, solemnly declaring, that " Mr James Stirling, late minister
at Pasley, came and received the presbyter records from him." *
The presbytery afterwards consulted the synod on the subject, but
Mr Stirling having gone to India, they were obliged to submit to
the want of the book, and accordingly commenced a record of their
proceedings in another volume.  After the Revolution, when many
of the old ministers returned to their charges, inquiry was again
made after the volume that had been so long amissing, and it was
found in the possession of Mr James Stirling, minister of Kilbar-
chan, nephew of Mr Stirling, formerly minister of Paisley.  In con-
sequence of this, the presbytery, at a meeting on the 5th of Febru-
ary 1690, appointed Mr Stirling to deliver up the old presbytery
book, + at the next meeting, which he accordingly did on the 16th
of April following.  Inquiry was also made after the minates from
1660 to the Revolution, or during the Episcopal period.  But this
inquiry proving unsuccessful, the presbytery seem to have left the
blank leaves between pages 6th and 19th, in order that these
minutes, should they ever afterwards be found, might be inserted in
their proper place, and to have commenced to engross their pro-
cedure from 27th December 1687, on page 19th of this vo-
lume, which is styled " the old presbytery book."  Hence the ap-
pearance which this book presents, and hence has this volume com-

<FOOTNOTE>Minutes of Presbytery.                Presbytery records.


