
                              CAVERS.                         437

ed one to be erected at his sole expense: this he keeps in repair,
allowing, at the same time, some other valuable perquisites.
     The poor of the district being regularly supported by their re-
spective parishes of Hawick and Cavers, the collections made in
the chapel are applied to the keeping Of it, together with the side-
parochial school, in repair, and the procuring of other requisites,
such as communion elements, &e. unless when, in cases of emer-
gency, some portion is appropriated to charitable purposes.
     Both at the church and chapel, Divine service is generally well
attended.
     Dissenting Chapel.-There is a Dissenting house or chapel at
Denholm, unddrstood to be supported by James Douglas, Esq. of
Cavers.  It belongs to the denomination of Independents.  There
is also a considerable number of other Dissenters, who, for the
most part, adhere to one or other of the various Dissenting con-
gregations in Hawick.
     Education.-The total number of schools in the parish is 3, all
of which are parochial,-one situated in Denholm,-anotber near
Stobbs on the Slitrige,-and another at Teviothead or Caerlan-
rig Chapel.  The two latter are termed side-parochial schools.  The
branches usually taught are, English, English grammar, writ-
ing, arithmetic, book-keeping, geography, mensuration of super-
ficies, solids, heights, and distances, algebra, &c.
                           Cavers. Slitrige-Cavers. Teviothead or Caerlanrig.
The present salaries are,   L .30        L. 12             L. 15 13 1 1/2
School-fees drawn,           25             19                19 0  0
     The school-fees are payable by the quarter of thirteen weeks,
and are, for English, 2s.; for English and writing, 2s. 6d.;- for
English, writing, and arithmetic, 3s.; and for higher branches, 5s.
The teachers have the legal accommodations.  Through the ge-
nerosity of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, and his Chamber-
lain for this district, (William Ogilvie, Esq. of Chesters,) tbe side
parochial schoolmaster at Caerlanrig has, of late, received ground
not only for a garden but for the keep of a cow.  There is no per-
son betwixt six and fifteen years of age, nor upwards of 6fteen, in
the parish, who cannot read or write, although from many, the
schools are distant and inaccessible.
     Libraries.-There are four libraries in the parish.  The Sub-
scription Library at Denholm was instituted in 1805, and contains
at present 880 volumes.  The Woodside Library is the property
of Mr Douglas of Cavers solely, to which any person can have
access gratuitously.  It was instituted in 1825, for the use of the

