
866                           LANARKSHIRE.

cient.  On one or two occasions, however, within the last few
years, a voluntary contribution of 6d. per pound of valued rent
has been required.  Out of this, sum, however, it ought to be
mentioned that several carts of coals are yearly pid for to per-
sons not on the poor's roll, which are driven gratuitously by the
farmers.  The deserving poor are backward to apply for parochial
relief; but here, as elsewhere, those of a different description are
sufficiently ready to make application.
   Inns.-An inn has lately been set up on e confines of the
parish, on the Edinburgh and Dumfries road, where such accom-
modation was much wanted for travellers.  Hitherto it has had no
perceptible bad effects on the morals of the people, from most of
whom it is at a considerable distance.
   Fuel.-The fuel consists chiefly of coal brought from a distance
of about ten miles.  Peat, however, is still in use, and dug in con-
siderable quantities.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   This parish has undergone a favourable change since the for-
mer Statistical Account was drawn up.  Fences of thorn have
grown up, and stone dikes have been built-many acres, as already
mentioned, have been added to the arable land by draining and
improving moss-and the climate in the low grounds must have
been benefited by this last improvement-a commencement of
plantation has been made in the west end of the parish, and the
growth of the trees affords every encouragement to persevere.
Some good slated houses have lately been erected at Elsrickle, on
feus granted by Mr Woddrop.  The gross rental is stated in the
former Account to have been L. 700 per annum.  It is now
L. 2046.
   Much full remains to be done in draining, fencing, and plant-
ing.  The last particularly is needed, and would in a few years
amply repay the expense.  The cottages in general ought to
be made more comfortable.  While the inmates are in the vigour
of life, and in the enjoyment of health, they may be less sensible
of the defects of their habitations; but when they are labouring
under disease, or the infirmities of age, more particularly in winter
and spring, they feel them but too severely.  The improvements
necessary to render them more comfortable could be made at a
trifling expenses; and it is hoped that nothing more is necessary to
the accomplishment of this amelioration, than to call the attention
of the heritors of the parish generally to its necessity and import-
                                      3


