
206                    BERWICKSHIRE.

only explanation which has occurred to us is the following:  The
natural effect of rains on the surface of a country is to wash down
soil from the hills, and thus gradually fill the vallies, and ele-
vate the plains. May not the seed of plants have in this man-
ner often been overwhelmed and buried so deeply in the soil as to
be prevented from vegetating?  This effect, we can see, might be
easily produced by sudden floods, at a period when the rivers had
not yet furrowed their way deeply into the earth's surface. Let
us suppose that the low plains of the Pampas in South America,
which are a wilderness of thistles, were to be overwhelmed with
occasional floods, which should deposit a stratum of mud over
them. The effect would of course be to bury the seeds to
such a depth, as to render the process of vegetation, for which the
influence of the air is needed, impossible. At a future period,
when cultivation begins to adorn these dreary regions, posterity
will perhaps wonder, on digging into the soil, to see myriads of
thistles immediately rush into existence.
   Zoology.- Many species of wild-fowl, which formerly frequented
the Tweed, have entirely disappeared,-such as the coot, wild-
duck, diver, and teal. This is to be accounted for, partly from the
greater population on the banks of the river, partly from the fre-
quency of poaching in the river for salmon, and partly from
the drainage of those marshy lands in which these birds used to
breed. Swallows, likewise, are by no means so numerous as they
once were, which may be referred to the same cause, as insects,
such as those on which they feed, are much more plentiful in
marshy or fenny districts. Wild-swans have been shot in the pa-
rish; and a gentleman some years ago succeeded in killing a great
northern diver from Hudson's Bay. A very fine specimen of night
heron (Ardea nycticorax,) was shot a few years ago by the Earl
of Home by whom it was presented to the Museum of the Edin-
burgh University. Pike of a very large size, sometimes weighing
upwards of 32 lbs. are caught in the lake at Hirsel; and the Earl
of Home killed a salmon which weighed 50 lbs.
   Botany.-In a district so highly cultivated, it is not to be ex-
pected that the botanist will find much to interest him, or engage
hig attention. Indeed, were it not for the Tweed and the Leet,
-the lakes of Hirsel and Lithtillum,-with some at present un-
cultivated ground in the north of the parish, we should be afraid
that the few plants that we have left would disappear. Lactuca
virosa, which has of late got much into repute for, medicinal pur-
poses, is found in abundance on the steep banks of the Tweed,


