
  159                                   CLYNE-

        about 300 horses, 250 cows, 300 other cattle, and. 300 pigs.
        Goats were at one time numerous, but they have now quite disap
        peared.
         When the small tenants were removed from the interior, lots
        were marked off for each of them, containing in every instance
        from a quarter to an acre of old land, and to this was added about
        two acres of moor-ground, which they were to improve.  Not only
        has this, condition been implemented in most cases, but the ad-
        joining lands have been trenched, and now produce rich crops of
        corn and potatoes.  There was scarcely a cart or a plough among
        the small tenants in the parish forty years ago.   It can now boast
        of 1258 carts and 240 ploughs, all made by native tradesmen, on
        the most approved principles.  At that date, there was scarcely a
        regularly bred tradesman in the parish, They now abound; and,
        there may be reckoned five stone masons, nine house-carpenters,
        twelve dike-builders, three blacksmiths, nine tailors, twelve shoe-
        makers, three cartwrights, besides journepmen and apprentices.
          There are several clumps of natural wood on the banks of Loch
        Brora, consisting of common and weeping birch, bird-cherry,
        alders, a variety of poplars, some old detached oak trees, and
        about 150 acres of thriving fir plantations at Kilcalmhill ; and on
        the opposite side of the locb, which contributes greatly to the
        beauty of that magnificent lake,-also 50 acres of fir-plantation -at
        Clynelish; but owing to the bad quality    of the soil, and its expo-
        sure to the sea-blast, it has not kept pace with the other woods in
        the parish.  The plantations are thinned regularly, sufficiently en-
        closed, and care is taken to prevent trespass by cattle, or other in-
        jury to them.
          Quarries.-There are two freestone quarries, which have been
        extensively worked of late years for domestic purposes, and for ex.
        portation ; one below Spouty, near the sea, of a soft, friable, sandy
        quality, not much used, except for the small country cottages,
        the other at Branbury hill, near Clynelish, a remarkably com-
        pact, hard, silicious freestone, beautifully white, and highly valued
        for its durability.  It contains many very perfect petrifactions of
        trees, fishes, and various forms of shells, which are much prized by
        the scientific travellers who visit the country.
           Fisheries,-The river Brora is famous for the number audqua-
        lity of its salmon, and when in proper condition, is one of the best
        angling streams in the north. It is fished for behoof of the pro-
        prietors, and the produce sold to accompany at a stipulated rate


