
362                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

be viewed without feelings of apprehension. It then, for a short
distance, gently pursues its course, and slowly forces its passage
through a narrow opening between two lofty precipices, when it
suddenly expands into an open semicircular basin, through which it
glides with a sluggish motion, and is then precipitated over the low-
er falls in a variety of cataracts. On the northern brow of the cliff,
stands a little handsome summer-house, from which an advanta-
geous view of this romantic scene can be obtained. The falls not be-
ing sufficiently high or powerful, when the river is in any measure
flooded, the salmon attempt to leap over the cascades; often, how-
ever, in the act of springing, they fall a prey to those who stand watch-
ing them on the banks with hooks, or spears fixed to long rods; or
from the constant agitation of the water where they swim, on ac-
count of the height  from which it falls, they mistake their dirce-
tion atid land on the dry rock. Branches of trees have been arrang-
ed along the edges of these shelves, to prevent them from regain-
in the river, and by this means from eight to twelve of them have
been caught in one night. It is reported of one of the Lords of
Lovat, that, having met, on a certain occasion, an English gentle-
man, and the conversation turning on the objects of curiosity on their
properties, be (Lovat) boasted that there was a kettle of boiling water
on the south side of the river which flowed through his estate, in-
to which the salmon from the river frequently lesped. The true ac-
count of this apparently wonderful fact is, that, at the bottom of the
southern precipice, there is a circular pit, kept constantly in a state of
agitation by the descending volume of water, into which the salmon
are driven back, where attempting to ascend the stream.
    For the space of two or three miles west of the parish church,the
course of the Beauly is most romantic. This spot is called the
Dhruim, (the back.) On either side the mountain acclivities are co-
vered with birch and fir, and the edges of the river are beautifully
lined all along with rows of oak, weeping-birches, and alders.
The river, during this part of its course, consists of a series
of cascades,, precipitated over shelving masses of red sandstone,
while in the middle of the strath, close by the farm-house of
Teanassie, the waters plunge through a rocky passage, encircling
high pyramids of stone, standing in the midst of the stream. At
the farther end of the Dhruim, stands the Island, of Aigrsh, on
which the present proprietor has built a beautiful dwelling-house.
     The western division of the parish assumes a wilder and rough-
or aspect: it is of decidedly Alpine character. It consists of the


