
                    TEMPLE.             51

the name of seven "commissioners electit and sworn for the pa-
roches of Tempill," by whome the report was drawn up, it appears
from the subscription of a notary, that he was requested to adhibit
his subscription "becaus we cannot wryte oursellffes."
     Land-owners.--The principal horitors are, Roberts Dundas. Esq.
of Arniston, and the Earl of Rosebery.*\f  The only other heritors
are, James Dewar, Esq. of Vogrie, and William tait of Toxside.
The valued rent of the whole is as follows:  Arniston, L. 2291,
3s. 4d.; Rosebery, L. 1669, ls. 2d.; Vogrie, L. 287; Toxside,
L. l52, 5s. 6d.; total, L. 4399, 10s.
     Parochial Registers.--The parochial register of baptisms and
marriages commence from the ordination of Mr David Walker at
the meeting-house at Nicolsone, and then in Temple, 14th No-
vember 1688;  and the register of discipline commences 22d June
1690.  They form altogether four volumes, besides fragments, but
are by no means in a good state or preservation.  The recoreds of
births and proclamations, however, are now preserved with consi-
derable accuracy.
     Antiquities.--The old church of Temple is very ancient; said
to have been built by David I. of Scotland.  On the east gable im-
mediately below the belfry are inscribed in lead put into the stone,
                          VAESAC
                          MIHM.
an inscription of which no antiquarian who has hitherto seen it,
can give any explanation.  About ten or twelve years ago, a medal
of Oliver Cramwell the Protector was found on the farm of Rose-
bery, and is now in possession of the Noble proprietor.
     Modern Buildings.--The only modern building worthy of notice
is the church, finished in 1832, which is very neat and commodi-
ous; and is placed on a very fine site.

     <FOOTNOTE> That part of the parish of Temple which was ancienty called Clarkington, and
formed a separate parish under that denomination, was in 1695 in possession of Sir
John Nicolson, and formed a barony named Nicolson.  In that year, it was sold to
Archibald Primrose of Dalmeny, in Linlithgowshire, second son of Sir Archibald
Primrose of Carrington, Bart. Lord Register and Justice-General of Scotland, who
the same year obtained a charter under the Great Scal, by which this, with other con-
tiguous lands, was crected into a new barony, under the name of Rosebery, which he
assumed as his title on being created a Viscount in 1700.  This estate was sold by the
first Earl of Rosebery in 1712, to the Marquis of Lothian, who gave it the name of
New Ancrum, but it remained only a short period in his family, as it was disponed
about 1749 to Mr Hepburne, who restored to it the original name of Clarkington.  It
was purchased in 1821 from his descendant, by Archibald John, fourth Earl of Rose.
bery, who again gave the barony the name which it bore when formerly in his family,
and who was created a Peer of the United Kingdom, under that appellation, in 1828
The large and ancient mansion-house of the barony was began to be pulled down
Mr Hepburne in 1805, and completely rased in 1812:  he created a small house
nearly on the same site, which is now occupied by the principal tenant.





