
                              ECKFORD.                             229

some of the happiest days of his life, and was in all respects regard-
ed as a member of the family./f*
  Richard Cameron, the founder of the Cameronians, was licensed
at Haughhead, in this parish, to preach the gospel.  In 1680 he was
slain at the battle of Ayrsmoss.
  Landholders.--In this parish, there are six landholders: His
Grace the Duke of Roxburghe; His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch;
the Most Noble the Marquis of Tweeddale; Robert Mein, Esq. of
Ormiston; the Heirs of the late Andrew Wilson, Esq. of Main-
house; and William Ker, Esq. of Chatto.  Of these the Duke of
Roxburghe and the Duke of Buccleuch, are by far the largest pro-
prietors ; and to them, upwards of four-fifths of the parish belong.
  Parochial Registers.--Of the parochial registers there are five
volumes, and the date of the earliest entry is 27th May 1694.  At
present, they are very carefully kept; but as the dissenters do not
regularly engross their children's names into the record, the list of
baptisms cannot be so complete as it would otherwise be.
  Public Buildings.--Within these few years, Mr William Mather,
an observing mechanic of this place, having purchased about half an
acre of land from the late William Mein, Esq. of Ormiston, has erect-
ed upon it an establishment for making all kinds of agricultural im-
plements.  This is one of the most extensive concerns of the kind in
this quarter of the country, and the articles which are made here will,
in point of workmanship, bear to be compared with any of a like de-
scription in the surrounding district.  Here Mr Mather intends to
erect a saw-mill ere long; and from such, considerable benefit may
probably accrue to the neigbourhood.  There are three mills in this
parish where corn may be ground, viz.  Ormiston mill, Eckford mill,
and Caverton mill; but of these the first mentioned is by far the most

<FOOTNOTE>It is worthy of remark, that the poet was apt to be extremely apprehensive of
supernatural spirits.  If after night fall, he chanced at any time to be on his way from
Wideopen, his patrimonial property, to Marlefield, he was in the habit of regularly
calling at a farm-house in the vicinity of the latter, and requestina one of the inmates
to accompany him to the seat of his patron.  Lady Bennet, who appears to have been
a person of considerable humour, used sometimes to play on the weakness of the poet.
Tradition avers that, on one occasion, when there was a large party at Marlefield, she
dressed up a figure in the human form, and secretly deposited in in the bed of Thom-
son.  The unsuspecting poet descried the figure, when on the eve of putting on his
night dress, and his cries of terror proclaimed that the frolic had been successful.
Rushing down stairs he entered the drawing-room in a state somewhat approaching
to frenzy, and truly caused her Ladyship, who, in the impulse of the moment, threw
an apron around hhn, to repent of the extravagance which she had committed.  With-
in two miles of Marlefield, in the parish of Morebattle, is a hill on which Thomson is
said to have written his Winter, and which, from its having two tops, is called Parnas-
sus.  Here, till of late years his anniversary was wont to be celebrated by a large as-
semblage of his admirer of both sexes, from all parts in the neighbourhood.


