
378                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

house, but hitherto without effect.  Of late, the officers have been
reduced in number, while their duties have increased. *
   Village of Boddam.-This village is situated about three miles
to the south of Peterhead, on a projecting point of land, a little
to the north of Stirlinghill.  It has a south and north boat har-
bour, the latter being also capable of receiving ships of moderate
drought of water; these harbours are only separated from each
other by a beach of small rounded stones.  The light-house at
Buchanness is situated on an island, separated from the mainland
and the village by these harbours.  Population of the village 460.
   The number of herring boats belonging to Boddam will amount
for this year to 23.  The annual produce of the Boddam herring
fishery may be fairly stated at L.100 per boat on an average of
seasons.
   There are three principal fishings, called the summer, the her-
ring, and the winter fishings.  The summer or haddock fishing,
which occupies from March to July in catching, preparing, and
going to market with the produce, is carried on in 22 smaller sized
boats, maned with four men each, and generally a boy, who has
a small share.  From 25,000 to 30,000 fish are considered a fair
fishing, and they generally bring from L.3 to L.4 per thousand,
according to their size and quality.
   The herring fishing occupies the months of July, August, and
September: after this the fishermen go for their bait, and occa-
sionally go to sea, or prepare for the winter or cod fishing.  This
last is carried on in twelve boats of a size between that of a her-
ring boat and common fishing yawl, each boat being manned by
six men.  From 1200 to 1800 cod fish to each boat is considered
an excellent fishing, and these bring 4d. to 6d. each, according
to size.  This fishing ends at Candlemas, when the fishermen
again go to supply themselves with bait, and there after prepare
for the summer fishing.
   The common kinds of fish caught here are, the cod, the had-
dock, and whiting, with occasionally the turbot, ling, and skate.
The fishing is made at no very great distance off the coast.  Un-
til a market was found in summer for haddocks, which is the time
they are in poorest conditions the fishermen were in the habit of
going to what was called the deep sea fishing, at a bank, a long
off the coast, where they were very succesrful in catching ling,
cod, turbot, skate, and flat fish of different kinds; but for some

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, the establishment of a Custom-house has been
granted to Peterhead.


