
     1272               PERTHSHIRE.

     the Kincardine moss on the estate of Blair-Drummond has been
     reclaimed.
       The subsoil on which the moss rested, consists of very produc-
     tive clay, and carries good crops of wheat, oats, barley, hay, tur-
     nips, potatoes, and pasture.   It is well known, however, that, for
     some years after the moss is removed, the new land does not pro-
     duce profitable crops of wheat, beans, and barley, nor even of green
     crops.  To prepare it for these crops, the roots and stocks of the
     trees must be removed, the ridges made straight and level, the
     water from the clouds skilfully disposed of by draining, the soil
     exposed by the plough to the action of light, air, and moisture,
     and enriched by lime and manure.
       By following this system these crops in the carse, are even more
     abundant now than in the dryfield, and in all respects equally good
     in quality.
       The moss improvement on this estate has in all respects been
     completely successful, in reference to the return to the landlord
     and tenant, and in its advantages to the community.
       In thus adding to his estate, the proprietor has certainly been
     at great expense, in cutting canals, erecting the great wheel, mak-
     ing roads and sinking wells, dividing the water among his diffe-
     rent tenants, and in keeping the whole in repair; but the suc-
     cess which has attended his operations in this and his other agri-
     cultural improvements on his estate, for the mutual benefit of him-
     self, his tenants, and the public, must have afforded him very
     great pleasure.  He has now the satisfaction of seeing, instead of
     the stagnant waters and the deceitful quagmires of the moss, the
     presence, prosperity, and happiness of hundreds of his fellow-crea-
     tures.  Mr Drummond's predecessors were considered as roman-
     tic when this plan of improvement by floating was devised, and
     measures adopted for its execution; and the very people whom they
     employed were regarded with more than indifference by many, as
     a dangerous class, and as likely to become a burden to the parish
     and the district.  But who does not now admire the foresight of
     Lord Kames, and the bold enterprise and liberal expenditure of
     his son and his grandson in this great improvement ?  The result of
     this wisdom is seen in the many happy families on the estate, in
     the many thousand additional bolls of produce which these te-
     nants carry annually to the market, and in the great amount of
     wholesome food which they thus provide for the public.
        In addition to the moss of Kincardine, Mr Drummond acquired


