
                          KIRKCOLM                121

    The parish school-house is placed, not near the kirk, but about
    a mile from it, in the interior of the parish, so as to accommodate
    the existing population as well as one school-house could do.  The
    schoolmaster's salary is L. 27, with the legal accommodations of
    dwelling-house and garden; the school fees he actually receives
    (for all schoolmasters here lose by bad payments) average from
    L.15 to L. 18 a-year. The other schools are supported wholly
    by the school fees.  The fees at all the schools are the same.
    The general expense of education is 1s. a month.  No part of the
    parish is more than four miles distant from the parochial school.
    The people are generally much alive to the benefits of education.
    Children usually enter school about six years of age.  There are
    few young persons under fifteen years of age who cannot read and
    write; but there are Irish labourers in the parish who can neither
    read nor write.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.- The average number of poor re-
    ceiving parish aid is 60.  Of these 20 receive, at the stated times
    for dividing the poor's money, 16s. each, the remaining 40, 12s.
    each, per annum; but some of both classes, in addition to these
    sums, receive, when necessary, additonal relief.  The times of di-
    viding the poor's money are Whitsunday and Martinmas, and
    after the sacrament, when what has been collected on that occa-
    sion is distribtted. Sometimes two of the aliments above men-
    tioned go to one family; as to husband and wife, to mother and
    daughter; or to two sisters, or to any two paupers living together,
    The parish poor are persons of advanced age or of infirm health,
    or widows.  By far the greater part of them are able to do more
    or less or their own support, and willing to do what they can. A
    few of them go about begging within the parish by seldom else-
    where.  Many of them receive assistance from their friends, or
    from other charitable persons, chiefly from the farmers on whose
    lands they live, or in whose service they have been The ali-
    ments given from the poor's funds are small; but to a person in
    a state of general indigence 16s., or even 12s. a year, to assist in
    paying house rent, or in buying meal or potatoes, is felt to be a
    great relief; and certainly there is now very rarely any reluctance
    in applying for it.  The funds for the relief of the parish poor
    are, at an average, about L. 40 per annum, from collections in the
    church, and about L. 16 from other sources: making a total of
    L. 56: which, after deduction of L. 6, 10s, paid to the session-
    clerk, precentor, and kirk-officer, and to the clerks and officers of


