
278                          BANFFSHIRE.

period at which they respectively and yearly return from the cold
regions of the north, for the important and pleasing purposes of
incubation.
   "The varieties which appear in greatest numbers are the kit-
tiwake (provincially kittle), the razor-bill auk (provincially coul-
ter), the guillemot (provincially queet), and, lastly, the puffin
(provincially Tammy Norrie). To a stranger who visits, for the
first time, the scene of their vernal abode, the spectacle presented
is striking and interesting in no ordinary degree. On various por-
tions of the immense rocks, which rise in sublime magnificence
before him, sit thnusands and tens of thousands of the birds to
which we are now directing attention. And it is curious to ob-
serve the regularity with which the different species attach them-
selves to the places to their various wants and capa-
cities. The kittiwakes and guillemots inhabit the firmest and most
precipitous of the rocks, on the ledges of which they form their
nests. These ledges, when viewed from below, appear to the spec-
tator as scarcely presenting an inch breadth of surface, and yet the
birds contrive to form their nests, which, in the case of the kitti-
wake, is done with grass, and to hatch their young in this seem-
ingly impracticable situation; although it sometimes, indeed, hap-
pens, that, on being suddenly startled, their eggs tumble into the
sea. Although associated together, bowever, no actual intermix-
ture takes place between the two species, for they have each their
own particular ledges on which they sit, drawn up, like regiments of
soldiers in the most imperturbable manner; and, if startled by more
than ordinary alarm from their nests, tbey nevertheless return af-
ter a single evolution in the air, to the important duties from which
they bad been with difficulty aroused.  The two species are easily
distinguishable.  The kittiwake is at once conspicuous by its
snow-white head and breast, its yellowish bill, and its pearly blue
mantle; while the guillemot is recognized by its upright figure,
the legs being placed very far back, as is the case with most sea-
fowl, and by the great portion of brownish sleek black with which
its plumage is diversified. *On a promontory immediately
adjoining, and composed of softer materials, are assembled the
puffins, or, in the language of this part of the country, the Tammy
Norries, which, laying their eggs in holes burrowed in the earth,
cannot, of course, take up their abode on the hard ledges occupied
by the birds-whose position we have already described. In the
same manner, the razor-bills, although associated with the guille-


