
                        SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

   per pound.  The rent may be stated at L. 300 a year.  Some
   boats have been engaged at Brora in the herring-fishing, and with
   tolerable success.  There are three boats' crews of regular fishers,
   who keep the neighbourhood abun'dantly supplied,-often selling a
   large cod for 2d., a skate from 4d. to 6d., and sometimes from 20
   to 40 haddocks for 6d.     But the otber inhabitants have not,taken
   to the sea, as was expected, and they are more inclined to occupy
   their time in cultivating their lands, -excepting during the her-
   ing-fishing, season, when they are all engaged in it, at Brora or
   Helmsdale.
      Kelp was formerly manufactured on the shores; but this has
   been discontinued since the fall in the value of that article at mar-
   ket, and the tenants are allowed the free use of the sea-ware as
   manure for their land.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Marhet-Town, &c.-Dornoch is the nearest market-town, being
   distant about thirteen miles from the confines of the parish; but
   balf-yearly markets are held in Golspie, only four miles distant,
   in June and October.  Brora is the only village, and contains 280
   inhabitants.
      Means of Communication.-When the former report was pub-
   lisbed, there was not a mile of road fit for a carriage, and Brora
   could boast of the only bridge in the county.  It has probably long
   enjoyed this advantage, and its name may have been derived from
   the Danish word Brora, a bridge, or from brugb, a borough.
   Now, the country is intersected in every direction with the finest
   Toads in the kingdom, there being in this parish alone about thirty
   miles of road, and fifteen bridges of the mok perfect construction,
   and always kept in the best order.  No toll-dues are exacted in
   this county,-which is justly prized as a great advantage over our
   neigbbours.  Brora being a sub-post-office, a neat receiving-house
   was built by subscription from the inhabitants, and the Mail- Coach,
   drawn by two borses, passes and repasses daily.  A pier was con-
   structed at the barbour, at the sole expense of the late Duke of
   Sutherland, when the coal and salt works were in operation, and
   wbich affords secure shelter to coasting vessels.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which is the only
   place of public worsbip is conveniently situated in the centre of
   the population, the whole inhabitants, with the exception of the
   dwellings of shepherds, being within less than three miles of it. It
   was built about the year 1770; and enlarged and thoroughly repair-
   ed thirteen years ago.  It may contain from 800 to 1000 individu-


