
                    PARISH OF GRANGE.

           PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE, SYNOD OF MORAY.

              THE REV. WILLIAM DUFF, MINISTER.


               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
       Name.-IN the old Statistical Account of this parish, it is said
     that Grange takes its name from Grangia, a niiddle-age term for
     a farm, or country residence. It is certain that this parish was tile
     Grange or farm of the Abbots of Kinloss, to whom the greater
     part of it, if not all, was given by William, Kino, of Scots, as may
     be learned by a charter of Stratbisla to Kinloss, published in
     Shaw's History of Moray, without date, but with the names of wit-
     nesses attached. It is likely that this charter was granted  by the
     King about the end of the twelfth century, or beginning of the
     thirteenth.
       The jolly monks had here a residence, built on ,the site where
     the church now stands, attracted, it is said, by the beauty  of the
     situation. If it was beautiful in these days, it is much more beau-
     tiful now, having been, a few years ago, surrounded by trees and
     shrubs. The mount upon which their dwelling stood is situated
     upon the slope of a brae, which, in appearance, is mostlv artificial.
     It overlooks the extensive haughs or holms on the rivulet Isla,
     beautified principally by the cultivation of its banks,-for the
     trees are yet few and far between, the few venerable ashes elms,
     and planes that surrounded the farm-steadings, having been rooted
     out and sold. On the south of the Isla, there is a wide and long
     brush of larch and Scotch firs, now shooting up, and changing the
     scene a little, from the dull uniformity of unadorned hill and valley.
      Boundaries, &c.-The parish is six miles long by five broad.
     It is bounded on the east, by the Knock, a hill, about 1600
     feet above the level of the sea. This hill is cultivated a good way
     tip, on all sides. The greater part of its surface is deep peat,
     and heather. On the top the moss is from eight to ten feet deep.
     In thedry year 1826, the surface was burnt round and round, hav-


