
				ST BOSWELL'S.                      105

    to the village, yet, from the sudden acclivity of the ground, there
    are scarcely any of the houses in sight, with tile exception of Les-
    suden Place,-an old border strength belonging to the Scotts of
    Raeburn, which forms in appropriate accompaniment of the scene.
       From the range of hills and mountains both on the north and
    south, the climate is comparatively dry, and consequently healthy.
    The clouds coming either from the east or west, (and here the
    wind seldom blows directly from the north or the south,) range
    along the higher grounds, and pass over the intermediate flat lands
    in a rarer state. In dry seasons, this is often felt to in inconve-
    nient degree. The high grounds in the neighbourhood are, on
    such occasions, plentifully watered, while our fields are parched,
    and our crops languish.
       Hydrography.-The Tweed is the only stream worthy of notice
    connected with this parish, of which it forms the botindar for up-
    wards of two miles on the north and east.-The springs are all
    perennial,-so far intermittent, however, that many of them, in dry
    seasons, cease about the beginning of autumn. Near the village
    of Lessudden, where the soil is of a retentive nature, incumbent on
    what is here called till, gravel embedded in clay,-springs are scarce,
    and the water indifferent. All the other parts of the parish are
    plentifully supplied with water of the purest quality. Around the
    glebe, in particular, to the east and south, there is an immense
    profusion of springs of the finest quality. The springs issue from
    a seam of gravel incumbent on freestone rock of a reddish colour:
    and many of them are strongly impregnated with lime, to which
    they owe their petrifying quality, which is common to all along the
    east bank, to some in a very vein remarkable degree. There is also
    "the well brae wall," a chalybeate that has attracted some notice,
    from its reputed virtues in scorbutic complaints. From the south
    bank, again, issues the Hier, or sacred well, vulgarly called the
    Hare well. This well also still bears the name of the saint, and
    is situated farther to the west, on the same side of the ravine
    through which flows St Boswell's burn, receiving, in its progress
    to the Tweed, contributions from the "well brae."
       Geology and Mineralogy.-On this head, it may be only re-
    marked, that the soil in general consists of a stiff clay; in the neigh-
    bourhood of the church, of a black loam; and in the haughs adjoin-
    ing the Tweed, it is alluvial. The soil rests upon a mass of clay
    mixed with boulders of whinstone and gravel of considerable thick-
    ness, indicating the presence of some great current.


