                                                     
                        DALMENY.                             97

Dalmeny, whose descendant, the fourth Earl, is the present pro-
prietor.
   Family of Rosebery.-Of the early history of the family whom
this distinguished nobleman now represents, there are some interest-
ing notices in Crawford's and Douglas's Peerage. They were ori-
ginally seated at Primrose, near Inverkeithing, and acquired lands
in Perthshire and Culross. One of them was principal surgeon to
King James, who died in 1615, and was buried in the Greyfriars
church-yard, "Plenus annoruin et plenus honorum," as his monu-
ment bears. He was father of Gilbert Primrose, D.D., who was one
of the ministers of the Protestant church of Bordeaux, and after-
wards of the French church in London-chaplain in ordinary to
James VI. and Charles L; and finally canon of Windsor in 1682.
He left several publications that testified alike to his learning and
piety. His son David Primrose had also the reputation of being one
of the most learned divines and active promoters of the reformed
religion in France. The most distinguished, however, of this ex-
cellent family, direct ancestor of the Earls of Rosebery and the
founder of their fortunes, was Archibald, the third in descent by a
younger son of the first of the lineage above-mentioned. He was
first appointed in 1641 clerk of the Privy-Council, and until dis-
charged by the Parliament, was in constant confidential correspon-
dence with the King, and Court. Adhering faithfully to the royal
cause, he was taken prisoner at the battle of Philip haugh 1646,
tried by the Parliament of St Andrews, and found guilty of high
creason. Though his life was spared at the intercession of the
Marquis of Argyle and others of his friends, be continued a close
prisoner till a capitulation was entered into between Montrose and
the Committee of Estates, when, on repairing to Charles at New-
ark, lie had the honour of knighthood conferred on him in consi-
deration of his great services and sufferings. King Charles II.,
on coming to Scotland in 1651, created him a baronet, "as a spe-
cial mark of our Royal favour, to gratify the deservings of so faith-
ful a servant." During the Usurpation, Sir Archibald lived in re-
tirement, but on the king's restoration, he was in August 1660,
appointed Lord-Register of Scotland, and in June 1661, consti-
tuted one of the Senators of the College of Justice by-the title of
Lord Carrington, and afterwards Lord Justice-General. Accord-
ing to Bishop Burnett, "he possessed a great measure of sagacity
and prudence, with expedients always ready for every diffieulty."
Throughout the changes of that troublous period, he maintained
   LINLITHGOW.                                G


