
                                YARROWS.                        43

ed from the dry rocky of the ground. There is a great
deal of fine wood at Hangingshaw, the once beautiful seat of the
Murrays of Philiphaugh, and now belonging to James Johnstone,
Esq. of Alva. A plane-tree measures in circumference near the
root, 16 feet, in solid contents 390 square feet ; a beech, circum-
ference 13 feet, contents 202 square feet; a lime, circumference
11 1/2 feet, contents 180 square feet ; an oak, circumference 11 feet,
contents 166 square feet. But Hangingshaw is remarkable chiefly
for the extent and variety of its valuable trees. Many of the same
kinds are scarcely inferior in size to those already specified; while
the ashes, elms,larches, and Scots firs, (raised from IIighland seed,
and the timber of which is of very superior quality,) average 8 feet
in circumference, and 100 square feet in contents. The soil ap-
pears congenial to trees of every sort; and so adapted is it to its
ancient covering, that copses,particularly of birch,will spring spon-
taneously wherever the ground is enclosed.

                                  II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     Accounts of the Parish.-- There are no ancient or modern ac-
counts, so far as we are aware, that refer solely and especially to
Yarrow parish. Two MSS., however, are to be found in the Ad-
vocates' Library, which notice its former condition in a general
description of Selkirkshire. The one was written in 1649, by Wil-
liam Elliot of Stobs and Walter Scot of Arkilton. The other is
IIodges' MS., bearing the date of 1722; but it is chiefly a detail of
names, localities, and distances. In the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia,
Art. SELKIRSHIRE, there is an excellent statistical account by Mr
William Laidlaw, a native of this parish, and author of the well-
known song, "Lucy's flitting," &c. We may refer also to a prize
essay on the same subject by the Ettrick Shepherd, written in a
popular style, and published in Transaction of the Highland
Society for 1832. The Duke of Buccleuch possesses about
two-thirds of the parish, and the other land-owners are, in the
order of the valuation of their estates, s follows: James John-
stone, Esq. of Alva, the Earl of Traquaire, Lord Napier, Lord
Elibank, James Mercer, Esq. of Scotsbank, Hug Scott, Esq. of
Harden, the Earl of Minton, Miss Williamson of Cardona, James
Russell, Esq. of Ashiesteel, and Henry Rutherford, Esq. of Red-
fordgreen. Landed property here very seldom changes hands.
     Parochial Register.--l`rge proportion of the old parochial
registers was burnt about seventy years ago with the manse.



