
			      PAISLEY.			     181

on the ground that the defender was a principal actor in the extor-
tion of the money.  The defender was assoilzied from this claim,
28th July 1759, and the pursuers were also unsuccessful in an
appeal to the House of Lords in 1760.  A memorial was after-
wards presented to the Lords of the Treasury for relief, on the
ground that the town had been subjected to the exaction, on account
of their loyalty; but this application was not successful.
   Illustrations of Ancient Manners.-The records or minute books
of the Town Council, which are, with few exceptions, entire from
the year 1594, bear distinct references to others of more ancient
date now lost, * and afford many curious and minute illustrations
of the usages of other times, and of the powers exercised by the
council of passing acts for the government of the inhabitants, and
the general police of the community.
   1580, July 11.-A person of the name of Wilson is tried for
stealing a pair of breeches.  The council banish him from the
county, with certification that, if he shall return, and " be guilty of
the like again, he shall be content to be punished to the dead, and
without ane assise."
   1594, January 21.-An act is passed " anent sic persones that
wilfullie remains frae the kirke," or apprehendit going playing,
passing to taverns, or selling meat or drink, or siclike;" and they
are to be punished with a fine of L.1, toties quoties ; or " holden in
the stocks twenty-four hours."  A baillie, the town-clerk, an elder, and
proper officers are appointed to parade the streets and pick up
such offenders.  The fines are to be applied " ad pios usus."
   1597, July 8.-" All uncouth beggars are to be expellit" from
the burgh; and two men are appointed to see this done, with
L.1, 10s.  Scots of weekly payment, if they show diligence."
   1602, January.-More regular attendance on church on Sab-
bath enforced; as also "attendance on morning and evening
prayers on week days."
   16.-" The east and west ports to be diligently kept by a pro-
per person, having a sword and a Jedburgh staff."
   1603, February 10.-Merchants " are ordered", to shut their
doors every Tuesday during prayers, and to attend the kirk for
hearing the word under the pain of 8s. Scots. +

<FOOTNOTE>It appears by an entry in council minutes of 8th April 1606, that records of a
much older date were then extant; a list of not less than six volumes being inserted,
from A. D. 1507, 1694.
    The old motto of Paisley is similar to that of Glasgow.  " Let Paisley flourish
through the preaching of thy word."  This is the inscription on the silver cups used


