
322                     EDINBURGSHIRE.

an interval of eight or nine months. The annual amount of con-
tributions for the support of the poor, on an average of five years,
is L.42, 6s.
   It is to be regretted that there is not the same disposition now
among the people who attend the parish church, to contribute to
the collections in behalf of the poor. There are many who never
contribute at all.
   At one time the people had an aversion to accept of anything
from the poor's funds, as they considered it to be degrading to
their character and family; but this independent spirit, I am afraid,
is dying away.
   Fairs.--There is an annual market for sheep held at House of
Muir on the first and second Mondays of April, to which sheep
are sent from various parts of Scotland, and purchasers attend
from a great distance. At one time there was a weekly market
there, frequented by the Edinburgh butchers; but that has been
discontinued, for more than forty years. The one-half of the cus-
tom belongs to the town of Edinburgh, and the other half to the
proprietor of the grounds, which is generally collected by his tenant.
   Inns, &c.--There are several licensed houses for retailing spi-
rits in the parish, which certainly are injurious to the morals of
the people.
   Fuel.--The fuel made use of in the parish is chiefly coal, which
is obtained from a distance of from four to six miles, and costs at
the pit from  7s. to 9s. per ton. A good deal of wood if; also burnt
from the thinnings of the plantations.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Few parishes have undergone a more complete change of ex-
ternal appearance than this since the date of the last Statistical
Account. At that time there was very little wood in the parish,
but since that period a proportion, equaling in extent one-fifth of
the whole parish, has been tastefully planted with trees, to which
great attention having been paid, they are in a thriving state, and
have arrived at considerable maturity. At that time enclosures
were rare, and in bad condition; now, the fields are all surround-
ed by proper fences, and kept in excellent order. For the greater
part of these improvements the parish is chiefly indebted to the
taste and public spirit of the late Robert Trotter, Esq. of Castle-
law who spared no expense in improving his extensive property;
and his example was speedily followed by the other proprietors.
   May 1843.


