
376		GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

   Mode of Occupancy Cropping, &c.-Long after the middle of
last century, almost the whole county was open field, with much
of the lands rundale, and divided field about amongst its numerous
tenantry.  These frequently resided together in a cluster of mean
houses, dignified by the name of town, and were any thing but
conveniently situated for the profitable management of their re-
spective possessions.  Summer-fallowing was then rarely thought
of, and turnips and sown-grasses were hardly even known.  It was
then a common employment for the farm-servants, in the summer
afternoons, to gather thistles from among the corn, or wherever
else they could be found, to feed their work-horses during the
night, these being the only green food the animals ever tasted while
in the stable.  And after harvest, when the crop was secured in the
stack, and the barn-yard slap built up, the horses after their day's
work were turned out during the night to the fields, to seek such
provision as nature provided.  That season was called long halter
time, and the or animals, unless detained by some spot more
than ordinarily overrun with couch and other root weeds, were of-
ten to seek far enough from home in the mornings.  Now the
whole county is inclosed, and every farm has within itself its own
farm-house and offices.  Summer-fallow annually occupies at
least on the heavy soils, about one-sixth of the arable land, and
sown grass and turnips are everywhere far more than sufficient for
the working stock necessary on every farm; and all these im-
portant and beneficial changes have been introduced within almost
the lifetime of a single generation.
   Tenantry and Labourers.-Indolence and want of enterprise
marked the character of the tenantry of the county up even to
the middle of the last century.  Alike destitute of the knowledge
of agricultural improvement and the means of carrying it into ef-
fect, they jogged on in the beaten track, perfectly satisfied with
the system they pursued, and with the comforts it afforded them.
As proof of this it may be mentioned, that so late as in 1772, a
farm in the northern angle of the county had been deserted by its
new tenant, after be had merely ploughed his patch of fallow in
the spring, when it lay without a tenant from the Whitsunday till
after the harvest, although it was frankly offered on lease at L. 1, 6s.
per Scotch acre.  The land, too, was naturally of very superior
quality, and without any particular expenditure since in unprove-
ment, has been long let at nearly three bolls of wheat per acre.
Farm-servants were then but poorly paid and scantily fed, and


