
                        SALTON.                             107

their being bordered by different kinds of trees planted in the
hedge-rows. On the southern slope of the above-mentioned
height, a wood * extends for upwards of a mile and a-half, skirting
the edge of the boundary stream on the south, and uniting with the
equally extensive woods of Humbie. It consists chiefly of fir, birch,
and oak. Towards the south-east, the aspect of the country is
less fertile in vegetation, and inferior in natural beauty. The gene-
ral appearance, however, of this part of East-Lothian is such as,
from its agreeable diversity of hill and dale, does not render it un-
worthy of the appellation of the "Northamptonshire of North
Britain," by which the county has snmetimes been characterized. +
   Meteorology, &c.-The temperature of the atmosphere is equa-
ble, and, in the higher parts of the parish especially, distinguished
by its salubrity. Many instances of longevity at present exist,
and in former times they appear to have been equally numerous.
   "A tradition is preserved," says the author of the last Statistical
Account," that, some centuries ago, when the plague visited, with
dreadful ravages, this country, Salton was the only parish in the
east of Scotland which escaped: an exception imputed to the pu-
rity of the air, and the smoke of the limekilns, which, it seems,
even then abounded in the parish." The salubrity of the climate
is probably chiefly owing to the deficiency of moisture in the soil,
and this again may in great measure,ascribed to the fact, that
the parish, occupying a moderately elevated situation between the
high range of the Lammermoors on the one hand, and the waters
of the Frith of Forth on the other, is frequently exempted, by
being thus placed between these two sources of nebular attraction,
from the visitation of those heavy showers, to which the high up-
lands on the south, and the low districts on the north, are equally
exposed.
   Hydrography.-The parish possesses many excellent springs of
water, strongly impregnated with lime; a circumstance which, it
is believed, conduces essenti`lly to the healthfulness of the inhabit-
ants, and to the general salubrity of the district. The Tyne and
Salton waters are the only streams of any importance connected
with the parish. The latter, for nearly three miles, forms its south-

<FOOTNOTE>"The green-sward way was smooth and good,
            Through Humbie's and through Saltoun's wood,-
            A forest glade, which varying still,
            Here gave a view of dale and hill,
            There narrower closed, till over head
            A vaulted screen the branches made." -Marmion, Canto 4.
    Chalmers' Caledonia, ii. 400.




