
16                           FIFESHIRE.

cases where the parents are not able to pay these rates, it is to be
had, as Dr Bell stipulates, upon making proper application, for
nothing.
   There are, in addition to all this, four female schools, and one
promiscuous school, in the town. Of the female schools, one is un-
der the patronage of the magistrates and ministers, as trustees of a
fund of L. 500, left by the late Dr Gray of Paddington Green, Lon-
don. And at Springfield, on the property of David Maitland M'Gill,
Esq. of Rankeillor, there has been erected, and also endowed by him,
a very handsome school for the benefit of that portion of the parish.
Under these circumstances, there is not a child in the parish of five
years of age and upwards, but is able to read, or is at school ac-
quiring that power. And, with the attention that is paid to reli-
gious instruction in the different schools, there is reason to believe,
that, as the people have hitherto improved in their conduct, and
morals, and religious character, through the facility of acquiring
education,-so, through the blessing of God, they will continue to
improve.
   Literature.-There is one public library in the parish, founded in
the year 1797, and which has increased gradually till now it contains
upwards of 4000 volumes. Dr Gray also bequeathed his library to
the subscribers, which contains many scarce and curious books. Its
only regular source of increase is the annual subscriptions of the
proprietors. There are two public reading-rooms, one frequented
by the better classes, the other by the mechanics. There are five
stationers' shops in the town. There are now two printing-presses.
One of these, under the management of the late Mr Robert Tullis,
had the credit of having sent out Hunter's immaculate editions of the
classics. And there are two newspapers published weekly;-one
at the office of Mr Tullis, who was the first to publish a newspaper
in Cupar, many years ago;-another at the office of the Fifeshire
Journal, recently set up.
   Charitable Institutions.-There is an alms-house, with a yard at-
tached, containing 82 falls 9 ells Scotch measure. This is sup-
posed to have been set apart  for the benefit of the poor of the pa-
rish, about the time that the church was removed from its former
site, and placed where it now is in 1415. There is no exact trace of
its original. It is in the management of the kirk-session, and, so far
as their records go back,-to, the year 1648,-it is found that it
was under the same management as it is at present, kept in repair
bY the session, disposed of by the session for the accommodation


