
<APPENDIX>

xxxvii

   N. B. It is intreated, that at the next meeting of your Presbytery, some
plan may be formed, for completing the survey within its bounds, as expedi-
tiously as may be consistent with accurate returns to the different queries;
and that the Moderator, or some member of the meeting, will have the
goodness to inform me of the steps which are taken for that purpose.  The
letters may either be directed to Edinburgh or London.
   Any of the Clergy who have not received a copy of this, or of the former
letter and queries, may be assured, that it has only arisen from mistaken, and
from those errors which cannot be avoided in so extensive a correspond-
ence.
   It is also requested, that, in the course of any correspondence with your
brethren, you will not fail to recommend as early an attention as possible to
this inquiry.
   In regard to any question, about the propriety of answering which a dif-
ficulty should arise, no reply is required.

<APPENDIX>

D.

   Third printed Circular Letter to the Clergy, announcing the Royal Donation
     of L. 2000.

   SIR
   I have at length the satisfaction to inform you, that the Second Vo-
lume of the STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND will be pu-
blished on the 25th current; and that the Third, the Fourth, and the
Fifth Volumes of that Work, (which will comprise a considerable propor-
tion of the kingdom), are in the press, and will be printed without delay.
You may easily suppose, how desirable it must be, on many accounts, to
have an undertaking of a nature of laborious and important, brought to a
conclusion.  The public at large are anxious to have it completed, on ac-
count of the many beneficial consequences, which must necessarily result
from it:  The Sooner it can be finished, the greater will be the credit, which
will accrue to those, by whose zeal and exertions, this great Inquiry has
been carried forward.  And, when the Work is finished, I have the plea-
sure of adding, that it will then be in my power, to present to the very
useful Society, lately constituted, for the benefit of the Sons of the Clergy,
a sum which will enable that Institution to begin its laudable operations*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Society's funds, on 15th June 1791, amounted to L. 1060; but
it did not propose to distribute any part of its income until the capital


