
     Of Kilsinichen and Kilviceuen.

Grace's benevolent and patriotic intentions are, in a man-
ner frustrated, and the prospect of employing,in this
branch of industry, the many idle hands in the country
with benefit to themselves, and to the community, is
nearly vanished.  The fishing answered not the idea en-
tertained of the success that would attend it; and after a
deal of money sunk by his Grace, it is now followed on-
ly as a by-job*.
   Various causes might be assigned for the failure of the
fishing in Ross; and the few that follow, the incumbent
offers, with the greatest dissidence of his own ability to
judge in such a case.  The idea entertained by the fish-
ermen of the great sholes of fish upon the coast, and the
great profit they were to have, were to sanguine; and
and when they were, in some degree, disappointed, they
were too soon discouraged.  The want of markets also,
for other kinds of fish that were caught in great plenty,
was a misfortune that could not be helped, as there was
no town in the neighbourhood to take their fish off their
hands.  Even the crofts, which the fishermen had from
the bounty of the Duke of Argyll, and which they could
not want in such a country, hurt the fishing.  The first
years they took some time to accommodate themselves in
houses, etc.; and the season for labouring the crofts was

     VOL. XIV. Z

<FOOTNOTE>

*This failure is the more to be regretted, as it may discourage the
Duke of Argyll from giving any further encouragement to a scheme
that answered so ill upon trial.  It is particularly unlucky upon account
of the country, as the fishing would bring money into it; and no
people are better calculated for the fishing than the natives.  Accustomed
to boats from their infancy, by the almost insular situation of the pa-
rish, they pass through the boisterous seas surrounding its coasts, with as
much intrepidity, skill, and success, as the natives of Shetland.  They
were even at the first outlet as successful in fishing, and, in a little
time, cured eqaully well as these expert fishermen.


