
318                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	The alluvial deposits covering the solid rocks of granite are
principally gravel and boulders, which are dispersed over; the pa-
rish in great numbers.
	This quarry is worthy of the inspection of geologists.
	Lead has been discovered in different parts of the parish, par-
ticularly at Blair-wood, Drumore, Glen, and Mark; and fine
specimens of pure galena have been found in Monnipool. A
copper mine was opened lately at Craigneuk, but did not succeed.
Appearances of copper are also occasionally to be found in the
quarry.
	Zoology.--There are no rare species of animals to be found at
present in the parish; but, from organic remains, of a peculiar
formation and great size, occasionally found in the Cree, as well
as from antlers of very large dimensions, there can be no doubt
that animals of different kinds formerly existed in this district,
which have long ago disappeared.
	In 1684, Symson says, that the farmers of Galloway did not
kill any of their calves; and veal was only seen at the tables of a
few gentlemen. And as their wealth consisted chiefly in cattle,
they thought it very ill husbandry to sell for a shilling what in
three years would bring them twenty shillings. The price of Gal-
loway cattle has risen very much since Symson's time. In 1794,
the three-year-olds sold at L.7; and, in 1807, at L. 10. In 1814,
two-year-olds were,as high as L. 10, and three-year-olds, L. 14.
And in 1839, prices were, in some cases, even higher. Of course,
in the interval of these dates, many changes have taken place, and
prices have been occasionally very low.
	This parish cannot, perhaps, claim any pre-eminence in the breed-
ing of cattle, although some of the farmers have excellent stocks
of pure "Galloways." There are also some good Ayrshire cows,
which have of late been increasing. At Cassencarrie, Muirfad,
and Glen, there are now pretty extensive dairies, conducted upon
the Ayrshire plan.
	There are a few cattle in the parish of a mixed breed, consist-
ing of crosses between the Ayrshire, Galloway, and Irish.
        Mr M'Lean, estimated that there would be 1600 black cattle
in the parish in 1794. This number could not even now be well
wintered, but many more might be grazed in summer.
	The, native sheep of Galloway was a small handsome white-faced

"is liable to be acted upon by the atmosphere, and does not withstand the elements
so well as the softer and more manageable sandstone." It is the very reverse with
Galloway granite.


