
	296                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

           There are no villages in the parish besides Inver, which con
	tains merely a fishing population.
	   Means of Communication.-The parish is well supplied in all
	directions with public roads, which together amount to twenty
	miles in extent. A mail coach passes daily from and to Inverness,
	and proceeds north to the Meikle Ferry; and a mail gig runs daily
	between Tain and Bonar.  There has been established lately
	another daily coach to Inverness, which, in consequence of its les-
	sened fares and more convenient hours, has even already increas-
	ed the number of stage travellers, and which accordingly has every
	prospect of success.  The bridges, of which there are a consider-
	able number, on account of the numerous streamlets, are general-
	ly kept in good repair; and so, in general, are our stone fences;
	there are now almost no hedges, so much has the Scottish taste,
	in this respect, prevailed beyond even what we perceive it to have
	done, of old.
	  Ecclesiastical State.- From the charter of Charles II. it appears
	that Tain was formerly a collegiate charge,-though this would
	pear not to have continued beyond the times of Episcopacy.
	it is now, however, anxiously wished by many, that some such
	arrangement should again be brought about; as the almost equal
	division into Gaelic and English hearers, each class demanding at-
	tention equal to what a single congregation would require, renders
	the field of ministration too arduous for any single clergyman.
	St Duthus' church, though now vacated, might, it is believed, at,
	a moderate expense, be rendered a commodious place of worship
	for the Gaelic congregation. The new church was built in 1815,
	and is situated at the eastern extremity of the town, pretty near
	the centre of the parish. It was designed to accommodate 1200;
	and, though not constructed on the best acoustic principles, is, upon
	the whole, tolerably suitable. In St Duthus' church, all the sit-
	ting were free; in this church none are free. The average rent is 3s.
	The manse a handsome building, a short distance above the town,
	was  erected in 1824. The glebe attached is of the legal extent of
	four acres, worth about L.1. 10s. per acre yearly. The stipend
	is 18 chalders, half barley and half oatmeal, payable by the fiars
	prices of the county. There is always, a catechist in the parish,
	who has L. 3, 10s. of salary from the session-funds with what gra-
	tuities he may receive from the families he visits. The late cate-
	chist (who has died since this account has been commenced) enjoyed


