
                    PARISH OF LARGO.

        PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

           REV. ROBERT BROWN, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, Extent.-THIS parish is bounded on the east by the
parish of Newburn; on the west, by Scoonie; on the north, by
Ceres; and on the south by Largo Bay, in the Frith of Forth. It
extends from north to south nearly 6, from east to west an average
of 3 miles, and contains 6820 imperial acres.
   Topographical Appearances, and Geology.-It presents, through-
out, an unusual variety of ground, being finely diversified by ac-
clivities and plains. But the only hill deserving of that name is
Largo Law, of a conical form, and rising 910 feet above the level
of the sea, at a distance from it of two miles. At the Summit,
which is cleft in two, regular columns of basalt present themselves.
The south side, which is very precipitous, is composed of basalt,
the west and north-west of sandstone. The east slopes very gra-
dually, and consists of soft tuffa and debris of water-worn rocks and
gravel. To the west of Largo Law is a deep valley, named Keils
Glen, extending two miles, composed of sandstone, with beds of
shale, greenstone, with veins of felspar, calcareous spar, and wacke.
The sea coast, which is the southern boundary of the parish, forms
part of Largo Bay, which reaches from Kincraig point on the east,
to Methill point on the west, making a straight line between them
of 7 miles, and a semicircle of 10. In this bay, and especially in
the eastern curve, are found very satisfactory evidences of a sub-
marine forest. The neighbouring rocks are of the coal formation.
The bed on which the forest rests consists of firmly laminated brown
clay, covered with gravel and sand, above which is a bed of peat, com-
posed of land and fresh water plants. In this bed have been discovered
the remains of the birch, and hazel, and alder,-a trunk of the lat-
ter measuring six feet. Do not such appearances confirm the tradi-
tionary record which places the "Wood of Forth" in this locality?

<FOOTNOTE>A chemical analysis of the basaltic rocks of Largo Law has been published in the
Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal.


