
     of Dornoch.

with some even for two thirds of the year*.  There are no
field turnips cultivated here; and scarce any sown grass raised,
except in two or three places, the seats of men of property;
which are also the only inclosures in the parish.  Hence,
the arable ground is, for the greater part, in constant tillage.
It is therefore no wonder, that it yields poor crops, in return
for much labour and expence.  Lime is little known here, as a
manure.  The benefit of it is not understood:  nor could it
indeed be procured but at a heavy expence; for though there
are shells, the tenants cannot afford to burn them.  Towards
the shore, the prevailing crops are bear and pease; in the
more inland farms, oats; and of the last, different kinds of
white, and of small black oats are used, according to the va-
rious qualities and circumstances of the soil.  The people find
that great oats quickly degenerate in poor land; and while
they admit that this is the more fruitful gram, still they con-
tend, that the other is, on the whole, more productive, as be-
ing more numerous, and yielding more straw.  The average
returns of bear, may be from 5 to 6; of oats and pease,
from 3 to 4.  The two last are sown in April, and reaped,
the pease, in the end of August, and the oats in September.
The bear is sown in May, and ripe in August.  After a good
crop of potatoes, bailey, without any additional manure, is
expected, on the coast; but no oats, or very bad, after the
barley, which is succeeded by pease; and the following season,
the land is manured and sown with bear again.  In the inland
parts, oats are sown after potatoes.  Some farms yield three
or more crops of oats in succession; but the sandy soil along

<FOOTNOTE>

*Many poor families, who rent no land, are accommodated by others with
a spot for this useful root, for the sake of the dung, foot, or ashes which
they lay upon it; and this, while it contributes essentially to the subsistence of
the poorer fort, is also the most prevalent mode practised here for improving
and meliorating the soil.


