
	                     PARISH OF COYLTON.

	          PRESBYTERY OF AYR SYNOD OP GLASGOW AND AYR.

	            THE REV. ALEXANDER DUNCAN, MINISTER.


                     I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
       Name.--IN some old records, the name of this parish is written
Quiltoun and Cuiltoun, and more recently we find it Coiltoune
and Coyltoune. Some, on the authority of an old tradition, ima-
gine it took its name from Coilus, a king of the ancient Britons,
said to have been killed in a battle fought in the vicinity, and in-
terred near the ruins of the Old church inthe present burying
ground. Little trust can be put in this account. It is more
likely the parish received its appellation from some feature
characteristic of the district: or, from the river Coyl, which ris-
es in its upper extremity, and forms the boundary of the origi-
nal parish in nearly all its extent. And Coyl may be of Celtic
derivation,--Coill in Gaelic signifying wood, the plural of which
is Coiltean; or, it may be as Chalmers conjectures, from the
British Coil or Kell, a Grove; or the British Coll, the plural
Cyll or Kyll, signifying hazelwood, and the Saxon termination
ton. If, as is supposed, the district of Kyle was at one period a
forest and we may conjecture that the hazel abounded on the
banks of this river, and its contiguous dolls and ridges, both stream
and parish may have had their designation from this circumstance;
--and the name would then signify the stream Of the hazelwood
grove, the place of hazelwoods.
       Boundaries, Extent, &c.--The adjacent parishes are Dalmelling-
ton and Dalrymple on the south: Tarbolton and St Quivox on
the north; Ochiltree and Stair on the east; add Dalrymple and
Ayr on the west.
       Coylton is about twelve miles in extreme length; nearly two at
an average in breadth; and contains about eighteen square miles,
and 11,515 imperial, or 9160 Scotch acres.
       Topographical Apperances.--From the river Ayr, which flows
nearly four miles along its north-west side, separating it from Tar-
bolton and St Quivox, it ascends in a south-eastern direction, with


