
   1134                        PERTHSHIRE.

   course is fotind to stieceed remarkably well, especially if a little
   manure is given to the ground on sowing the barley or grass seed.
   The good effects of doing so are very visible on the succeeding
   crops of this rotation.
      Produce.-On the clay soils, fine wheat is raised at about eight
   or nine bolls per imperial acre; and as the tenants of such farms
   depend chiefly thereupon, they regulate their rotation and manage-
   ment accordingly.  On other farms, barley and oats are chiefly
   raised, producing from five to eight bolls per acre.  Much less
   barley is now sown than formerly, oat-straw bding greatly pre-
   ferred for feeding cattle.  A great extent of potatoes is annually
   planted for the London market.  It seems to be upon these, and
   upon fat cattle, that the farmers now depend for their remunerat-
   ing prices.  Turnip husbandry is much cultivated; and, if raised
   from bone-dust, the one-half of the crop is consumed by the cattle
   in the byres or cattle sheds, and the other half is eaten on the
   ground by sheep.   The rearing of horses for sale is now much
   less attended to, owing chiefly to the want of due encouragement
   from the increased travelling by railways.
      Improvements.-Very extensive improvements have recently
   been made on the estate of Arntully, and are still going on.  A
   sum of nearly L.4000 has been spent by Sir W. D. Stewart in
   trenching and improving 284 imperial acres of moorland; and it
   is gratifying, to remark that the crops of potatoes, wheat, &e. that
   have been raised, are such as promise to remunerate the proprie-
   tor for his great outlay.  Embankments at different places along
   the Tay on the property of Baroness Keith are at present in pro-
   gress; partly for the purpose of improving the scenery, and partly
   to protect the fields against the sudden and sometimes destructive
   inundations that take place, after extensive meltings of the snow on
   the Highland mountains.
      Plantations.-Several plantations of common fir are found in
   different parts of the parish. One of these on the Kinclaven es-
   tate was lately cut down, and although growing on very inferior
   soil, brought upwards of L.I per acre per annum during its
   growth. It is to be regretted that the larch plantations that have
   been formed, during the last twenty or twenty-five years, have nearly
   all failed, from the effects of that inexplicable disease which has
   appeared so generally to attack the larches planted about that pe-
   riod. On the Taymount estate, twenty acres have recently been
   cut down in a state of entire decays.  There are many thriving and


