
200                       WIGTONSHIRE.

the first Protestant minister of the parish, though his place of
worship was about a mile distant, on the farm of Mull, the old
church already mentioned, and said by Chalmers to be dedicated
to St Medan.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The length of the parish in a direct
line may be about 10 miles, and 12 miles by the roads. Its breadth
varies from somewhat less than 1 1/2 to upwards of 3 1/2 miles: and its
area may be about 20 square miles. On the north north-west, it is
united to the parish of Stonykirk by a boundary of about 2 miles
in length. The sea is its boundary on all other sides.
	Topography.--The form of the parish is very irregular and not
earily described. The public road enters at the north-east cor-
ner, at a small modern building of antique construction erected as
a porter's lodge, or to commemorate the name of a place where, in
old times, stood a kirk or chapel called Chapelrossan, or the chapel
of the promontory. On proceeding a mile to the south-west, the
mansion-house of Logan is seen on the right. It is small for the
extent of the property, but handsome, commodious, and pleasantly
situated. The road here separates, one line skirting the Bay of
Luce to the village of Drumore; the other leading to the Irish
sea at the Bay of Portnessock. The parish here, to the extent of
nearly 3 miles, is generally low and diversified with eminences,
some of which are tastefully adorned with clumps of plantation.
The village and harbour of Port Logan, in the south-east corner
of Portnessock Bay, is a bare, bleak, unattractive-looking place in
winter; but affords a delightful summer residence for those who
take pleasure in sea scenery and amusements. The breadth of
the parish here is about a-mile and a half. On leaving Port Logan,
the road winds over a mountainous ridge, which stretches from sea
to sea, a distance of more than two miles, descending rapidly into
a narrow valley, also extending to the sea on both sides,--an extent
of about a-mile and a-half. On the right in this vale, are seen
the ruins of Cartle Clanyard, in old times the reridence of a fa-
mily of the name of Gordon, a collateral branch of the House of
Kenmure. Hence, a mile of tip-hill road leads to the church, a
building of the most mean appearance, and only remarkable for
its elevated situation. The width of the parish here is conside-
rably increased; and about a mile and a half farther south, is at
its greatest, nearly four miles.
	Mull of Galloway.--The extremity of the Mull of Galloway
lies south-south-east from the church, at a distance of about six
                                  4


