
292			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

rage of about half a mile in breadth; Loch Skero, about half a
mile square; the two Lochs Fleet. These lakes are all situated
on the high mountain range on the north of the parish. Loch
Whinnyan is on the east, on the borders of Twynholm. From
each of the Lochs Fleet a streamlet flows; and these uniting form
what is called the Little Water of Fleet. After a course of a few
miles, this stream is joined, by a similar small river, termed the
Great Water of Fleet. From these the Fleet is formed, which,
dividing Girthon from Anwoth, discharges itself, after many wind-
ings, into the Fleet Bay, an estuary of the Irish Sea. This river
is navigable for vessels of 160 tons burden, to the town of Gate-
house of Fleet, a distance of about three miles. In order to faci-
litate the navigation to Gatehouse, and to reclaim a considerable
portion of land, which, at high water, was covered by the sea, Mr
Murray of Broughton has constructed a canal, which, besides
gaining the two objects in question, has greatly shortened the dis-
tance between the Fleet Bay and the town. Of this canal, which
was begun on the 17th of June 1824, and opened on the 3d of
October following, the length, is 1400 yards. The cost was cal-
culated by an eminent engineer at about L.5000, and the time
required for constructing it, to be two summers. But Alexander
Craig, Esq., then Mr Murray's factor, and whose ingenuity is well
known, setting his local knowledge in opposition to the science of
the engineer, cut a narrow trough along the centre of the pro-
jected line of the canal, and of nearly the depth to which it was
to be excavated, into which he forced the water of the Fleet.
The result corresponded with Mr Craig's anticipations; for, in
the course of only two days, the river formed a channel for itself
of the exact width and depth required; and the total expense, in-
stead of being L.5000, was greatly under the half of that sum,--
being only L.2204, 3s. 5d.! Nor is this all: no repairs have
since been necessary to maintain or secure the banks of the can`l
so rapidly and singularly formed. There is another remarkable
circumstance in connexion with the construction of this work. A
rook on each side of its banks, directly opposite to each other, and
nearly level with the bottom, jutted out; and on these rocks the
pins of a swing bridge have been erected, which affords great con-
venience to the neighbourhood, and has enabled Mr Murray to
remove the parish road from his domain. Thirty-six acres inter-
vened between the line of the canal and the bed of the river, of
which 15 belonged to Anwoth; and the quantity of land reclaimed

