
856                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

pense of the delivery of grain, independently of tear and wear,
and loss of time, is at present one-tenth to one-twelfth of the whole
value.  The state of the roads is another barrier to the progress
of agricultural improvement.  While most parishes enjoy the be-
nefit of turnpike roads, no provision has been made to facilitate
the intercourse with this parish, besides the scanty pittance of the
road assessment.  A turnpike road through the parish, in continu-
ation of the turnpike road, to Premnay onwards to Rhynie, would
be of incalculable advantage to this parish and surrounding district,
and, besides, would furnish a very profitable investment to the mo-
ney-lender; and for the toll-duty, the farmer would receive a more
than adequate compensation in the comparative ease to his horses,
and the additional quantity of grain, lime, &c. which they could
convey.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-In virtue of the privileges conferred upon the
town and village of Clatt, as a burgh of barony, markets were for-
merly held on the Tuesday of every week, and many of the inha-
bitants have a distinct recollection of the market cross.  The week-
ly markets have, for many years, fallen into desuetude, and have
been substituted bv two annual fairs, one in the month of May for
the sale of sheep and cattle, and for engaging servants, and the
other in November, which is chiefly frequented as a grain and fee-
ing market.  Huntly, at a distance of nine miles, is the nearest
market-town, but the village contains within itself the requisite
tradesmen, and furnishes a supply of the usual mercantile commo-
dities.  Though the population of the village does not exceed 90,
yet in that limited number are comprehended, 4 carpenters, 4
blacksmiths, 1 flesher, 1 shoemaker, 1 turner, 1 merchant, 1 tai-
lor, 1 harness-maker, 1 carrier, 1 miller, and 4 weavers.
   Means of Communication.-The parish has not, as yet, the ad-
vantage of a regular post office, but there is a post runner daily,
from Rhynie to Clatt.  The parish is intersected by two patent
roads, the one called " the North and South Road," forming part
of the military line of road from Edinburgh to Huntly, &c., and
the other a continuation of the public road from Aberdeen to Rhy-
nie, Cabrach, &c.  Both roads meet at a comfortable inn, Ford
of Clatt, established for the accommodation of travellers, and,
after passing-through the village northwards, diverge into different
directions.  In travelling the military line from Edinbuigh there
is a saving of thirty miles; but, from the intervention of the


