
564			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

houses. It would be better if there were none, and there is no
necessity for them. The practice, secured by the last turnpike
act, of granting licenses to toll-houses indiscriminately, can neither
be justified by any principle of utility, nor an enlightened regard
to the economy and happiness of the people.
	Means of Communication.--These means, in this parish, are of
the first order. The roads, extending to nearly thirty miles, so
intersect the parish, as to render every part of it of easy access.
They are kept in repair by the statute labour conversion money,
and they are in the very best travelling condition. The assessment
on the lands is L. 60 per annum.
	The great trust road from Carlisle to Glasgow by Dumfries
passes through the parish near the manse. A daily coach from
Carlisle to Glasgow passes in the morning; and one from Glas-
gow to Carlisle in the afternoon. There is a coach from Dum-
fries to Edinburgh, and another from Dumfries to Glasgow by
Ayr, which passes three times a-week.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church of Holywood was built in
1779. It is a most comfortable building for the purpose. It has
a square tower, of simple architecture. The situation of the church
is incommodious, being not more than a mile from the lower part
of the parish, and more than eight miles from the remotest house
at the upper part of it. It is seated to contain, by legal measure-
ment, 530 sitters, but 600 can be suitably accommodated. The
number of communicants is 300.
	The manse was built in 1773, and it and the church were com-
pletely repaired at an expense above L. 400, in 1821. The glebe
contains eight acres of good arable land. The manse, offices,
garden, &c. contain one acre of this quantity. The stipend was
augmented in 1805, and is L. 174, 64 pecks of bear, Nithsdale
measure, 66 1/4 imperial bushels and 2 bolls of oat-meal, Nithsdale
measure. In these is included L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
ments. The net stipend is about L. 181.
	The following is the number of Dissenters in the parish:--Unit-
ed Secession, 20; Reformed Presbytery, 4; Relief, 6; Episco-
palians, 6; Catholics, not natives, 10; total, 46.
	Ministers of Holywood.--In the ptrish records the following list
is preserved of those who were ministers in this parish :
	1. Mr Robert French was the first Presbyterian minister.
	2. Mr Adam Rae, who preached two Sabbaths at Holywood,
and one at Keir by turns.


