
458				LANARKSHIRE.

wars, when foreign fruit was in a great measure excluded, and even
that from England and Ireland was with difficulty brought to our
markets, a considerable quantity of ground was planted with fruit
trees, which was well adapted for any species of husbandry. In
some cases, too, when a person had an orchard, but not of suffi-
cient extent to make it an object of attention to a purchaser, he
has been induced to enlarge it, by planting land which, in other
circumstances, would not have been so occupied. But it may be
remarked, that there is no profit in planting land with fruit trees
which would yield a rent of L.2, L.3, or L.4 per acre. The soil
of many of the orchards is naturally a stiff clay, and the most thriv-
ing trees and the finest fruit is in general to be found on the poor-
est land, provided due attention has been paid to the cultivation of
the orchard.
	In this parish, there are from forty-five to fifty acres in orchards,
which in some former years produced nearly L.900, but which can-
not now be rated above half that sum, though the quantity of fruit
produced may be five or six times greater. The average is now four
bolls per acre, at L.2, los. per boll. The value of the orchards
has of late years greatly decreased. This is owing to the ease
with which foreign fruit is now imported,--to the facility afforded
by steam-boats for the transmission of all kinds of produce from
England and Ireland, particularly the latter,--to the indifference
of many with regard to the quality of the fruit used,--if not also in
some degree to the decay of patriotic feeling.
	There is no situation on the Clyde more favourable for the cul-
tivation of orchards than this parish,--very few spots, indeed, equal.
The soil and subsoil and climate are suitable. Large fruit of all
kinds thrives well here, which is not the case in all the orchards on
the Clyde. Consequently, without any desire to disparage others,
there is not better fruit to be found in any part of the district, or
which is more sought after, by those who have ascertained its va-
lue. This excellence, I apprehend, is greatly owing to the nature
of the soil, for it is a fact well established, that all kinds of crops
grown upon a clay soil, and in a favourable situation and in a good
season, are superior in flavour to those produced on other soils, whe-
ther what is called dry-field or haugh-land. The ground is more
difficult to cultivate; but when a crop has been obtained though
inferior to that of other Iand in quantity, it surpasses it in quality.
The Horticultural Society, who have encouraged competition for
the largest vegetables and fruits, ought also to test the above fact;


