
     of Castletown.

   Minerals.-There is great plenty of lime-stone in the
parish, of different qualities.  A draw kiln was erected last
year on the Hermitage, and burns a considerable quantity,
Several pits of marl are found on the farms of Flight, Kers-
hope, and Tweeden, to appearance of excellent quality;
but this, as well as other treasures, are locked up from use
by the want of roads.  Besides, the coal mentioned at
Lawstown, some small crop seams appear on the Tweeden,
etc.  From the strata of metals, it is apprehended, there is
coal in several places, but no trials to any great extent
have been made.  Free-stone quarries of excellent stone
are every where found, excepting at the head of the Her-
mitage, where there is nothing but blue whin-stone.

   Medicinal Springs.-There are several springs in this
rish, strongly impregnated with sulphur.  There is one at
the head of it, in that part called the Dead Water, unfor-
tunately situated in the middle of that vast morass where
the Liddal and the Tyne take their rise.  In wet seasons
it is weakened by the surrounding water.  It is much fre-
quented by persons afflicted with cutaneous and scrophulous
complaints, who receive great benefit from it.  They drink
the water, and use it as a warm bath, But the patients

<FOOTNOTE>

talons.  Struck with the novelty of the sight, he kept his eye upon the
bird, and saw him sit down at a little distance.  He ran to the spot, when
the eagle had disengaged from his talons a fine lamb, and was preparing
to tear him in pieces, which the man rescued, and carried home.  At
that instant, a medical gentleman was visiting a patient in the shepherd's
family.  He examined the lamb, found it a fine male, the skin of the
shoulder torn, but the bone had prevented the talons from injuring the
vital parts; he sewed up the wound, and it recovered and did well.  On
enquiry it was found, that the shepherd of Peel, the same morning, saw
an eagle seize a lamb of his flock, and fly off with it, in the line of di-
rection to the place where the lamb was found.  The distance of the one
place from the other is not less than five miles JOHN ELLIOT, of Red-
heugh, Esq; furnished the writer with this anecdote.


