
     University and King's College of Aberdeen.

said to have expended the whole revenue in pious and chari-
table uses.  Beside the additions which he made to the edi-
fices of the college and the cathedral, he completed the
bridge over the Dee; and, hard by the cathedral, he built
an hospital as a memorial of his name to future times.

   Bishop Stewart-Bishop Stewart, who next succeeded to
the see, added both to the buildings and to the revenue of
the College, which, till the period of the Reformation, ap-
pears to have been in a very flourishing state*.

   Hector Boyes, first Principal.-The first Principal, Hector
Boeth, or Boyes, eminent both as a biographer and historian,
was brought from the University of Paris, where he taught
philosophy, by his particular friend the founder, to com-
mence the course of education in his College of Aberdeen.

   William Hay, first Sub-Principal.-The first sub-principal,
William Hay, accompanied Herctor Boyes from Paris, in
which University he had also taught philosphy.  He suc-
ceeded Boyes in the office of Principal.

     I 2

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The flourishing state of the University in 1541 appears from the following
passage in Leslie:-'Rex deinde (anno 1541) ac piurima nobilities Reginan ad
'Aberdonensem Acadsmiam comitabantur, in qua cives et scholastici officles di-
'versis, illi triumphis publicis, hi exercitationibus privatis animos voluntaresque
'suas certatim conabantur declarare.  Nam nullla eflluxetar dies, in qua
'comedi‘ in theatrum non inducerentur, ant controverti‘ or omni artium ge-
'nere depromtie non agitarentur, aut orationes in Gr‘ca Latinaque lingua
'summo artificio instruct‘ non haberentur aut ali‘ id genus exercitation non
'instituerentur.  Quo officiorum genere tum Rex ne Regma 15 integros dies
'non fine summa voir prate ac singulare scholasricorum laude eumularotaorpo.
'Episcopo ins ogerunt, non forum quod illos tanto tempore hono-
'rifice tractavit: verum etiam quod Academia tam insigniter constitut‘, auc-
'tor in primis suit.-Lest‘us de rebus gestis Scotorum, lib. ix. p. 230.

</UNREADABLE>


