
SANDSTINa AND AITHSTING.                       141

Superstitions.-A considerable number -of the' people bellievw
in and practise any superstitious rites.  The fishermen, when,
about to proceed to the fishing, think they would have bad
luck, if they were to row the boat 16 withershins" about.  They
always consider it necessary to turn her with the sun.  Neither do
they give the sanie name to most of the things in the boat, and to
several on shore, by which they are usually known.  But supersti-
tious observances are not confined to the men only, their wives
also share in them, and even carry them to a greater extent.
These are practised chiefly, in attempting to cure diseases in ma                              n
and beast, or in taking away the 11 profits" of their neighbour's
cows ; that is, in appropriating, by certain charms, to their own
dairy, the milk and butter which should have replenished that. of
their neigbbour.  I shall subjoin a few specimens.

<FOOTNOTE>Wresting Thread-When a perqon has received a sprain,. it is customary to app?y
to an individual practised in casting the 11 wresting thread.  "This is a thread spun
from black wool, on which are cast nine knots, and tied round a sprained log or arm'
During the time the operator is putting the thread round the affected limb-be says,
but in such a tone of voice as not to be heard by the bystanders, nor even by the per-
son operated upon,
                            " The Lord rade.
                              And the foal slade;
                              Ile lighted,
                              And he righted.
                              Set joint to joint,
                              Bone to bone,
                              And sinew to sinew.
                              Heal in the Holy Ghost's name!"
Ringworm.-The person afflicted with ringworm takes a little ashes between the
forefinger and thumb, three successive mornings, and before having taken any food
and holding the ashes to the part affiected, says,
                        "Ringworm! ringworm red!
                         Never mayest thou either spread or speed;
                         But aye grow less and less,
                         And die away among the ase,' (ashes,)
at the same time, throwing the little ashes held between the forefinger and thumb
into the fire.
Burn.-To cure a burn, the following words are used: -
                         "Here come I to cure a burnt sore;
                          if the dead knew what the living endure,
                          The burnt sore wo    Id burn -no more."
The operator, after having repeated the above, blows his breath three times upon the
burnt place.  The above is recorded to have been communicated to a daughter whO4
had been burned by the spirit of her deceased mother.
Fey Falk.-It is a practice with some to burn the straw on which a corpse has
lain, and to examine very narrowly the ashes, from a belief that the print of thi in-
dividual's foot, who is next to be carried to the grave, will be discovered.  The straw
is set on fire, when the body is Iifted and the funeral company are leaving the house-
Elf-shot.-A notion is prevalent in the parish, that when a cow is suddenly taken
ill, she is elf-shot; that is, that a kind of spirits called "trows," different in; their
nature from Cairies, have discharged a stone arrow at her, and wounded her with It
Though no wound can be seen externally, there 'are different persons, both males and
females, who pretend to feel it in the flisb, and to cure it by repeating certain words
over the cow.  They also fold a sewing needle in a leaf taken from a particular part
of a psalm book, and  secure it in the hair of the cow, which is considered, not only


