
                            MINTO.                            371

at Minto occupied the situation of the present mansion-house, and
is named in the list of those which were destroyed by the Earl of
Hertford in 1545.  The only vestige of any interest which has sur-
vived, is a ruin of small size, but considerable strength, placed on
the summit of the Craigs, commonly called Fatlips Castle, but from
what circumstance does not appear.  It is figured in Grose's views in
Scotland, and seems at that time to have had a part of the second
story left, which is now wanting.  It is supposed to have been a
stronghold belonging to Turnbull of Barnhills, whose bed, or place
of outlook, is on a projecting platform immediately beneath ; and an-.
other tower, also assigned to that noted freebooter, is situated a little
to the east, at the boundary between Minto and Ancrum parishes.
The old church at Minto, taken down in 1831, was a very plain
building, the greater part of which may have been erected since the
Reformation ; but one end, containing a pointed arch, was evidently
more ancient, and some stones built into the walls, and, as it was very
curious to observe, with their carved sides uniformly turned in -
wards, must have belonged to a structure, which, judging by these
fragments, had been tastefully ornamented.  On removing the
foundation of one of the walls, at a few inches from the surface
inside the building, and under two small stones placed on end and
meeting at top, a collection of about 400 small silver coins
was found, chiefly silver pennies, of Edward I. II. II., with one or
two of the Scottish Kings Alexander and Robert. * But this place
would appear formerly to have been the depositary of more trea-
sure than this ; for, from the Criminal Trials before alluded to, we
learn that, on the "21st November 1493, John Sinclare in Mynto,
and 4 others came in the King's will for treasonably concealing and
stouthreif of X\pxx pas pennys pertaining to the King, found in the

<FOOTNOTE>There is reason to believe that various objects of antiquarian interest are from
time to time discovered in this district, many of which are afterwards either destroy-
ed or thrown aside.   Two that have recently come into the possession of the writer
may be worthy of notice.  The one is a silver hoop ring of massive dimensions,
weighing six pennyweight ten grains; it is bevelled to fit the tapering of the finger,
and had been gilt.  It bears the following inscription, terminated by a cross, each
letter being contained in a separate square compartment, ??? MA.  This may sig
nify Jesus of Nazareth, and most probably the ornament was worn by some priest or
monks. The other is an ancient seal, in the form of a thin circular plate, of copper,
an inch and a half in diameter, on which is cut a rude representation of the Paschal
Lamb, with the fore legs singularly crossed, surmounted by a banner.  Round that
margin is the legend 8 ADEN PASTOA XI.  The most probable conjecture is, that this
was the seat belonging to the individual who had the charge of the flocks of one of
the great monastic Institutions, inscribed with his name and office.  Aden, or Alden.
is a name frequently met with in old documents ; an individual so called was " Se-
nescaldus,"or  Steward at Melrose under the reign of William the Lion, in the
twelfth century.


