
84                       DUMBARTONSHIRE.

   Surface.-The superficial character of the ground does not ad-
mit of much variety, rising on either band from the Clyde and
the Leven by a gradual ascent. The ridge thus formed does not
present much irregularity, and is not intersected by any valleys of
importance, nor by any considerable streams or lakes. Its greatest
elevation, at the summits of the Kiliter and Carman, is 943 feet.
In tracing the shores of the Clyde, we find extensive banks of blue
adhesive clay, stretching more than half across the bed of the river,
which is from one to two miles wide. They are covered with a
few inches of sand interspersed with shingly stones, and are over-
flowed at high water. By judicious embankments a large portion
of this unprofitable surface might be gained and improved. The
only remarkable feature on this coast is Ardmore, "the great pro-
montory," which forms a conspicuous object in the Frith. Ori-
ginally an insulated rock in the river, the gradually receding	waters
have left it surrounded by a considerable flat, and united to the
mainland by a narrow isthmus. The rock is nearly circular, rising
precipitously about 40 feet, and affording on the top a table of
good soil. It is a muddy red breccia or puddingstone, imbedding
rounded pebbles chiefly of quartz, being the same formation with
the nearest point of the Kiliter range, from which it is distant
about half a-mile. This head-land may be considered the limit of
the river Clyde on the northern shore, as the Frith here suddenly
doubles in breadth, and assumes the character of an arm of the sea
   Geology.-- The geological character of this parish belongs tothe
secondary formation. The predominating rock is freestone, which
towards the east end is of a reddish colour and friable quality. At
Keppocb it occurs of a bluish gray colour and better description,
in contact with the breccia of the Kiliter, which we have already
described. It is remarkable that both of these run in parallel lines
or dikes to the north-eastward; the former appearing at Tulli-
chewan, Balloch, and Buchanan, while the latter can easily be
traced from Ardmore, by the Kiliter and Inchmurrin, to Balmaha.
On the north-western side of the Kiliter, we find a considerable
dike of jasper, of a coarse bard quality, interposed between the
breccia and the sandstone, the latter of which again appears on the
estate of CamisEskan, containing veins of limestone. This last
occurs in the glens, and has occasionally been worked; but its ad-
mixture with sand and magnesian earth renders it better for the pur-
poses of building than for manure.
   Soil.--The soil is generally of a light gravelly description,
                               3


