
                            SCONE.                            1061

     modern ornaments, some antique cabinets that had been in the
     former house.  In these rooms there are several valuable paintings
     by Vandyke, Titian, Guido, Paul Veronese, Toniers, &c.  There
     is a "Dutch Burgomaster" by Rembrandt, and a portrait of Bas-
     sano by himself ; a "Denial of St Peter," and a "Judith and
     Holofernes," by two old masters.  There are some excellent por-
     traits by Sir Peter Lely, exhibiting all the softness, beauty, and
     delicacy of his style.  Among the family portraits are those of the
     first Earl of Mansfield, the second Earl, the late Earl, the Coun-
     tess Dowager, &c.  As a modern room, the drawing-room is the
     finest.  It commands one of the most magnificent views that can
     be found, from any point, of the richest parts of Perthshire, and
     its interior is fitted up with great elegance.
       There seems to have been an intention to combine with the
     splendour and comfort of the present age, sole remembrance of
     the simplicity of the past.   The entrance, for example, has an air
     of antiquity, having an ancient hnocker with the initials D. V. S.
     The door-way is surmounted with the arms of Lord Mansfield in
     stone, and the motto, "uni aquus virtuti."  The house is par-
     tially surrounded by terrace walls, and bastions, one of which com-
     mands a very extensive view.   There are several large trees at a
     short distance, one of them an ash, said to have been planted by
     James VI., and many ash and sycamore trees about 300 years of
     age.  One is commonly known as Queen Mary's tree.  The
     ground slopes gradually to the Tay, which flows within about 600
     yards of the palace.  The house may be approached either through
     an ancient gateway on the cast, or by the modern terrace gate on
     the south, to which there is a drive entering the park at the dis-
     tance of about a mile from Perth.  This new drive passes over
     a bridge which crosses a ravine at no great distance from the ter-
     race gate.   The gardens lie to the south-east of the palace.  At
     the recent visit of the Queen to Scone Palace, the royal cortege
     entered by the terrace gate, and were received at the grand en-
     trance by the Earl of Mansfield, the Countess Dowager, and the
     Ladies Mtrray.  Apartments were fitted up with great elegance
     for her Majesty and Prince Albert.  The Queen reached Scone
     Palace about seven o'clock P.M. on Tuesday, September 6, 1842,
     and left early next day for Dunkeld and Taymouth.  Among the va-
     rious costly preparations made for her Majesty's reception may be
     mentioned two magnificent chairs, quite unique, procured from Lon-
     don, on which the Queen and Prince Albert sat at dinner.  The carv-
     ing and other rich ornaments of the royal bed with the furniture


