
              478                         ARGYLESIHRE.

              clivity in the land, it flows from its outlet till its termination with
              great impetuosity over rocks and granite boulders; and from the
              rapidity of its course, and the volume of its waters, it is believed
              that few of our Scottish rivers discharge so great a quantity of
              water within the year into the sea.  Having Lochawe as its source,
              the, flow of the Awe is more equable than that of most other
              streams; for, though greatly enlarged after continued rains, it does
              not rise so rapidly nor fall so suddenly as rivers generally do.  Its
              banks, particularly from a little above the bridge of Awe down-
              wards, are richly wooded; and throughout its interesting course,
              there are few rivers where the expert angler, who does not object to
              wade as well as to ply his fishing-rod, may calculate on meeting
              with better success.
                 The Etive, next to the Awe, is our largest river.  It flows in a
              westerly and south-west direction, and its length, from its source
              near to King's-house to the head of Loch-etive, is sixteen miles.
              An inconsiderable rill at its commencement, it receives in its course
              the confluence of numberless tributaries, and thus swells to the
              dimensions of a pretty broad river before it mingles its waters with
              Loch-etive.  By competent judges who have tested the fact, the
              Etive is represented as a good fishing stream, though little known
              to anglers; and the tourist, in ascending its banks, will be gratified
              with the view of two fine cascades, the first near to Coinletter, and
              the other, more striking still, close by Dalness.
                The Kinglas is considerably less than the Etive, though after
              rain it becomes a very formidable stream.  Its course is south-
              west; its length about twelve miles; and, as it flows in a channel
              composed of shelving rocks and granite stones its waters are per-
              fectly clear,-a remark which holds as to all our rivers.  Salmon
              are pretty numerous.  The use of stake-nets in Loch-etive has been
              allowed.
                The Liver is less than the Kinglas, and is situated towards
              the south from that rover.  Its lenght is six miles, its direction is
              westerly, and, as the name of the farm imports, it falls into Loch-
              etive at Inverliver.
                The Noe lies south of the Kinglas, and is nearly equal to the
              latter in size.  Its direction also is similar; and throughout its
              course, of four miles, it waters the valley already described under
              the name of Glen-noe, exhibiting, about a mile beyond its conflu-
              ence with Loch-etive, a cascade, the sight of which can scarcely
              fail to gratify, especially if seen when the Noe has been swelled



