
                            ARBIRLOT.                          335

old church was seated at the expense of the farmers, and its seats
being used for the new one, the farmers consider themselves pro-
prietors of the seats, and entitled to charge rent for the same; and
rents some of them do charge. The aisle, which contains most of
the additional sitting mentioned above, Was built at the expense
of the kirk-ression, who have found in it a very profitable invest-
ment of their money.
	The manse is more than a hundred years old, and is in a very
bad state; but steps have been taken towards the erection of a
new one.  The number of acrer hn the glebe is 4, and the mini-
ster receives L. 20 Scots in lieu of two acres of grass. The sti-
pend, when grain is L. 1 per boll, is about L. 197, of which there
is more than L. 150 of money.
	All the families in the parish belong to the Established Church
with the exception of 2; and there are only 9 communicants is
the parish who belong to dissenting bodies. The services in the
Established Church are well attended. The inhabitants are a
church-going people; aud the average number communicating, each
year, is fully 500; of this number, between 40 and 50 belong to
district of the parish of St Vigeans, the inhabitants of which attend
the church of Arbirlot, being separated by this parish from their
own.
	Though there was at one time a society for religious purposes
in the parish, there is none at present; but steps have been taken
by the presbytery of Arbroath to establish such in all the parishes
within its bounds.
        Education.-There are 3 schools in the parish;-one of these.
the parochial school; and the other two, uneadowed schools,
one of which is kept by a female.
	The parochial teacher has the maximum salary, and 8 bolls of
meal, and the interest of L. 100 in addition. He has a good gar-
den and an excellent house containing five rooms. His fees may
amount to L. 15 a year.
	There are 2 married men and 1 woman hn the parish who can-
not read; none of them are natives of this parish.
        There are 4 Sabbath schools in the parish;-one of these is
taught by the minister, and is in summer attended by about 70 or
80 persons; the other three are planted, in different parts of the
parish, are managed by 18 teachers, and attended by about 170
scholars.
        Library.-About four years ago, a parochial library was formed;


