
			KILMONIVAIG.                          507

loch, * who both about the same time described these roads, account
for their formation thus: In lochs which have steep banks covered
with somewhat loose materials, rains and storms burry down earth
and stones, which have their motion checked when they reach the
waters, and then form a projecting ledge or shelf, which is nearly
on a level with its littoral surface, and slopes gradually onwards
below its water, so that if the loch were partially drained a circu-
lar terrace would thus be left at its former margin. If a second
and third drainage took place at certain intervals, other terraces
would thus be formed till the whole waters were evacuated.
  It has been supposed, then, that Glenroy, Glen Gloy, and
Glen Spean, originally formed distinct lochs, each closed in by a
barrier at its end; that the barrier at Glenroy gave way partially,
so that the waters of the loch rushed out to a certain extent, and
left the highest terrace; succeeding evacuations formed the second
and third terraces in a similar manner, till at last the loch was com-
pletely emptied. At the period of the formation of the lowest
terrace, it is supposed Glenroy and Spean formed one continu-
ous line of water, because the same terrace extends along the side
of Glen Spean for twenty miles, while no trace of the higher ter-
races are found in the latter. Glen Gloy is supposed to have
formed a distinct loch, with the water elevated twelve feet above
the others, when, its, barrier giving way, it was at once emptied
without the formation of any more terraces. It must be ad-
mitted, however, that no vestiges of terraces or indications in
the strata, are now to be found. Mr Darwin has lately pro-
posed another theory: that the terraces are sea-beaches, form-
ed at the period when the now elevated land constituted a low and
level bay of the ocean, and that the periodical elevation of this
land gave time for the formation of two or three littoral indentations.
Mr Darwin illustrates his theory by analogous phenomena in Peru.

		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Antiqueties.-Inverlochy Castle.-Many stories are told, that as-
sign a great antiquity to this castle. But since certain documents
were brought to light by the late Donald Gregory, author of the
History of the Western Islands, its claims to high antiquity have
been reduced, as it appears to have been in still an unfinished
state in the time of Charles II. Near this castle, was fought what

<FOOTNOTE>Transactions of Royal Society of Edin. Vol. ix, Transactions of Geological
Society of London, Vol. iv. 1st Series.


