
                                  MOULIN.                         639

    tion may also account for other unexpected and sudden varia-
    tions to which we are liable.  The prevailing vinds are south-west
    and north-west, and east and south-east; and it is no uncommon
    phenomenon to observe the clouds travelling northward, while
    the wind on the surface of the earth blows in the opposite direc-
    tion.
      As a proof that we breathe the wholesome and bracing `ir of a
    highly salubrious climate, we may mention that, according to a
    census taken in December 1838, and January 1839, there were
    112 individuals in the parish above the age of seventy; of whom
    29 were above eighty, and 2 above ninety years of age.
      Distempers.-Rheumatism is the most common complaint, after
    which comes the whole class of inflammatory ailments, those of
    the chest occurring most frequently.  Typhus or infectious fevers
    scarce ever prevail, and only, exist when persons labouring under
    them are brought into the parish.   Hooping-cough, measles, scar-
    let fever, &c. visit the district occasionally-and also small-pox,
    but it is generally modified and seldom fatal, from the prevalent
    adoption of vaccination.  This operation, however, is not always
    left to our eminently skilful and much esteemed practitioner, Dr
    Irvine, and in consequence is less efficacious than it ought to be,
    on account of its being often performed by unqualified persons.
      Hydrography.-Tbe only l`ke is Lochbroom, (Loch Bhraoin,
    the lake of showers,) situated in a hill on the confines of the pa-
    rish of Moulin and Logierait; well known for the abundance and
    fine quality of its fish, and therefore often frequented by anglers
    during the summer months.
      Rivers.-The rivers are the Briarachan, Arnate, Ardale, Gar-
    ty and the Tummel.  The Briarachan, rising in the north of the
    parish, and after changing its name four different times, mingles
    its waters with the Tay above Kinclavin.  The Arnate, "Fearn-
    aite, the alder district," takes its rise from Lochloch in the north-
    east of the parish, and runs through Glenfarnate, and its junction
    with the Briarachan formr the Ardale.  The Ardle or Arn-
    dale, " Fearn-dail," the Ardle-dale, is formed by the junction of
    the two preceding rivers, and after a course of ten miles, joins the
    Black water. *  The principal rivers that wind their course through

    <FOOTNOTE>Thereis a tradition that the Ardle received its name from that of a person of dis
    tinction who was killed in an engagement fought between the Danes and the Cale
    donians, on its banks, near to the place where it is formed by the Briarachan Ar-
    nate.  The name of this personage was Ardle, Ard-fhuil, noble blood, and hence the


