
             42                             BANFFSHIRE.

             which people connected with sea-faring employments are so apt to
             take up. The two years preceding the last were indeed eminently
	     unsuccessful; but any discouragement thence arising does not
             seem to have affected the district generally, as it has done this particular
             port.  There is no doubt a want of space near the harbour
             for the erection of suitable premises; but even the space that exists
	     is not now employed.  The existence of a higher rate of shore
             dues at Banff than at some neighbouring ports is also stated to
             have a discouraging effebt; but still this cause does not operate in
             a higher degree now than formerly.
               Shipping. - The number of vessels now registered at Banff Custom-house
	     is as follows:

<TABLE>

                        No. of Vessels.      Denomination.         Tonnage.
                                  1              Brig,               155
                                 18              Scbooners,         1567
                                 48              sloops,            2579
                                ____                                ______
                          Total, 67                                 4301
             Of these 10 schooners (878 tons,) and II sloops (657 tons,) belong
	     to the port of Banff; the remainder belong to the creeks of
             Fraserburgh, Gardenstown, Macduff, Portsoy, Port-Gordon, and
             Garmouth, in the district of the port.
              The vessels of this and the neigbbouring ports are generally
             employed in carrying grain, herrings, salmon, live cattle, and cured
             pork to London, and some other places in the south, and return
             with coals, groceries, &c. &c.  Some of them take occasional
             voyages to Sweden for iron and deals; to Russia for hemp; and
             Holland, for flax.  They also in autumn go frequently to Hamburgh
	     with herrings, from whence they get cargoes of grain, wool,
             bark, hides, &c. to London, Hull, and the Frith of Forth.  A
             great proportion of the herrings which are sent to the Prussian
             ports in the Baltic is shipped by Prussian vessels, because these
             vessels, having to return home at any rate, take them for a somewhat
	     lower freight, and the Prussian merchants who purchase the
             herrings frequently order them to be shipped by their own vessels.
             But British vessels are also employed in carrying herrings to the
             Baltic; and, upon the whole, this part of the trade is pretty fairly
             divided between the ships of Britain and Prussia.
               There are four vessels (a schooner and three smacks) regularly
             engaged in the London trade, two, in the Leith, and two principally
	     in,the Aberdeen trade.
               The exportin of live-cattle to London was first tried, as a speculation,
	     in 1826, and since that time hu formed'a regular branch


