
                           ALFORD.                           523

so.  A particular inquiry has often elicited from themselves that
they are actuated by another motive. The public fund for the
supply of the poor is in their eyes too sacred to be applied to, but
when an overwhelming necessity compels.  To that fund they
themselves have willingly contributed, in their better days, from
motives of the noblest order, whose power does not diminish as
they approach the close of life.  They must not undo their own
charitable deed, by taking off the poor man's money.
   There is no difficulty whatever, experienced in supplying the
wants of the poor, in a competent manner, on the truly Christian
plan which we have now described.  There was even no difficulty
in the years of great scarcity, 1799-1800, and 1816-1817, when
the numbers of the poor were greatly increased ; for the kirk-
session, on an appeal to the heritors and inhabitants, were imme-
diately answered with supplies adequate to the urgency of the case.
   Fairs.-Two very considerable annual fairs are held in the pa-
rish for the sale of black-cattle, one on the Tuesday before the
second Wednesday of June, new style, and the other on the Friday
after the second Thursday of September, old style.  There is also
a fair for black-cattle and horses, and the sale of grain by sample,
on the first Monday of every month, from November to May, both
inclusive.
   Inn.-There is one inn in the parish.
   Fuel.-Of fuel there is a great deficiency.  The mosses are
nearly exhausted; and the were cutting, carting, and breaking up
the fire wood, which is very inferior, consisting only of thinnings,
make it as expensive as English coal.  Recourse is, therefore, of
necessity had to this last for a large part of the supply ; and the
prime cost and sea and land carriage to Alford of a ton of New-
castle coal is L.1, 15s.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
It has been seen that there are many things in this parish
which favourably influence the intellectual, moral, and reli-
gious character of the inhabitants, in which perhaps there has
been little change for nearly a century.  Respecting their phy-
sical condition, very valuable improvements have taken place
since the time of the former Statistical Account.  They are
much better lodged, and, on the whole, better clothed.  The
great improvements in agriculture have raised for them much
extended resources; of the benefit of which, however, the act of
1819, has in a great measure deprived them.  The more import-


