
	                   INVERKEITHING.	            239

without blanks, from 1676 to the present date. The register of
baptisms and marriages also extends from 1676 to the present
date, though from 1676 to 1698, in the same books with the ses-
sion minutes, and intermixed with them as they occurred, and with
the exception of a blank from 1711 to 1748, caused by the loss
of a book, which, according to an entry in the session minutes
about 1755, was taken to London as evidence in a law-suit about
1750, and never returned. There is a register of burials from
1702 to 1708, and for 1710, and of testimonials given and re-
ceived from 1701 to 1711.
   Antiquities.--On the top of Letham hill, there is what is said to
be the remains of a Druidical temple. To uninitiated eyes, it ap-
pears to be a few blocks of greenstone, somewhat circularly arranged
on the top of a greenstone hill, where such loose fragments of the
rock below are to be expected. In the north part of the parish,
there is a stone 10 feet high, 2 1/2 broad, and 1 thick, with rude
figures of men and horses cut upon it, but now much defaced, sup-
posed to be a Danish monument. Situated on a small rock, con-
nected by a causeway with the main-land, stands the Castle of Ro-
syth, noticed in the novel of the Abbot. It is a ruinous square tower,
forming the north-east angle of what must have been a pretty large
square of buildings. Over the gateway is a mouldered armorial
bearing, surmounted by a crown, and M. R. 1561. On the stone
bars of the great windows of the hall, which are evidently much
more recent than the original loop-holes, is "F * S" and M * N"

of persons rebuked before the congregation for swearing, drunkenness, stealing, for
not attending public worship, for being out of doors unnecessarily, or carrying water
on the Sabbath, for ferrying people across on the Sabbath without an order from the
minister, for abusive language or calling names, very frequently women for scolding,
once, a man for cursing and striking his wife, and another for consulting a "wiz-
ard." An offender, in addition to the usual censures and fine, is ordered to learn
to read within a year, under penalty of censure, if he shall be found "deficient in
learning." According to order of the Lord Ordinary, there is, in 1701, a guardian
of morality appointed in the parish, to put the laws in execution against immorality
and Profaneness, and there appears to have been a strict system of espionage esta-
blished in regard to these.
   In 1702, there is a named list of the communicants, chiefly females, amounting to
seventy-eight in all, and a few years after, a named list of elders, amounting to nine-
teen. During this period it is customary to mark in the minutes the name of any
stranger who may have preached, and very often the subject of his sermon. Even
on solemon occasions, decorum was evidently not very strictly observed in those days,
as at every sacrament there is a regular entry of a sum of money paid to the town
officers "for keeping off the thronge." Many irregular marriages are also recorded.
   About 1720, the parish seems to have been in a sad state so far as morality was
concerned, and also in the years preceding 1745 both periods of great political ex-
citement, Offenders during the time between these dates were also exceedingly re-
fractory and contumacious, and there appear to be good grounds for concluding that
the present generation and their fathers have improved very much upon their ances-
tors in those days, at least in sobriety and decency of behaviour.


