
                420                          ARGYLESHIRE.

                  Of late years, the spirit of agricultural improvement has carried
               the cultivator into the low rich lands of the valleys; and draining
               has enabled him to reap the reward of his enterprise.  Still, how-
               ever, there is a great want of a more extended system of perfect
               draining.
                  The soil of the pasture ground is no less diversified than the
               arable. Some of it is dry and kindly, and produces a sweet and
               fine pile of grass ; some of it wet and spongy, and covered with
               coarse grasses and rushes. Some of the flat grounds are marshy
               and some mossy, and a very considerable proportion of what is
               hilly, is covered with heath. Where these lands approach the
               sea, the growth of such plants is checked, and at last destroyed,
               a fine green pasture succeeding, which, under proper management,
               is capable of producing good crops of oats and sometimes bear.
               The shores afford striking examples of the fertilizing powers which
               the vicinitv of the salt water possesses, and of the influence it exerts
               in preventing the growth of bocr plants and the consequent gene-
               ration of peat. The same effects are produced by the application
               of calcareous manures, under which treatment the useless plants
               disappear, and are succeeded by verdant pastures. The gravel
               and boulders along the shore are generally composed of the neigh-
               bouring rocks. Great large sandstones, as they are called, ire
               found to consist of a kind of porphyritic granite, to which 1 know
               none similar in this district.  There is another variety with sinaller
               crystals of adularia or moonstone, something like specimens I have
               seen frorn Arran. There are also on the bills considerable blocks
               of mica and chlorite slate, basalt, clay stone porphyry; and the
               coast-gravel bontains all these kinds in small sizes, along with
               quartz nodules, evidently afforded by the conglomerate of the old
               red. All the trap rocks on the shore afford gravel and detached
               blocks close to the beach. There are two or three instances of
               banks formed and forming by drift-sand blowing 'from the beach
               along  the Pennyland, Brunerican, Machribeg, and Stratlinnore.
               This last is a very interesting barrier between the marine and fin-
               viatile depositaries, and every year the lower part to the westward
               of Strathnrore is in some degree altered. The sand and gravel
               thrown up by the powerful tide rolling, round the Mull of Kintyre
               into Carskey Bay , forces up an embankment which causes the

               Glen Breckry water abruptly to turn its course to the westward,
               and to run parallel to the sea coast till it reaches another stream
               from the Strone Glen, and their united streams fall into tile sea
                                                3


