
                    UNITED PARISHES OF

                    GARVALD AND BARA.*

     SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE, PRESBYTERY OF
                      HADDINGTON.

     THE REV.  JOHN SANGSTER, D. D. MINISTER.+

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-GARVALD is said to be compounded of the two Gaelic
words, Gar, signifying rough or rugged, and valid, a small water
or burn. This etymology is exactly descriptive of the local situa-
tion of Garvald; for the village is situated upon a small water or
burn, the bed of which abounds in stones. When this water is
flooded, such is the force and rapidity of the stream, that it sweeps
along and throws out upon the low grounds stones of great weight
and size.
   Extent.-The united parishes, of Garvald and Bara extend from
east to west about 8 or 9 miles, and from north to south about 4
or 5 miles. It is bounded by Gifford, Haddington, and Moreham
on the west; by Whittingham on the north and east; and by
Lauder on the south.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.-The figure of the parish is
irregular,-it being intersected by several of the adjacent parishes.
The grounds that lie in the south and north of these parishes ex-
hibit in their appearance a striking contrast to each other. Those
on the south are mostly covered with heath, of a mossy soil. The
range of the Lammermoor hills, which in these parishes extend from
east to west about 8 or 9 miles, is for the most part covered with
heath, interspersed with large plots of grass. The grounds that lie in
the north are of a deep rich clay soil, and produce excellent crops
of wheat, barley, oats, &c. Those towards the east are of a fine

<FOOTNOTE>* The parishes of Garvald and Bars, were United in 1702. The late incumbent's
immediate predecessor, Mr Archibald Blair, uncle the late Lord President preach-
ed, in terma of the decreet of annexation, at Garvald and Bars, per alternats vices,
till about the year 1743 or 1744, when the kirk of Bara fell into disrepair. It is now
a complete ruin.
   + Drawn up by Mr Thomas Burnet, Preacher of the Gospel.


