
2                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

is a conspicuous land-mark, called Bervie Brow, which is seen by
mariners at a great distance. Although it is in the parish of Kin-
neff, it may be noticed here; and it is also called the rncj of
Craig David, by the circumstance of that monarch's landing near
the spot. The hill called Gourdon Hill, in the parish of Bervie,
is also seen by mariners at a great distance.
	Meteorology.--The winds that generally prevail are the north
and north-east winds in winter; the south and south-east in the
spring; the south, south-west, and north-west generally in summer
and autumn. The climate is good; and, as a proof of its salubrious
nature, it may be mentioned, that there are few prevailing distem-
pers in the district. Influenza, however, has been very severe in
this parish during, the winter. Twenty persons belonging to the place
died of it in the course of a fortnight, and nearly the half of the
population were more or less affected, and confined to bed, by the
malady.  But, as it has been general in town and country through-
out Scotland, the prevalence of the disease here cannot be regard-
ed as any proof of the climate's being unfavourable to health in
general.
	Hydrography.--There are many excellent perennial springs in
the parish. The water for the supply of the town, after running
so far in a covered drain, is conveyed by leaden pipes to a cis-
tern, and thence to small wells of cast metal in the burgh,
which afford the inhabitants a regular supply of the very best
water. The only river near the parish is the Water nf Ber-
vie, which has its source among the Grampians, in the upper
district of the parish of Glenbervie. It has a course of nearly
twelve miles, and winds in beautiful curves as it runs on. Its
banks, as it passes through the parish of Arbuthnott, are here and
there diversified with fine thriving plantations, and enclosed fertile
fields and pastures, belonging to the Viscount of Arbuthnott;
and it runs into the sea at the eastern extremity of the parish of
Bervie. There is also a small burn, the Burn of Peattie, whose
water collects about the north-west boundary of the parish, and
runs in a short course from west to east into the Water of Bervie.
This little stream is found of great service to the tenants who have
their farms near it, as it affords a constant supply of water to their
cattle.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The soil of the low lands of the
parish is deservedly reckoned the most fertile in the county. It is
a fine, loam of considerable depth, resting on a bed of gravel, easily



