
290                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

rent of arable land per acre in this parish, as many of the best farms
are on old leases; and much inferior land has been lately brought
into cultivation.  Perhaps it might average about L.1 per acre, if
it were to be let at present.  Few grass parks are let; but the
average rate of grazing an ox is from L.2 to L.2, 10s.
   Live-Stock.-Since 1792, the number of cattle in the parish has
greatly inereased.  Cattle may now be estimated at upwards of 2000,
and horses from 300 to 400.  There are only about 600 or 700 sheep,
generally of the Cheviot or black-faced kind.  The cattle of this dis-
trict were crossed with the old Fife breed about sixty years ago, and
these produced the far-famed Aberdeenshire stock.  There have
been various unsuccessful attempts to improve this species, first by
tbe Lancashire, and afterwards the Galloway.  Efforts are now mak-
ing to improve it by means of the short-horned.  Whether these will
be more successful, time only can show.  The quality of horses has
been much improved of late years.  The general character of the
husbandry in this parish is excellent.  The old system of ploughing
with a number of oxen has been long disused.  Four of them are
still sometimes employed for the purpose of tearing in rough
ground covered with heath and whins.
   In 1791,thefirst thrashing-mill was erected in the parish.  At
present, almost every farm of 50 or 60 acres in extent has one.  As
the ground gently rises from both sides of the hollow, and as many
tributary rills fall into the Ythan, an opportunity has been afforded
in almost every ease of turning these by water, so that although there
are now about thirty machines in the parish, not more than four or
five of these are driven by horses.  Along with tbe system of fallowing
and cleaning the land, was introduced that of liming.  The whole
parish has been substantially limed oftener than once, and has ge-
nerally got as much calcareous earth as it requires, so that at pre-
sent less lime can be used.  Placed at a distance from large towns,
or even considerable villages, the great desideratum has been to
get manure.  For this purpose alluvial earth from the banks of
the Ythan and smaller streams has been taken in great quantities
for forming compost dunghills.  Lately, bone manure has been
inch used.  Given at the rate of 25 to 30 bushels per acre, it has
produced splendid crops of turnips, and thus, by increasing the means
of keeping cattle, has in some degree increased the manure, and
promises to contribute materially to the progressive improvement
of the country.  A mill for bruising bones has been lately erected
by an intelligent farmer in this parish for his own accommodation,


