
     68                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

keepers; a tailors; and 17 weavers.  There are about 52 female
servants in constant service; and other females in the parish are
employed by the day, in field labours, by the principal farmers, when
their services are required, but who, when not so employed, live
either in houses by themselves, or with their parents, occupying
their time in spinning flax or wool, of which they make webs for sale,
and thus contriving to support themselves by their own industry.
  Agriculture.--The improvement in agriculture in this parish,
within the last sixteen years, has been very great, particularly on
the estate of Redcastle, where it is now carried on with great spi-
rit, and in a very substantial manner.  The lands are laid out and
cultivated in the most modern style, and the appearance of the
fields is now very different, indeed, from what it was even twelve
years ago.  There are now many scores of acres yielding wheat and
green crops, which were then useless, without any other cover than
short heath and broom.  Both the herltors are liberal in giving en-
couragement to their tenants in improving waste lands, by allow-
ing them L.5 Sterling for every Scots acre they improve, and
leaving it in their possession during the currency of their lease, with-
out rent.  Nearly the whole arable lands of the estate of Redcastle,
with a considerable part of the waste lands, are in the possession of
six principal farmers or tacksmen.  These farms are now worked by
horses, from two to six pair for each farm.  The three largest of
these farms were formerly occupied by small tenants, each paying a
rent of from L.12 to L.60, L.70 and L.80.  Some twelve or fourteen
of these small tenants occupied among them what is now in the oc-
cupancy of one individual.  These farms have been iaid off with
regular boundaries, and are subdivided into regular fields.  New
steadings of the most complete description, with comfortable dwel-
ling-houses, have either been built, are building, or are about to be
built, on these farms on the Redcastle' property.  Substantial stone
dikes have been built, and are building, around the several sub-
divisions of the farms.  Similar improvements are in progress on
the estate of Kilcoy; and I understand, that both the tenants
and the crofters have got leases of from nineteen to twenty-one
years, I so that when the proposed improvements are completed,
few parishes will present a more highly cultivated appearance than
the parish of Killearnan.  The principal tenants raise heavy crops of
wheat, barley, oats, rye, pease, beans, potatoes, turnips, and clover,
in; great abiwidance., . The returns are various, as the season varies.
If the summer be dry, the returns may be from three to four; but


