
926                    SUPPLEMENT TO THE

bath-days in succession.  A similar arrangement obtained in the
West Kirk of Edinburgh about the same period.  Indeed, in the
latter three successive Sabbaths, and in particular circum
stances, even four, at a later day, were occupied in this service.
This indicated a verv large attendance at the communion.  It
could not be overtaken in one day, and when the care which was
exercised in the admission to the ordinance, to which we shall pre-
sently advert, is taken into account, the result is the more inte-
resting and creditable to the church.  It is the proof of a large body
making a public Christian profession.  The communion, too, seems
to have been celebrated more frequently than once a year.  The
Commendator of Blantyre, who, according tolaw, was required to
provide the elements, objected to furnishing the bread and wine
more frequently than once a year; but his objection was imme-
diately met and overcome.  Several members of session were ap-
pointed to taste the wine, and see that it was of the best quality.
No person was admitted to the lord's table until he had under-
gone a satisfactory examination as to his knowledge and charac-
ter, and there were regular catechetical exercises during the year.
Those who did not attend them, though they had been previous-
ly admitted to the ordinance, were excluded.  Any one presum-
ing to sit down at the Lord's table, who had contravened these,
rules of the church, was to be immediately " raised from the table,
and called before the session, to answer for his absence from his
examinations, and for his presuming to come to the communion."
In this way, the religious knowledge of those who had once been
Admitted was not suffered to languish, but was kept up and in-
creased.  Previous to the dispensation of the Supper, a public
meeting was held of the ministers, elders, deacons, " and the hail
honest men of the town," that if any one had any thing to object
to the doctrine of the ministers, or the life of the other office-
bearers of the church, they might have an opportunity of stating
their objection.  Another end of the meeting was to ascertain
where any grudges or enmities existed among church members,
that tbhre might be a reconciliation " before the ministration of
the memorials of the Supper of the Lord Jesus."  This meet-
ing was held upon the Wednesday; another for preaching was
held upon the Saturday afternoon.  The first indicates a very
simple and primitive state of society, and, in such circumstances,
might often prove very useful.  In the more artificial age in which
we live, a similar procedure might create evils which it was intend-
ed to cure.  While the church was far from being lax in admis-


