
               SCOONIE.                             277

dries to L. 8, 4s. 6d. The remainder was contributed by the he-
ritors according to their valued rents.
   Prisons.--Though much wanted, there is no prison in this pa-
rish, nor even a lock-up-house.
   Fairs.--In former times, there were one fair in spring for lint-
seed, and one every month, from May to October, for white linen.
Merchants attended from distant parts of the country, and linen
cloth to a very considerable amount was annually brought here for
sale. These fairs, however, have now dwindled into petty mar-
kets for toys and sweetmeats; and, as they are often made an oc-
casion, by many of the working-classes, for dissipation and disturb-
ance, they may well be dispensed with.
   Inns, &c.--There are 28 licensed houses for retailing spirits in
the town of Leven, -a number far beyond the wants of the place,
and which has no doubt tended much to demoralize the people.
   Fuel.--The common fuel is coal, from the pits of Wemyss and
Kilmux. A considerable quantity of English coals is annually im-
ported, and is generally used by the wealthier classes.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   With respect to the more striking variations betwixt the present
state of the parish, and that which existed at the time of the last
Statistical Account, I may generally refer to what has been already
stated under the different heads of inquiry; and would advert
merely to the improved state of agriculture, by which the rental of
the parish has been more than trebled; the excellent state of the
turnpike and statute-labour roads; and the great increase in trade
and manufactures. It may be proper, however, to mention also
an improvement in the mode of conducting funerals, which has
tended much to the comfort and convenience of the working class-
es. When the present incumbent came to the parish,, it was cus-
tomary to have at least three services, but often morel-one of spirits
with bread and cheese, and two of wine with cake and biscuit.
This not only occasioned much delay, but entailed a heavy expense
upon poor families, which, at such a season especially, they were
little able to bear. Now the services are altogether discontinued;
the procession, commences precisely at the hour appointed; and it
may be recorded to the credit of the community, that, generally,
they entered most readily into the new arrangement.

December 1836.


