
                                    COMRIE.                                593

  so far as is known, there are no natives of this parish above fifteen
	years of age who cannot read or write.  The people are much alive
  to the benefits of education. With the exception of the parochial
	teacher, the others are in no better circumstances than day,la-
	bourers; and, from inability to support his family, one of them has
	lately exchanged his school for a weaver's loom.  Small endow-
	ments are much needed in two or three districts, especially in
	Glenlednock, where, for want of one, a teacher is engaged by the
  inhabitants only during winter.  The facilities of education have
	not been materially increased since last Statistical Account.
    Libraries.--There is a parochial library at Comrie, containing
	about 500 volumes.  It was commenced in 1822.  The subscription
	is 2s. annually, and the annual proceeds amount to about L. 7.
	There is also a small subscription library at St Fillans; and a small
  circulating library in Comrie. There is no public reading-room,-
	every weaver's shop and farm-house being more or less employed
	for this purpose.  No newspaper is printed in the parish, but a
  sufficient number is sent to it.
    Friendly Societies.- There were three, and are now two, Friendly
	Societies in the parish.  The Friendly Society of Weavers was in-
	stituted in 1805, and dhssolved in 1834.  The capital then was
	L. 270; the members were 200; the widows, 10.  St Fillans High-
  land Society was instituted in 1819; present capital, L. 100; mem-
	bers about 60; widows on fund, 3. The Mason's Society com-
  menced in 1818; capital at present, L. 450; members, 320: wi-
	dows on fund, 16.  This Society is yearly increasing in numbers
	and capital.  Neither of the Friendly Societies has as yet taken the
	benefit of the Lord Advocate's bill for regulating Friendly Socie-
  ties; but means are at present employed to obtain this benefit for
	the Mason's Society.
    S`vings Bank.-A savings bank was established in 1815, by the
	heritors and minister.  It affords an example of the evils of the
	old law now happily repealed, which did not extend to Scot-
	land the same protection anct facilities, as to the English Savings
	Banks.  The funds used at first to be transmitted to Crieff, and
	lodged in the hands of the agent of the Leith Bank in that place.
  In 1823, when the deposits amounted to L. 500, that agent failed,
  The directors expected that the Leith Bank would be responsible
  for the amount, as having been lodged in the hands of their ac-
  knowiedged agent; but the directors of that establishment denied
  that the 'money had ever been entered into their books. In this di-
         PERTH.


