
			BORGUE.                               57

as charitable, yet frugal, cheerful, industrious, and well informed,
according to the stations which they occupy.
	Smuggling, which at one time prevailed to a great extent, is
now extinct. It will be well for us when the same can be
said of poaching, a practice which is at present the source of
grievous injury to the morals of this and several adjoining parishes.
The facilities possessed for transporting game by the steam-packet
which now plies betwixt Liverpool and Kirkcudbright, has tended
to augment this mischief.
	The provincial, if not national, games of quoits and curling are
practised in Borgue with unabated ardour. From an early pe-
riod, the youth of the parish discover something like an innate
relish for the latter of these sports; and it is not until his sinews
have been unstrung by the feebleness of declining life, that the
veteran curler reluctantly forbears to wield his broom. The
friendly parties who visit our rink from neighbouring parishes, we
have reason to believe, uniformly carry home a good report of the
reception they meet with here.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>
			IV.--INDUSTRY
	Agriculture.--
           The number of acres occasionally in tillage is 8500 imperial measure.
                               uncultivated,              4364

                               Total,                   12,864

	It is not considered that any part of what is now uncultivated
could, with advantage, be brought under tillage.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land may be stated at
17s. per acre. That of arable land, at L.1.
	The average rent for grazing is at the rate of L.4, for an ox,
and L.6 for a cow, if straw or coarse hay be given on the field.
Without any fodder, for an ox, L.3; for a cow, L.4, 4s.; for a
sheep, 18s.
	Wages.--To a common labourer in summer, 2s.; in winter,
1s. 6d. An artisan in summer, 3s.; in winter, 2s.
	Live-Stock.--Cattle are almost exclusively of the Galloway
breed, and the greatest attention is paid by the farmers to have
their stock pure, and of the most correct symmetry. The remark
of the former reporter is as applicable as ever, that "the farmers
here are as attentive to the shapes of cattle as a jockey to the
proportions of a horse. Even an eye or an ear is not to be over-
looked." Some of their observations may appear whimsical, but
in general they are certainly well founded, for one of good pro-


