
     of Kildalton.

gerous for strangers to come into, because all of them are sur-
rounded with large rocks, that run along the whole coast, and
in many places jut out into the sea 3 or 4 miles; and some of
them are visible, others not.  When strangers are obliged to
take shelter here from a storm, they should, if possible, get
out some boat from the shore, that they may have some of the
natives of the island to pilot them through these rocks, and to
conduct them into the best ground for anchoring.  The in-
habitants here are very ready to perform this service to all
strangers, if it lies in their power to give them assistance.
There are many other creeks along this coast, into which the
natives run with their small boats; but strangers are in very
great danger, when they venture into any of those creeks, be-
cause many of them are full of sunk rocks.  There is a place
called Dun-Aidh, where a Danish fort was formerly built.
The rock on which this fort-stood is very large, and its height,
from the bottom of the sea, is very extraordinary.  The top
of the rock is now covered with grass; for there is no ap-
pearance of any building now remaining.  The wall, on the
N. side, is nearly covered with earth, and the whole N. side
is fine pasture for sheep.  There is more than an acre of ground
between the top and the N. side of this rock.  There is a deep
valley both on the W. and the E. of this rock; and the
ascent is so very steep on each side, that it is almost impossible
for any man to creep up upon his hands and feet to the
top.  No ordinary gun is supposed to be capable of carrying
a ball from the bottom of this valley to the top of the rock*.

     O o 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is said, that the only way of access up to it was on the very edge of
this great valley; and that there was a cave made here, where a few men were
hid; who, when they saw any person coming near the entry, either killed them
from the cave, or drove them over the precipice, whereby they were dashed
pieces before they reached the bottom of this immense valley.


