
				PERTHSHIRE.

	threads of the warp as va'ay break in the process.  The woof is
	supplied in little pirns or cops, formed on the self-acting mules;
	each loom will, on cloth of ordinary thickness, such as a common
	calico, produce about thirty yards per day, making 60 the work of
	each girl.  These looms, to the number of about 300, are arrang-
	ed in rows, with alleys between, in a most spacious apartment,
	which, when lighted with gas, has a most magnificent effect.
	   "In going over the vast establishment, it seemed to us like en-
	tering an illuminated village, and we shall not soon forget the effect
	of 300 gas lights in one apartment.  This btilding is quite novel
	in it's structure, the roof being composed of groaned are arches, sup-
	ported on cast-iron columns, 12 feet high, and the rise of the
	arches being 6 feet; the greatest height of the ceiling is 18 feet.
	The groins are in squares of 33 feet 6 inches, and in the centre
	of each groin there is a circular opening 8 feet in diameter, sur-
	mounted by a handsome glass cupola light, affording a most uni-
	form and perfect light for the operations carried on below.  The
	arches are, rendered water-tight in' the most simple manner by a
	coating of pitched coal tar, about a quarter of an inch in thick-
	ness, and the whole is covered with three or four feet of soil,
	intended to form a garden for flowers and other plants.  It is re-
	markable, that duriDg the intense frost of the winter 1837-8, the
	hardening did not penetrate more than one and a-half inches into
	this soil--owing, doubtless, to the heat from below.  This building
	covers altogether upwards of half an acre, and every individual in
	the apartment can be seen from any point.  The whole is fire-proof.
	The general order of management at the Deanston Works is very
	much on the principle of Arkwrigbt-a proof of the talents of that
	eminent person.  There is a head or superintendant to each de-
	partment-every one has his own allotted part-and in most bases
	they are paid by the piece, not in weekly wages.  They receive
	the amount of their earnings every Thursday morning (that being
	the market day);  and the youngest individual about the works is
	paid his or her wages into their own hana, which seems to give them
	an idea of personal consequence.  They have all the privilege of
	leaving any moment thev choose, without previous warning; and
	we were informed that this is found to insure a more steady, agree-
	able, and lengthened service than could be obtained by the firmest
	indenture.  There is no fine or punishment, excepting for dam-
	age to the works through evident 'carelessness.  The order of the
	establishment is preserved by the dismissal of offending individuals,





