
1124			ABERDEENSHIRE.

and dounethraw of the kingdome of sathan, then to put tham to
tbe knawledge of ane condigne assize."+ In 1620, William Ga-
rioche, son of James Garioche of Kinstair, and Thomas Anderson
in Awfurd, were tried for "carrying John Bonar, in Tullichietlie,
twa myles to the water of Lochell, and douking him dyverse tymes
thairin, and compelling him to yield to the furnissing of 500
merks money."*  In February 1636, seven of the followers of
Gilderoy, who were "notorious limmers, and did great oppressions
in the lands of Corse, Craigievar, and other parts, were taken in
Athol, by persuasion and advice of the Laird of Craigievar and
Corse, and hanged altogether at the Cross of Edinburgh, and
their heads cut off, and set up in exemplary places." In July
after, their leader, "and five other limmers," shared the same
fate; and on the 8th August 1638, in revenge of Gilderoy's death,
a band of freebooters "came to the Laird of Corse his bounds,
and spulzied the ground, and Mr Thomas Forbes, minister at
Lochell's House, and oppressed the King's lieges grievously, taking
their horse, kine, and oxen, and causing the owners pay for their
own gear." In April 1644, "the Laird of Craigievar takes to
Craigievar, and transports his haill victuals of Fintray to the
place there, to be kept from plundering." In 1745, Harry Lums-
den of Cushnie, George Gordon of Hallhead, and Jonathan For-
bes of Brux, all took the side of Prince Charles. In July 1746,
the Duke of Cumberland granted a lease during pleasure of the
lands of Essilmont and Hallhead, belonging to George Gordon, to
James Chalmers, printer in Aberdeen; and his house in Aberdeen
was plundered by the Duke and General Hawley.++

<FOOTNOTE>Pitcairn, Vol. iii. pp. 489-90.
          Spalding Club Miscellany, Vol. i. Trials for Witchcraft, pp. 83-193.
          It may not be improper to add here the following notices of husbandry and
manners. These are entirely derived from the records of the Barony Court of Crai-
gievar, two volumes of which, extending from 1710 to 1766, are preserved at Fin-
tray House. From 1710 to 1714, the price of a boll of meal was ten merks Scots;
of it boll of bear, L.8: of a boll of corn and straw, seven merks; of an ox, L.18;
and of a horse, twenty-six merks; the harvest fee of a woman, L.4; and of a man,
eight to ten merks. In 1711, the officer was ordered to search out all the men and
women capable of service, who are idle, that they may be obliged to enter to service
immediately; and to summon all in actual service who are taking extravagant fees,
that they and their masters may be punished. The same year, the heritor com-
plaining that the tenants were wasting their lands, in not "gooding" them once in
the three years, it was ordained that none should let the third year pass "ungooding
the third of their harlands yearly; "or if any " pretend that their land would bear
four crops of bear and oats without gooding, then they shall pay at their outgoing
whatever their lands are made worse, or else continue their tacks and pay their
duties, aye and while their respective lands should recover the said loss. In 1723,
anotber complaint was made against certain tenants for taking six crops of their out-
field land, and they were henceforth restricted to five. None but millers were al-
lowed to keep swine, and all were free to kill them if found in their corn o grass;
					3


