
442                     INVERNESS-S-HITLE.

sters the other ordinances of religion.  He is paid L.60 by the
Earl of Seafield, and L.20 by the Committee for the Mangement
of the Royal Bounty. Both churches are, in general, well at-
tended; and the number of communicants in the parish is upwards
of 300. Numerous Sabbath schools, which are remarkably well
attended by both Young and old, are established throughout the
parish. There are no Dissenting chapels of any kind, except a
Baptist meetinghouse in Grantown.
   The manse, which was built in 1834, is a commodious and
handsome house. There are two glebes, one at Cromdale, and
the other at Advie, both of the yearly value of about L.25. The
stipend by the last augmentation in 1819, is 16 chalders, hal-
meal, half barley, with L 8, 6s. 8d. 6communion element
money.
   Education.-The total number of endowed schools in the pa-
rish is six. Of these, four are parochial, each teacher receiving
a salary, L.12, 16s.7d. per annurn, with school fees. The school-
master of Advie, situated in Morayshire, is entitled to a. share of
the Dick Bequest. This rather uncommon number of parochial
schools was deemed necessary, on account of the extent and po-
pulation of the parish. The other two schools are in the village
of Grantown, and both gratuitously supported by the proprietor.
The teacher of the grammar school receives a salary of L.25 a-year,
and the school fees are very considerable, the average number of
scholars during the year being not under 150. The other is an
infant school, established by the late Honourable Mrs Grant of
Grant. The teacher of it, a female, receives a yearly salary of
L.15, with other perquisites.
   There may be some few old people in the parish still, who are
unable to read, but their number is exceedingly small. The
schools are well attended, particularly during the winter months,
and the majority of them are remarkably well taught. The in-
habitants are sensible of the advantages they derive from these
schools; but two or three more are much wanted.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is about 150; and the average sum allotted
to each, per year, according to their necessities, is from 5s. to
L.2. The annual amount of contributions for their relief is
about L.75; of which, about L.55 are collected in the two,
churches, and L.20 are the interest of several sums left as legacies
for the poor. The family of. Grant also give stated supplies of


