
346                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   At the foot of the third and fourth pillars, and between them
and the north wall, there is a large flagstone covering the mouth
of a vault, in which ten barons of Rosslyn were buried before
1690.  It is so remarkably dry, that when the bodies of some
of them were inspected eighty years after their interment, they
were found in a state of perfect preservation.  It was an ancient
custom of this princely house, that all its barons were buried with-
out any coffin in their armour.  Father Hay, alluding to this cus-
tom, observes, "The late Rosslyn, my good father, grandfather
to the present Rosslyn, was the first that was buried in a coffin,
against the sentiments of James VII., who was then in Scotland,
and several other persons, well versed in antiquity, to whom my
mother (Jean Spottiswood, grandniece of Archbishop Spottis-
wood,) would not hearken, thinking it beggarly to be buried after
that manner.  The great expense she was at in burying her hus-
band occasioned the sumptuary acts which were made in the fol-
lowing Parliaments."*
   On the floor, between the fourth and fifth pillars, from the west
end, in the north aisle, there, is a coarse flat stone, having cut upon
it the rough outline of a man in armour, with his hands lifted up
and joined as if engaged in prayer, with a greyhound at his feet,
and a lion rampant in a small shield at each side of his head.
This is supposed to mark the tomb of Sir William St Clair of
Rosslyn, of whom Father Hay relates an interesting adventure.
   Centre Aisle.--The upper part of the centre aisle is lighted by
five arched windows on each side, between which are canopies and
brackets, twelve on the north side, and twelve on the south side,
supposed to be for the Twelve Apostles, and as many saints and
martyrs.  In the east end is a beautiful arched window; and be
low the centre of this window, is a niche of superior size and ele-
gance, supposed to be intended for a statue of the Saviour or the
Virgin.
   South Aisle.--On the north side of the arch, connecting the
second and third columns of the south range, from the west, are
represented the Twelve Apostles, and four of the primitive Mar-
tyrs, bearing the insignia of the deaths they respectively suffered.
On the east side of the south door, is a beautiful font in the wall,
which is much admired.

<FOOTNOTE>To the custom mentioned above, and also to the tradition, that the turrets of the
chapel were supernaturally illumined by flames, upon the death of any member of
the Rosalyn family, Sir Walter Scott alludes, in beautiful verses, in the Lay of the
Last Minstrel.


