
			KINNOULL.			    941

such is the improvement of late years in its culture and manage-
ment, that very few spots remain in which the best systems of hus-
bandry are not practised. The latest improvement introduced is
that of tile-draining.

<TABLE>
        Number of imperial acres in the parish,            3700
	Of which, arable and pasture lands,                3100
	Under  wood,                                        580
	Undivided common,                                    20
                                                       ____ 3700
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of land may be stated to be
from L.2, 5s. to L.2, 10s. per acre; but in the central part of the
parish, i. e. in the immediate neigbuorhood of Perth, from L.5
to L.10 per acre is readily paid; and along the bank of the river,
grounds for villas have of late years been sold at no less a rate
than L.1000 per acre.
   Rental of the Parish.--The old valued rent of the parish is
L.4775,18s. 6d.
   The real rental, as made up in 1823, and by which tbe assess-
ment for building a new church was regulated, was declared to be
L.12,303; but the rents both of lands and houses having since
considerably fallen, perhaps L.10,000 should be now substituted.
In this sum, the rent of the salmon-fishings in the parish is, in-
cluded.
   Nurserhes.--So far back as the year 1767, a nursery was form-
ed here, on the east bank of the Tay, by Mr Dickson of Hassen-
deanburn, in Roxburghshire. He was soon thereafter succeeded
by his brother, Mr William Dickson, who, for the long period of
sixty-three years, continued to conduct this extensive establish-
ment in a spirit of enterprize and improvement, and with a good
taste, which not only made his professional name well known
throughout the island, but insured him a wide field of demand
for those endless varieties of nature's productions which he was so
successful in rearing. Since his death in 1835, its various de-
partments have been conducted in the same spirit, and even on a
more enlarged scale, under the direction of his nephew, who had
for many years taken an active part in its management. These
grounds now extend to not less than 60 acres: and from their lie,
their natural and artificial shelter, and the variety of soils which
they contain, it is difficult to conceive a situation more adapted,
whether by nature or art, for every possible purpose to which such
establishments are sought to be appropriated. Its giving employ-
ment to between 70 and 80 individuals, may be mentioned as not


