
466                        LANARKSHIRE.

1 firlot, 4 4/6 peck of bear, and L.14, 8s. 1d. paid by the heritors, and
L.96, 3s. 4d. by the Exchequer. No dissenting place of worship
in the parish. Number of persons of all ages belonging to the
Established church, 717: do. to other denominations, 513; do. at-
tending Established Church, 360; do. attending dissenting places
of worship, 316; commuinicants in Established Church, 175.
Established Church in summer well attended, not so well in win-
ter, owing to its being one of the coldest perhaps in Scotland.
There are occasional collections for religious purposes.
	Education.--There are three schools in the parish, one paro-
chial, and the schoolmaster has the maximum salary, with rather
mom than the legal allowance of land as a garden. Fees from
scholars about L.20. He is required to teach Latin, Greek, En-
glish grammar, English writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, and
practical mathematics. The other two schools are supported by
the school fees; one of the teachers has a schoolhouse rent free,
and about L.40 a year from fees; and in the other school, taught
by a woman, sewing as well as reading is taught. The school fees
are, for English, 2s. 6d.; for English grammar and writing, 3s.;
arithmetic and book-keeping, 4s; Latin, 5s. About, on an ave-
rage, 145 children attend these schools, 30 of which attend the
one taught by a woman. The children of the parish are all taught
to read, and a good many to write. The people in general are
alive to the advantages of education.
	Societies, &c.--There is a funeral society for the parish and neigh-
bourhood; it was instituted in 1827, to aid persons in defraying the
expenses occasioned by the death of any member of the family.
The entry money is allowed to accumulate as stock. L.3 Sterling
are given for funeral charges, on the death of any member of the
society; for children five years and, under, L.1; and above that age,
at the rate of 1s. 6d. every succeeding year till they reach eighteen,
--when they must either become a member, or forfeit all right to the
benefit of the society. The entry money for unmarried persons, male
or female, is 1s.; for a husband or wife, with or without children,
a widower or widow having children, 2s. The allowance exigible
is paid by the members proportionally. The regulations of the
society are conform to the Friendly Society Act, IO Geo. IV. cap.
56, and have been regularly sanctioned. There is no other friend-
ly society reaularly constituted; but for eight years past, a number
of person have been in the practice of aiding one another, when
unable to work, by a contribution of one penny a week from each


