                            AVOCH.                          391

in council, liberal and generous, devout and charitable, stout,
hardy, and of great courage," sinking under the weight of age,
and worn out by the constant fatigues of war, retired to his castle
at Avoch, in Ross, where he soon after died. Winton states, that
he was buried at Rosemarkie, about the year 1338. Subsequent-
ly the castle passed into the hands of the Earls of Ross; and on
the forfeiture of the earldom in 1455, we find among the castles
then annexed to the patrimony of the Crown, mention made of the
House of Innerness and Urquhard on Loch Ness, and of "An-
nache (Avoch,) Edderdail, callyt Ardmanache." And this annexa-
tion in the time of James II. was repeated and confirmed by the
whole Parliament on the Ist July 1476, in favour of James Ill.,
who afterwards, on the 29th January 1487, created his second son
Duke of Ross, Marquis of Ormond, and Earl of Edirdal, otherwise
called Ardmanache; from which period the lordship of Ardmana-
che, or the Black Isle, was generally considered as part of the patri-
mony of the King's second son. (See the Acts of the Parliament
of Scotland, Thomson's folio edition, Vol. ii. pp. 42, 113, and 181.)
  In the annexation in 1455, Redcastle, with the lordship of Ross
pertaining thereto, is also particularly mentioned.
  Thus the origin of the term Ormond's Mount, as applied to the
site in question, admits of easy explanation; that of "the Lady
Hill" probably results from local tradition having confounded this
site with that of some religious edifice. Like the Cathedral of
Fortrose, and many other buildings along the margin of the Mo-
ray Frith, the Castle of Avoch was most likely razed to the ground
by the soldiers of Oliver Cromwell, and the stones of it transport-
ed to form part of his great citadel or fort at Innerness.
  Of the fortalice or tower of Arkindeith but the lower or dun-
geon story remains. It is situated close by the farm-house of that
name, on thd hill side, a little way above the offices of Avoch. It
evidently belongdd to a castlellated mansion of no great antiquity,
erected, perhaps, by some of the clergy, who are known to have
lands; or by some of the Bruces of Kinloss, a family who are spe-
cially mentioned in the printed retours for the seventeenth, cent-
tury, (1611-18,) as having held the lands of "Muireal-house and
Arkindeuch."*
                         III.-POPULATION.
   The amount of the population of this parish in 1831 was 1936

<FOOTNOTE AVOCH>
* In the departments of Geology and Antiquities, Mr Gibson begs to acknowledge
his great obligations to George Anderson, Esq., Solicitor, Inverness.


