
                        NEW CUMNOCK.                          519

	Rent.--The average rent for the grazing of an ox or cow is from
L. 3 to L. 4 ; for a ewe or full-grown sheep, 3s. 6d.
	Produce.--Tbe annual average amount of raw produce as near-
ly as can be ascertained, is exhibited in the following table:--

<TABLE>

                Oats, barley, and wheat,      L. 11660  0 0
          Potatoes and turnips,                   2701  0 0
          H ay, natural and cultivated,           3491  0 0
          Wood, thinnings and felled trees,         45  0 0
          Coals, lime, freestone, and lead,       2940  0 0
          Average value of wool and skins,        2500  0 0
          Butter, cheese, and eggs,               7536  0 0
                                               ____________
                                  Total value, L.30873  0 0
	A large amount of waste land has been reclaimed, within the
last fifteen or twenty years. During the same period, the system
of draining has been extensively adopted, and has contributed much
both to the fertility of the land and salubrity of the climate. The
system of irrigation has been acted upon on a large scale by Sir
Charles Menteath, of Closeburn and Mansfield; and the success
attending this mode of improvement has been fully attested by the
splendid crops raised on his lands along the banks of the Nith.
	By paring and burning the surface during the summer of the
first year, ploughing the land in the autumn, laying lime upon the
land so ploughed to the amount of 200 imperial bushels in the
next spring, and sowing out the land with grass seeds, Yorkshire
fog, at the rate of five bushels to the Scotch acre, in the month of
July, this mode of improvement of dry moor-land with a sandy
subsoil has been successfull practised upon the estate of Close,-
burn, in Dumfries,shire, and no heather appears after the lapse of
twenty years. Though this mode has been employed upon dry moors
with an open subsoil by Sir C. G. S. Menteath, he does not recom-
mend the practice for the cold subsoiled moors of Ayrshire, as
rushes are sure to follow the ploughing of these moors, which
renders it necessary again to plough them, after being laid down
to grass, for three or four years, in order to kill the rushes. Lime
to the amount of 400 bushels per acre upon the surface, with open
sheep drains, to remain in pasture, will be found a more profitable
improvement.
	W. Hyslop, Esq. of Bank and Blackcraig, also deserves ho-
nourable notice as a spirited enterprising agriculturist. In Octo-
ber last, he received the premium for the best managed farm in
the districtof Kyle.
	Leases.-- The leases vary from fifteen to nineteen years, and
bind the farmers to the most improved method of husbandry. They


