
DUNING.        363

hand in the withdrawal ; and they are determined to retain
Kingsmuir as part of Dunino parish, which, in case of a new aug-
inentatiori, has funds to benefit the church living, at least I,. 60
a-year.
Parochial Registers.-When the restoration of Presbyterian go-
verdment was ratified by Parliament in 1641, parochial registers
were recommended to be kept. From April 30, 1643, in a re-
gular series to the present period, there are eight volumes of pa-
rochial records in tolerable preservation. There is'a'register of
deaths since the year 1752. For many years after 164,% near-
ly the whole heritors and principal tacksmen were elders,-an ex-
ample worthy of imitation at the present day. The office of the
elders was no sinecure, nor were they shy of using their authority.
It appears that they were not only the protectors of good uiiorals,
but assumed a civil and criminal jurisdiction. In 1660, two men
and four women were convicted on their own confession, of
"promiscuous dancing," that is, of dancing together at a mar-
riage. They escaped with be;.ng 11 sharplie rebuked ;" but the
poor piper John Moore, from the next parish of	Carnbie," who
acted as minstrel on that occasion, was obliged	to put his hand
to the pen," not to repeat the offence, "under a penalty toties quo-
ties," which would now be equivalent to a couple of pounds Sterling.
Moreover, on the following Sunday, "he was humbled on his knees
before the pulpit in face of the congregation," in public penance for
his conduct. In 1649, "Alexander Brune was put into thejogqs
from the second bell to the last bell before sermon on forenoone,
and afterwards entered on the place of repentance for the sin of un-
cleanness with Elpeth Berown." Though it be stated in the re-
cord, that during the above period, the Presbytery oii several oc-
casions issued their pastoral admonitions against prevailing vices,'
yet delinquencies were frequently brought before the kirk-session,
which would be deprecated in these latter and less zealous days.
Weavers are sometimes cited for carrying home their webs to their
customers on Sundays, and millers are cited for grinding corn, and
reapers for cutting down corn on that holy day. In 1652,- the
kirk-session of Dunino not only acted as civil and criminal judges,
but were patrons of the parish, and settled the minister. Thusi-
May 30tb of that year, it is stated in the record, "that after the
afternoon's exercise, the minister intimated out of the pulpit to the
people, that the elders had nominate and chosen unanimously, Mr
Alexander Edward, Regent in the Old Colledge, to be minister of


