
                           MORVERN.                           179

father's cave, there to present the food which he had thus provid-
ed for his sustenance.  On parting, however, he gave directions
as to a suitable place of muster, and commanded that a great, and,
as the clansmen supposed, a very unnecessary number of fires
should be lighted, during the following night, around their encamp-
ment, adding that he would speedily he at his post.  He kept his
word, and at once assumed the command for which his skill and
valour rendered him so well qualified.
   On surveying, as accurately as he could, the host of the invad-
ers, Somerled at once perceived the inadequacy of his own force
in numerical strength, and with prompt decision had recourse to
the following stratagem: A herd of cattle lay quietly pasturing in
the adjoining valley, collected there no doubt to insure their safe-
ty.  The cattle he ordered to be slain, and, having made this
strange preparation, he waited the advance of the enemy.  The
commanding position occupied by him enabled him to observe
their movements and, as soon as he saw a portion of them in mo-
tion, he caused his small force to march several successive times
round the eminence, descending at each circuit into a small glen
underneath, which appeared to the foe to lead towards the shore,
but from which, unseen, the advanced portion regained the sum-
mit as the others were descending from it, thus exhibiting the ap-
pearance of a continuous force.  After a short interval, he caused
every man to equip himself with a cow's hide, again practising the
former movement, and then giving his force a yet more formidable
appearance, caused them to reverse their savage looking " uni-
form."  The stratagem succeeded.  The Norsemen, supposing
that a large and formidable force was descending upon them, fell
into great confusion, while Somerled and his gallant associates,
availing themselves of this sudden panic, fell on the more advan-
ced body with great slaughter.  Two of the leaders, Borradill
and Lundy, were slain in adjoining corries, which still bear their
names, and another, Stangadill, was so closely pursued, that to es-
cape the sword he leaped into a boiling linn, which, in comme-
moration of the event, is still known as Eass Stangadill.  This
achievement, sufficient of itself to inspire the M'lnneses with con-
fidence in their leader, was soon followed up by others of a similar
description.  Somerled in a short time succeeded in expelling the
marauding Norsemen from Morverrn, and thus at length the hum-
ble occupant of the cave became the powerful Tharte of Argyle.
Morvern, thus recovered by Somerled, continued to form part of his


