
     of Grange.

often desolated and depopulated their estates, the posses-
sions of the clergy flourished; the oppressed often fled to
the church for protection, and took refuge under the wings
of the clergy, whose spiritual and temporal power was
long very great.  Strath Isla was soon well cultivated, and
well peopled, under the Abbots of Kinloss, who had great
estates, and were very rich and powerful.  They frequent-
ly lived at their castle of Grange, in great splendour and
hospitality, and kept a certain number of monks there,
to manage their estates, and cultivate their domestic farm;
they erected mills upon Isla for grinding corn, and bound
their tenants to bring their whole crop to these mills; be-
cause they here levied the tithe of corn, which, since the
Reformation, has been exacted under the denomination of
that oppressive servitude called multures, afterward to be
taken notice of.  Upon the first appearance of the Refor-
mation in this kingdom, the then Abbot, whose name was
Robert Robison, foreseeing the approaching troubles, be-

<FOOTNOTE>

distant from Cullen; and there, are several trenches or encampments,
supposed to be made by the Scots, upon the haughs of Isla, with the de-
tensive side thrown up towards the coast.  Two of the fields of battle
are clearly to be seen, being covered with cairns of stones, under which
they used to bury the slain.  One of these fields is on the N. side of the
Gallow-hill, not far from the encampments above mentioned; and the
other is on the S. side of Knockhill, to which there leads a road, from
the encampments, over the hill of Silliearn, called to this day, 'The
Howmens Road' Auchinhove, which lies near the banks of Isla, has
been another field of battle; and in a line with it, towards Cullen, upon
the head of the burn of Altmore, some pieces of armour were said to
have been dug up several years ago, but were not preserved; and in the
same line, towards the coast, upon the top of the hill of Altmore, there
is a cairn, called The King's Cairn, where probably the Danish King or
General was slain in the pursuit.  There are no other antiquities in this
parish but The Abbot's Castle, already mentioned; of which there now
remains nothing but a heap of rubbish; being entirely destroyed for the
sake of the stones, which are very scarce in this corner, for building houses.


