
                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

improved, in consequence -of croming (as it is termed) from the
old black-faced stock to the Cheviot,-which has been attended
with the happiest results, as sheep from this parish and neighbour-
hood, generally fetch the first prices, at the southern markets.
  Along the north-east shore of Lochlong, there are two fishing
villages, Dornie and Bundalloch. They are densely peopled;
but, with the exception of Dornie, where there are a few good
houses, there is nothing which merits any special notice about them.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  There is no rnarket of any kind established in the parish,
the nearest market-towns being Dingwall and Inverness; but, the
greater part of the year, steam-boats plying from Glasgow to Skye,
and passing through the inner sounds of Kyles Ehea and Achin,
afford the greatest convenience to the country; and almost all the re-
spectable inhabitants are provided, in this manner, with all the ar-
ticles of home consumption.
  There is no post-office in the parish; but mails are received and
dispatched, three times a-week, in the adjoining parish of Lochalsh '
from which, as often, letters are forwarded by post-runners to
Kintail, GleDsheil, and Glenelg. A Parliamentary road passes
through the parish, is annually repaired, and kept in admirable
order.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is as conveniently si-
tuate for the majority of the parishioners, as it well could be. It is
built at the eastern inhabited extremity of the parish' within the
easy reach of a dozen fainilies,-while the great body of the con-
grezation are from three to six miles distant. Notwithstanding
such a manifest inconvenience, the church i's well attended. It is
by no means large enough for the congregation. It is seated only
for 290 souls; and there are no seat rents paid. There is no re-
cord of the period at which it was built. It was partially roofed
anew, and otherwise repaired, some years ago. There are now,
however, manifest appearances of decay about the roof and galle-
ries; and it is fondly hoped, another repair will not be attempted,
Wt that a new parish chumh will 6e erected in a more centrical
situation, Tho manse was built in 1830-31, and is commodioug.
The grebe is somewhat extonsive but, from the rugged, rock
nature of the grouxid, is far from being' valuable. The amount
of stipend depends a good-deal on the fiar prices, and for many
years has not exce,&ded L. 170 per annum. There are no Chapets
of Ease in the parish, nor Government ministem nor Missionaries.


