
                PARISH OF CALLANDER.

     PRESBYTERY OF DUNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

             THE REV.  P. ROBERTSON, MINISTER.
                                   
             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-CALLANDER is generally supposed to be derived from
   the Gaelic names Calladh, signifying a ferry, and sraid, the way
   leadingto the ferry, by which is meant the ferry across the river
   Teath, a little below the place where the present bridge stands.
      Extent, &c.-From east to west, the parish extends about 18
   miles.  In many places, it is very narrow, varying from one to six
   miles.  A range of the Grampian mountains bounds the parish on
   the north and north-west.
   Topographical Appearances.-The most conspicuous mountain
   is Benledi, contracted for Beinn-le-Dia, the hill of God.  This
   name was probably given to the mountain by the Druids, who had
   a temple on the summit of it, where the inhabitants in the vicinity
   assembled for devotion once a-year, and it is said that this meeting
   continued three days.  The height of Benledi is 2863 feet above
   the level of the sea.  The view from the summit is very fine. To
   the east is seen the Frith of Forth as far as the eye can reach ; to-
   wards the soutb, the Frith of Clyde and the bills of Arran; and to
   the north and west is a splendid view of the Grampians, one rising
   higher than another.  Benledi stands about two miles west of Cal-
   lander, and adds much to the beauty and grandeur of the surround-
   ing scenery.  The next mountain to be noticed, is Stuic-a-chroin
   which in the east is seen between Benledi and Benvorlich, and makes
   a respectable appearance among the Grampians; it is 3171 feet
   above the level of the sea.  Uamhmhor, from the Gaelic words
   uamh signifying a cave, and mor or mhor great, maybe mentioned
   also among our higher hills.  Tradition says, that in the cave of this
   pile banditti took up their residence, and plundered the neighbour-                                                                                  invited
   hood, until in self-defence the tenants were obliged to rise in arms
   and extirpate them.  Such practices were very common in the High-
   lands, in those feudal times when the law was set at defiance. We


