
     of Mains.

   Church, School, Poor, etc.-The King is patron of the
living of Mains.  The stipend is worth about L. 90.  The
church seems originally to have been a Roman Catholic
chapel, as the fount is yet to be seen, and a small
press in the wall, with an iron door, in which perhaps
were deposited some of their sacred relics.  It is very an-
cient, and, though it lately received some repairs, is still
in a ruinous condition.  The manse* was built in 1760.
and, though not a large house, is very sufficient and com-
modious.  The poor are all maintained in thier own hou-
ses; their funds arise from the collections on Sabbath,
which may be about L. 10 per annumn, from the produce

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is an old castle near the manse of great antiquity.  It was
built in the year 1311, but by whom is uncertain for a great se-
vices of years, the property and residence of the Grahams of Fintry.  The
buildigs are in the form of a square, with a strong tower in the front.
There is only one principal gate, which is towards the west.  It has a good
deal of out-works, and seems to have been a place of considerable strength.
Tradition relates, that during the seudal system, its proprietors maintain-
ed almost a constant war with the family of Powrie, another strong hold
in the neighbouring parish.  Above the principal gate there is a passage,
which seems to have been designed for the inhabitants to pour down boil-
ing water, or stones, or any other offensive materials, upon their affailants
when they attempted to force it.  This old castle stands upon a pretty
steep bank of a small rivulet, which separates it from the minister's garden.
It is surrounded with very high trees, which, when covered with foliage,
almost conceal it; and the chimney heads appearing over their tops, with
here and there a peep of the old ruins, have a very pictureque appearance
from the windows of the manse.  The foundations of the old castle, one
of the proprietors of which (viz. Claverhouse) distinguished himself in
persecuting the Presbyterians, under Charles II. were lately dup up by a
farmer.  There appeard to have been a Popish chapel belonging to the
house, as the sount, alter piece, etc. were discovered.  There are in the
church yard two stone coffins, of about two and a half feet deep, which
consist of four large stones, secured at the corners with bars of iron.  Tra-
dition relates, that the plague once raged in this parish, and that the bo-
dies of some fo the unhappy sufferers were tehre inclosed.


