
             	   PARISH OF BALDERNOCK.

           PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

         THE REV. JOHN POLLOCK, MINISTER. *


         I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, &c.--THE name is obviously of Celtic origin, and is sup-
posed to be a corruption of Baldruinick, signifying Druid's-town,--a
supposition which some Druidical remains in the parish render high-
ly probable. History, so far back as the thirteenth century, men-
tions the Galbraiths of Bathbernock, a barony in the neighbour-
hood, and seemingly a corruption of the original name; which fa,
mily, ending in an heiress, the estate, about the beginning of the
fourteenth century, passed by marriage to David, son of Lord Ha-
milton, and ancestor of the late Dr Francis Hamilton. Since that
time, the proprietors have taken the title of Bardowie, from their
residence in the parish. When the name Baldernock was given,
is uncertain; but the original boundaries were very small, till the
year 1649, when the eastern half of the parish, disjoined from
Campsie, was annexed quoad sacra to Baldernock. The greatest
length of the parish is four miles; breadth, three miles.
  Boundaries, &c.--In shape, it is a very irregular, three-sided
figure; bounded on the west side, by East Kilpatrick and Strath-
blane; on the south, by the rivers Allander and Kelvin, which,
here running in different directions, the former east, the latter
west, meet and blend on the lower part of the southern border of
the parish, separating it from Cadder. On the side fronting north
and east, it is bounded by Campsie. Few parishes exhibit a surface
or soil so exceedingly diversified. It consists of three very diffe-
rent stages, rising from the river Kelvin on the south towards Camp-
sie; north, tapering at the east; and widening towards the west.
The first stage contains 700 or 800 acres of rich flat dark-brown
loam, seemingly a deposition of vegetable mould from the higher
ground, and running alongside of the Kelvin. These grounds are

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. D. MacIntyre, A. M. Parochial Teacher, during the in-
eumbency of the late Mr McEwen.


