
			    EDZELL.                       625

  Communincants for several years, 490; in 1842, 590.
  There are nine or ten families Scots Episcopalians, with about
28 or 30 individuals.  There is one Roman Catholic family.
  The manse was built forty years ago, and the offices thirty years
ago, and both are in good repair.
  The stipend is L.129, 6s. 9d. paid by heritors, and the teinds
being exhausted, L.17, 0s. 6d. by Act of Parliament; also 8 bolls,
3 firlots, 3 lippies of meal, and 5 bolls, 2 firlots, 1 peck, 3 lippies
bear, which added together (exclusive of L. 8, 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements) amounts to L.150. Glebe about ten and a-half
imperial acres of indifferent land.
  There is also a piece of moor given about fifty-two years ago
to the minister in property, in exchange for a servitude for turf,
of which the present incumbent has reclaimed about seven acres,
by ploughing, draining, and inclosing.
  Education.-The parish school at the village of Edzell is well
attended, and the intellectual system has been pursued in it for the
last ten years.  The schoolmaster has the maximum salary, L.34,
4s, 4 1/2d. and a very commodious school and shoolmaster's house
were erected in 1841.  The fees are moderate, and may amount
to L.24: the session clerkship yields him L.4.  There has also
been built in the part of the parish in Kincardineshire, a new
school and school-house by John Gladstone, Esq. of Fasque, to
which is attached a small endowment of L. 10, which, together
with the school-fees, may make an income to the teacher of about
L.24 per annum.  There is also another school at Killock, six
miles from the parish school, taught upon the teacher's own ad-
venture, and pretty well attended, especially during winter.
  Religious instruction is well attended to in all the schools, and
the parish teacher has taught a Sabbath evening school for the
last two years, which is often thronged, and in which the present
minister gives his assistance.
  Markets.-Tbere are three in the year: one in August, long
established, now on the wane; two established some years since
by Lord Panmure, for sheep and cattle, the one on first Monday
of May, the other in October. Both these are growing in accept-
tance with the public, the times being favourable and the site
convenient.
  Salmon-fishing.-There is one, the highest on the North Esk,
rent formerly about L.50 or, L.60, when both cruives and nets were
employed. It is now unlet, but much resorted to by rod-fishery.


