
			RUTHVEN.                              417

Roman Catholics are chiefly Irish, and are solely employed at the
mills. Some of them attend the Established Church; and they
are always happy to see the clergyman of the parish in their houses,
whether he is led there in the time of family distress, or in the
course of his parochial visitations.
	There are two brothers deaf and dumb. The oldest person in
the parish was born in the ear 1746.

<TABLE>
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--
	     The number of imperial acres arable is,                1336
                                               pasture,               176
                                              wood,                   452
                                              water, roads, &c.        70
                                   Total number of imperial acres,   2034

	The soil being in general a light loam, on a gravelly bottom,
is well adapted for sheep and turnip husbandry, and its value
has been much increased of late years by the introduction of bone
manure. Much of this manure is now used, and is found to suc-
ceed admirably well. Excellent crops of turnip are thus raised,
more or less of which, in proportion to the weight of the crop, are
carried to the farm-yard, the remainder are eaten off the ground
with sheep. About 20 bushels of bone-dust are allowed for an
acre; and no small advantage resulting from the introduction of
this manure is its superseding to a great extent the use of marl;--
by the too frequent and injudicious application of which, much of
the ground in this neighbourhood has been materially injured.
After the turnip crop, barley is generally sown, for which grain
the soil is well adapted. There is very little wheat sown in the
parish. The usual rotation of crops is, two years grass, oats, green
crop, including potatoes and turnips; barley, sown out with grass.

	The general duration of leases is for nineteen years. The
farm-steadings are mostly new, and in good condition. Great en-
couragement to enclosing and draining has been afforded by the
landlord.

	From an old document, it appears that the rental of the parish
in 1742 was L.230. When the last Statistical report was publish-
ed, it was L.630. It is now about L.1500. This is exclusive of wood,
the annual value of which, taking an average of the last thirty
years, is about L.200. The last four buttings of the oak copse
brought the following prices respectively, L.300, L.600, L.1270
and L.84o.
	Manufactures.--In the former Statistical Account, this parish


