
330                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

monarch, he withdrew to the Castle of Tantallan, and there for a
time defied the hostile force of the kingdom. The King appeared
before it in person in September 1528, and attempted its reduction,
but without avail. At length, however, Angus was compelled to
flee to England; and the castle, by a compromise with Panango, the
governor, on the 4th December, was surrendered to the royal forces.
Tantallan and all the other castles and estates of the Earl were
forfeited to the Crown. In 1537, the King personally visited Tantal-
lan to ascertain its capabilities of defence. On the King's death the
Earl obtained permission to return from his long exile; his restora-
tion to the possession of his castles and manors took place in 1542,
and he made Tantallan stronger than ever. He is stated to have died
at Tantallan about 1557. But this mighty stronghold fell before
the fervid zeal and tremendous energies of the Covenanters. The
Marquis of Douglas had favoured the designs of Charles I., and
his castle was besieged, captured, and garrisoned by the Covenan-
ters, against the King, in 1639. It is stated as having been finally
defended against Oliver Cromwell, and taken after a short siege.
In the beginning of the eighteenth century, the castle and lands
were sold by the Marquis, afterwards Duke of Douglas, to Lord
President Dalrymple, when the castle, till then habitable, was dis-
mantled, and left to decay.
   The Bass.-Facing Tantallan Castle on the north, in the mouth
of the Frith, about a mile and a-half from the shore, stands the im-
mense rugged circular rock called the Bass. It is fully a mile in
circumference. It rises 420 feet above the surface of the sea, and
from the fathomed depth of the waters around, it may be estimated
about 600 feet in total height. On the north, it is peculiarly lofty
and precipitous, and stupendously overawing. On the south, it is
somewhat conical in form, sloping moderately down nearly to the
base. It has been fancifully stated to resemble in this aspect the
spoon and knife and fork-box, such as used to grace our family
sideboards. * Its superficies is guessed at seven acres. A cavern-
ed passage penetrates through the rock from north-west to south-
east, where the rock grandly projects, perhaps, forty feet. The ca-
vern is passable even at full-tide, if the sea be calm. The Bass is
inaccessible save on one flat shelvy point to the south-east; the
south and the north side of this point are the only two landing-
places. Commanding this point, is a small fortalice at the extremi-
ty of the curtain. At one time, the fortification could be reached

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Chambers' Gazetteer of Scotland.


