
142                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.


siderably larger than the one above noticed, it is of the same fi-
gure, and probably was used for the same purpose, that of an altar.
It has no inscription, nor any figure upon it. But it has a hole
in it; and tradition says, that this hole received the standard of
Robert the Bruce, then Earl of Carrick, who here assembled his
army before marching to the field of Bannockburn, 24th June
1314, which decided the independence of Scotland. Supposing
this to have been the place appointed for the rendezvous of the
army, in a military point of view, Bruce seems to have made a ju-
dicious selection. On the north, he had the Dullatur Bog, then
a loch or impassable morass; so that, in case of an attack, he had
only to defend the narrow defile at.the Castlecary on the east, or
the narrow valley through the Balloch Bog on the west or south-
west; while, in case of need, he secured for himself a safe retreat,
either upon the River Avon and Bathgate to the south-east, or
upon the Water of Luggie and the Clyde to the south. This ac-
count, it is said, is to be found in some of our early historians.
  It has already been observed, that the Forth and Clyde Canal
traverses the whole length of the parish on the north. And in its
formation, through the Bog of Dullatur, swords, pistols, &c. the
bodies of men and horses were found in it, and what seems some-
what marvellous, a trooper, completely armed and seated on
the horse, in the exact posture in which he had perished. This
bog lay directly south of the field of the battle of Kilsyth, between
the gallant Marquis of Montrose, and General Baillie, 15th August
1645; and it is supposed, that these were some of Baillie's men
who, in their haste to escape, being either ignorant of the ground,
or hard pressed by their enemies, had rode into the bog and there
perished.
  A Roman road, leading, from the south to the camp at Castlecary,
may be partially seen in the moss of Fannyside; and in the same moss,
the inhabitants direct the stranger's view to certain hollows, or hags,
as having been places of temporary concealment for the Covenan-
ters, or persecuted remnant during the time of Charles II. and
his brother James.
   Near the house of Cumbernauld, there is an eminence called the
Towe Hill, where in the olden time, the feudal Baron held his
court. The, gallows-knowe, it is well known was always near the
Mote Hill, alias Court Hall of those times; and we are inclined
to suppose from the name, that the Towe Hill might be the place
where the Baron's sentence was carried into speedy execution.


