
		        DALKEITH.                          467

Dalkeith, the 7th of April 1351, which charter was confirmed at
Drummellyer, the 14th December 1366.*  On his decease lie left
one daughter, Mary, who died without issue before the year 1369.
This is indicated by a charter+ from William, first, Earl of Dou-
glas, dated Edinburgh, 6th April 1369, who, in presence of King
David II (1329-1371), and several of his nobles, resigned to the
late Mary de Douglas, daughter and heir of the late William de
Douglas, all the lands to which he had any title in the barony of
Dalkeith. He was buried before St Bridget's Altar, in the mo-
nastery of Melrose.++
   It was probably between the years 1360 and 1363 that the
celebrated Froissart visited Scotland. As there seems to be some
inaccuracy in his statements in reference to Dalkeith, we shall
best ascertain the truth by comparing his account with the history
of the families of Douglas. In describing the battle of Otter-
burne, (1388), in which James, second Earl of Douglas, was
slain, he says, "In my youth, I, the author of this history, tra-
velled through all Scotland, and was full fifteen days resident with
William, Earl of Douglas, father of Earl James, at his Castle of
Dalkeith, five miles distant from Edinburgh. Earl James was
then very young, but a promising youth, and he had a sister
called (Isabella)." At the battle of Otterburne, he makes Earl
James exclaim, on having taken Percy's pennon, "This I shall
carry as a sign of my prowess to Scotland, and shall place it on a
pinnacle of my Castle of Dalkeith to be seen by all."  He says
further, "of this James, Earl of Douglas, there was no issue,
nor do I know who succeeded to the estate of Douglas; * * *
but there were one of the name of Douglas; for I knew five
handsome brothers, squires, of this name, at the Court of King

<FOOTNOTE>Regist. Magin. Sigill., page 52, 156.
     Ibid. p. 65, 214.
     Mortons Monastic Annals of Teviotdale, 4to, 1832 page 272.
     Froissart was born about the year 1333. He was in England between 1360
and 1363, during part of which time he travelled through Scotland. His work ex-
tends to the year 1399, and he probably died about the year 1400. When in Scot-
land, he might be from twenty-seven to thirty years of age.-Bayle's Dictionnaire
Historique, &c. article Froissart. See also Life of Froissart, prefixed to Johnes'
Translation.
     Earl James was probably born about the year 1348, and, consequently, when
Froissart saw him, he might be about twelve or thirteen years of age. He fell at
the battle of Otterbume, in the year 1388, at the age of forty.
    "le reporteray tant de vostre prouesse en Escoce, et le mettray sur mon Chastel
d'Alquest, pourquoy on le verra de plus loing.-Par Dieu, Compte de Douglas, re-
spondit Messire Henry, vous ne le' vuilderez ia de Northombellande." Page 304.
Le tiers volume. Hestoire et Chronique Memorable) de Messiri Jehan Froissart.
A Paris, MDLXXIIII.


