
                        DIRLETON.                              213

   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest, entry in these is
1656. They consist of three volumes, in very good order, which
is due to the care of Mr Henderson, the present parochial teacher,
who found them in great concision. They have been regularly
kept, with the exception of a blank of above thirty years, from
1681 to 1713.
                         III.-POPULATION.
   In the old document already referred to the number of com-
municants above sixteen years of age, is said to be "never below
800, never above 900."  This is nearly the double of the present num-
ber, and seems to intimate a very great diminution of the popula-
tion since that period. What that diminution, however, is, it is
impossible to ascertain, as the number of communicants, is mate-
rially affected by the religious state of the people, and by other
circumstances besides the amount of the population. *
   In the year 1755, according to Dr Webster, the population of
this parish was 1700. In this, however, there is obviously some
mistake, for in the Statistical Account of 1792, it is stated, that
to great alteration had taken place in the number of inhabi-
tants for fifty years previous to that date, at which time the popu-
lation was only 1200. Since that period, however, it has material-
ly increased; for according to the census of this year, made by
myself in visiting the parish, it is 1431. As there has been no
introduction of manufactures or public works to account for this
difference, it must be ascribed to the improvements in agriculture,
requiring a corresponding increase of labourers. The population
resides principally in four villages. The average number of mar-
riages is 12; births, 32. Of the deaths no account of sufficient ac-
curacy is kept, to warrant a statement of them. The number of
proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards.
is 13.
   Character of the People.-The peasantry are in general indus-
trious, moral, and exemplary in their attendance on religious ordi-
nances. In dress, there has been of late years a marked advance.
Their cottages also have been materially improved in comfort and
cleanliness. The pig style and dunghill for in no longer the fore-
ground decorations, and in many places, especially in the village of

<FOOTNOTE>That it has, however, decreased, the above proves beyond doubt, and, this is
comfirmed by the Act of Parliament of 1612, for translating the kirk from Gulance to
Dirleton, in which the following is given as one of the reasons for the removal:
"Considering likewayes that the town of Dirletoune is one flourishing toune," a de-
scription scarcely applicable to the present "toune of Dirletoun."


