
                   LISMORE AND APPIN.                       227

about 3000 feet above the level of the sea; and, where they are
accessible to man or beast, they afford no bad pasture for sheep;
but in many parts of them, particularly on the south side of the
valley, no foot of man or beast has ever trode, as they are acces-
sible only to the eagle and his feathered subjects.  Next to these
in importance, and certainly not second to them in beauty, are the
hills of Bailechelish, rising in beautiful pyramidal form immedi-
ately behind the residence of Charles Stuart, Esq. of Bailechelish.
These hills, the highest of which may be about 2000 feet above
the level of the sea, are covered almost to the top with the richest
verdure, and ornamented with a few venerable trees scattered
here and there over the surface, the representatives of the ancient
Caledonian forest, which terminated on the west at this point.
The highest of the Bailechelish hills is called Beinn-bheithir, i. e.
the mountain of the thunderbolt, perhaps from the singed red ap-
pearance of its two pointed pinnacles.  For two-thirds of its height,
it is covered with fine and luxuriant pasture, but its top is perfectly
barren, composed of a mixture of granite and whinstone, and co-
vered with white moss, a fit habitation for the ptarmigan and
mountain hare.  The hills on the opposite coast of Kingerloch in
the parish of Lismore are nearly of equal height with those already
mentioned, but more rocky and precipitous, rising from the edge
of the sea at an angle, perhaps, of 80&deg;, and their sides being much
broken with rocks and ravines, they present an imposing front;
but the uniformity is occasionally broken by some fine retiring
valleys, upon which the eye can rest with pleasure. *  These hills
contain a few caves of small dimensions.  In the face of the hill
of Glensanda, and not far from its base, there is a small cave
which, I am told, has lately been used as the school-house of the
district.  It is about equidistant from the extremities of an exten-
sive tract, over which the population are thinly scattered; and the
children lightly clad in kilted garment, without shoes and bonnet,
but with hearts as light as those of the deer of their mountains,
met one another and their teacher in this school-house built by
nature where they enjoyed the benefit of his instructions free from,
many interruptions, and temptations, and contagions, to which their
more luxurious, but not more innocent or more happy, southern
neighbours area exposed.  In the hill of Ardsheal in Appin is the
cave of Ardsheal, also of small dimensions.  It is in the side of a
deep ravine, through which a precipitous stream tumbles its rapid

<FOOTNOTE>Beinn-an scriodain in Kingerloch was lately found to be 3500 feet high.


