
                      PARISH OF DALKEITH.

      PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

               THE REV. NORMAN MACLEOD, MINISTER.*


	          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-DALKEITH appears to be a word of Celtic origin. In
the ancient charters it is generally written "Dalketh." In
Froissart it assumes. The French aspect of Alquest and D'Alquest,+
and in Leland's Collections,+ A. D. 1503, it is called by John
Young, the Herald, Acquick, and also Dacquick;-all which
forms evidently arise from peculiar modes of pronunciation. Ac-
cording to Chaliners it is compounded of Dal, a dale, and Caeth,
confined, and signifies the confined or contracted dale; thus describ-
ing its peninsular character, as being confined or bounded by the
waters of the North and South Esk, which unite at the distance
of about a mile beneath the town. Though this may be the de-
rivation of the name, yet it appears to us to be too remote and
too refined for a barbarous age. We have heard various plausi-
ble derivations proposed; but there seems to be no data for as-
certaining their accuracy. We would, therefore, merely state that
the Gaelic Dail-chatka, which means a field of battle, appears to
us most likely to be the correct etymon. There is no intimation,
indeed, from history or tradition, of any remarkable battle having
been fought in this locality; but from the frequent deadly feuds
that existed in ancient times, an event of that kind is far from
being an improbable occurrence. It is supposed that the family
name of Keith had a similar derivation.
   Boundaries.-The parish is bounded on the north-east by In-
veresk; on the east, by Cranstoun; on the south, by Newbattle;

<FOOTNOTE>This statistical account (with the exception of the natural history) was furnish-
ed by Mr Peter Steele, A.M., lately rector of Dalkeith, Grammar School.
    "Un chastel cinq lieues de Hainedeburgh, qu'on dit au pays, Alquest."-"Sun
mon chastel D'Alquest."
    Leland's Collection, Vol. iv. 8vo, London, 1770, pp, 282 and. 286.
    Caledonia, ii. 798-9.
    See Wood's Peerage, Family of Keith. See also Armstrong's Gaelic Diction-
ary under Cath and Dail. London, 1823. 4to.



