
   34                          BANFFSHIRE.

   highly advantageous site, being on a sort of platform projecting
   forward from the declivity on which the town is situated.  In its
   outside appearance the church is perfectly plain. 11 The spire"
   (says the worthy writer of the old Statistical Account) 11 still re-
   remains in - an unfinished state, which gives the whole building a
   heavy and awkward appearance.  It is intended, however, to re-
   sume the work next season."  I regret to say that the same
   words are still descriptive of the position of affaim in this par-
   ticular, if, merely for "intended," we read "not intended." An at-
   tempt was lately made to raise funds by subrcription for erecting
   a spire, according to a very handsome design, furnished by Mr
   Robertson, architect, of Elgin, but this purpose has not as yet
   succeeded.  The inside of the church is sparingly but very taste-
   fully decorated.     The pulpit and galleries are of uncommon
   height; and the whole character of the interior is in a high degree
   light, airy, and spacious.   A few years ago the church was very
   handsomely fitted up (by subscription) for burning gas lights.
      In the interior of the church (though the parish burying-ground
   is not adjoining-tbe old church-yard\f* being still used for that pur-
   pose,) are four handsome monuments of marble, built into the walls.
   One of these is a very fine piece of sculpture by Bacon. It  was
   erected, in addition to another in the cathedral church at Calcutta,
   by Sir David Octherlony and the army under his command, to the
   memory of Lieutenant Peter Lawtie, (a Dative of Banff.) It re-
   presents a soldier leaning over a funeral vase in an attitude of
   deep grief.  The figure and draperies are exquisitely carved.
      Of the other monuments, one is erected to the memory of the
   late Mr John Cruickshank, Rector of Banff Academy, by his
   former pupils; another to the memory of the late Mr A. Cassy
   (elsewhere mentioned as a benefactor of the town) erected by sub-
   scription.  Theremaihing monument is a private one.
     The townhouse' built about forty years ago, is a very large,
   but entirely plain building, forming two sides of a square, with a
   spire rising from the external anglp. The spire, which is much
   older than the house, is a sort of fluted cone, of very graceful
   proportion, rising from a square tower.   The whole height of
   the spire is 100 feet.  The tower, spire, and front of the house
   are built of dressed sandstone.    The house is of three very lofty

<FOOTNOTE>It may deserve mention that the burvinr-ground affords a favorable
   a small scale, of what may be called church-yard gardening, being laid
   out, and adorned flowers and Shrubs.


