
     Statistical Account

surface of the earth; the other stones are from 4 to 6 feet
long.  There is also, in the middle of this oval, a flat stone, 
which was probably the altar; it seems to have stood for-
merly at the east end, but has been thrown down by some
accident.  Distant about 3 paces from the eastern oval is a
circular hollow, laid to have been well of a considerable
depth, but it is now filled up; its diameter at top is 8 feet.
These ovals are situated on the top of an eminence, round
which are marked out three concentric circles; one at the bot-
tom, another 28 paces above the former, and the third 12 paces
higher, immediately surrounding the ovals.  The circumfe-
rence of the first is 80, of the second 50, and of the third,
or highest circle, 35 paces.  It is observable, that these cu-  
rious remains have a great resemblance to many others in dif-
ferent places of Great Britain, particularly to those in the pa-
rish of Addington, near Malling in Kent, (an account of which
is given by Mr Colebrook in the Archaeologia, vol. ii. page
107.), and the celebrated ones at Stonehenge in Wiltshire *.
Large conical heans of stones, or cairns, as they are called,
are to be met with on the tops of many of the hills and emi-
nences in the parish.  About 800 paces to the west of the
above ruin is a circular cairn, in diameter about 30 paces,
containing, in the center, a grave 3 feet 6 inches long, 18
inches broad. and 14 inches deep, neatly lined with four flat
stones, and covered by another.  There are also at the
circumference three graves of the same dimensions, on the
east, south, and west, but they are in a more ruinous condi-
tion than the central one.  It is probable that these were the
sepulchres of a certain family or tribe; the chief was buried

<FOOTNOTE>

*In order to make the above description more easily under-
stood, Mr Robertson subjoined a sketch of the form and situa-
tion of these stones; and the Editor is sorry that the plan of
this work would not suffer an engraving of it to be made.


