
                        EDINBURGH.                        709

change. Edinburgh returns two members to Parliament, and has
a constituency of 6489. The municipal constituency is 3679.
   Guildry and Merchant Company.-The institution of the
guildry seems to have taken place at an early period, but there
remains no proper documents to trace its history. The members
of this corporation consisted of the higher class of citizens in con-
tradistinction to the trades or artificers. The body is still nume-
rous, though they possess no exclusive privileges of trade, &c.
   The Merchant Company was constituted by royal charter in
1681. It erected "the then haill present merchants, burgesses
and gild-brethern of the burgh of Edinburgh who were importers
or sellers of cloaths, stuffs, or other merchandize, for the apparell
or wear of the bodies of men or women, for themselves and suc-
cessors in their own trade in all time coming, in a society or com-
pany to be designed the 'Company of Merchants of the City of
Edinburgh,'" which was ratified by act of Parliament 1693. A
subsequent charter and two successive acts of Parliament, the last
in 1827, have regulated the dues of entry, and authorized the
company to admit all persons "being merchants, burgesses and
guild-brethren, or entitled to be chosen merchants councillors
or magistrates of the city of Edinburgh." The entry money is
L. 63. The stock of the company in 1834 was L. 23,776. The
annual income L. 1100. From this income is paid in pensions to
twenty-one decayed members L. 301. To thirty-eight widows
L .580. There is a widows' scheme and fund distinct from the
common fund, which has an accumulated capital of about
L. 30,000, and distributes annually to thirty widows about L. 740.
This corporation has the patronage of the several hospitals to
be afterwards mentioned.
   The boroughs of barony of Canongate, Easter and Wester Ports-
burgh, and Calton have each their incorporated trades distinct
from those of the city of Edinburgh.
   Revenues of the city.-The revenues of the city are derived
from an impost on wines, the shore-dues of Leith, duties on articles
of consumpt brought to the public markets, revenue from land-
ed property and feu-duties, annuity tax for ministers' stipends,
seat rents, of city churches, &c., and an impost on ale and beer.
   In consequence of the frequent demands of the Scottish mo-
narchs on the city of Edinburgh, and the rapacity of some of their
prime ministers, it has been from an early period loaded with debt.
This debt has not been diminished in more modern times partly


