
674                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

rying and carriage.  The principal farms are enclosed with stone-
dikes, the materials in most places being found in abundance upon
the land.  There are some thriving thorn hedges, and had it not
been for the superfluity of stones, such enclosures would have been
far more common than they are, and would have added much to the
shelter and beauty of the district.  Indeed we can suggest no greater
improvement for the appearance of the parish than their extension.
There are clumps of old ash trees about many of the farmsteads.
Around the seat of Mr Forbes Irvine of Schivas, and the old
castle of Tolquhon, are some very fine trees.  There are also se-
veral thriving young plantations, but of no great extent.  On the
whole, Tarves is slenderly wooded, which is to be regretted, as
respects both utility and beauty.
   Leases, Rents, &c.-The leases are all for nineteen years, and
are mostly held for a fixed money rent, though some are valued
partly in meal, the agreement in some cases being that the article
itself shall not be exacted by the landlord, but the price of it ac-
cording to the fiars of the year.  Leases are generally renewed by
private bargain before expiry; and such is the good understanding
between proprietor and tenant, that for a long period no farm has
been valued or put up to a competition of bidders, nor have any
instances of the removal of tenants occurred.  The highest rents
paid in the parish are for the lands adjoining the village, which
are let for L.3 per Scotch acre; but the average rent per acre of
the whole parish falls rather below one-third of that sum.
   The valued rent of the parish is L.4880 Scotch.  The real
rental at present amounts to nearly L.8000 Sterling.
   Wages and Condition of Servants, &c.-Servants are engaged
by the half year at stated feeing-markets, and mostly live in the
farmers' houses.  Ploughmen get from L.6 to L.8 boys and men
of all work from L.3 to L.6 for the six months, exclusive of board.
Some of the married men get houses from the farmers, and a
cow's keep, or 1 1/2 pint of milk per day with a spot of ground to
grow vegetables, the rest of their wages being paid in money,
meal, and potatoes.  Many of the jobbers, ditchers, and day-la-
bourers rent small crofts from the proprietor, and when the wea-
ther will permit are always in full employment, at from 10s. to
12s. a week.  Masons, carpenters, and other artisans earn from
2s. 6d. to 3s. a day.  Work is frequently more plentiful than
workmen, especially in the seasons of turnip-hoeing and of har-
vest, when many come from a distance, and more would often be
                              6


