
                       ST NINIANS.                         321

ling and Dunblane did solemnly admit, and, debito modo, ordine
Mr John Locran, formerlv minister of the Gospel at Lecropt, to
be minister of the Gospei at St Ninians." He was cordially re-
ceived, and during his time, parochial superintendence reached its
highest perfection. There were between forty and fifty elders.
These were divided into committees, and the detail of their proceed-
ings would fill volumes. Mr Logan died, 14th July 1727, the
session marking with special care " that he had been minister here
thirty-two years and tbirty-nine days." Once and again, they ten-
derly allude to the loss they had sustained.
   Under November 22, 1727, we have the following minute:
"The which day the heritors, to the number of one hundred and
sixty, besides ten letters or thereby from heritors not residing, in
the parish; the whole elders to the number of forty-six, and about
eight hundred and twelve heads of families, and none at all of
either ranks opposing, mett and most cheerfully subscribed a call
to the Rev. Mr Archibald Gibson, minister of the Gospel at Dun-
blane, to be their minister." Mr Gibson went to Edinburgh in
1732, and was succeeded by Mr Mackie of Forteviot in March
1734, in direct opposition to the wishes of the people; and during
his incumbency about one-half of the parishioners are said to
have joined the Secession. On the retreat of Prince Charles,
1st February 1746, the church, which bad been used as a powder
magazine, was blown up and several persons killed. Some years
elapsed before the new church was erected, during which public
worship was conducted in the glebe in summer, and in the West
Church of Stirling in winter. The Lord's Supper was once and
again dispensed in the open air; and we find the congregation
in the West Church in November 1750. They must have enter-
ed the new church in the end of that year, or early in 1751.
The session, in Mr Logan's time, had enlarged the church by
building an aisle, and they now requested the heritors to refund
to them the poor's money which had been laid out. This they
refused; and Mr Mackie, going to London, collected L-504,
"which was given mostly for the support of an assistant." This
gave rise to a law-suit between the heritors and session, and in
1780 the heritors prevailed, and the Court of Session ordered that
hence forward nothing should be paid to the assistant from this fund.
  Mr Mackie went to the West Church, Edinburgh, 1753; and
the session were successful in procuring the harmonious settle-
ment of Mr John Gibson, who, was ordained in May 1754. He
  STIRLING.				    X


