
     Of Kilmuir Wester and Suddy.

tion was inferior to no place in this country.  The kirk and
manse of Suddy were built to the N. side of the parish, in the
heart of a rich and fertile country*.  This parish, which
now goes commonly by the name of Knockbain, (from the 
kirk and manse being built on a spot of ground of that name),
is rather irregular in its form, being divided by a branch of
the Murray Frith that goes toward Beauly, called the Bay
of Munlochy.  It is also covered on the N. and N. W. by a
part of the parish of Killearnan, for at least 2 English miles.
Its length from E. to W. is supposed to be from 5 to 6 miles,
and from S to N. from 6 to 7.  The air is clear and salubri-
ous, which is in a great measure owing to the immense quan-
tity of open country and moors, which still lie uncultivated

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*These two parishes, together with the parish of Killearnan, were united in
the year 1756, at the joint request and application of all the heritors, (except
Mr. McKenzie of Suddy), and of the 3 incumbents, viz.  Mr. Donald fraser of
Killearnan, Mr. Munro of Suddy, and Mr. Robert Munro of Kilmuir, to the
Lords of Council and Session, as commissioners for the plantation of kirks and va-
luation of and upon the death of the minister of Suddy, which happened
in 1762, the kirk and manse of the united parishes of Kilmuir and Suddy were
built upon a bleak and barren moor, to the S. side of Munlochy, called, by way
of burlesque, Knockbarn, where it had a glebe affixed to it of considerable ex-
tent, but of little value.  This place, no doubt, was chosen for the accommoda-
tion of the parishioners being centrical; but with little regard to the minister's
comfort or advantage.  The stipend of the three parishes was equally divided
on the death of Mr. Munro of Suddy, which happened May 1762, between the
minister of Killearnan, and the minister of the united parishes, and a consider-
able part of the parish of Kilmuir, and a small part of the parish os Suddy, were
annexed to the parish of Killearnan, and a part of the parish of Killearnan was
was disjoined from it, and annexed to the united parish of Kilmuir and Suddy.
One thing worthy of remark in this division of the parishes, is, that in order to
make the stipends equal, there is from on town, Wester-Kessock, 5 bolls of sti-
pend payable to the minister of Killearnan, although the minister of the united
parish is obliged to perform every part of the pastoral office quaad sacra, and
the inhabitants of the town accommodated with room in the church of the u-
nited parish.

</UNREADABLE>


