
			 INVERESK.                           271

ken down, and a modern structure, much inferior in architectural
beauty, was reared on its site.  Of the chapel of Loretto, to which
pilgrimages were made on foot by kings, nothing remains but a
small burial vault; and a thick grove now usurps the bank, where
votaries knelt at the shrine of Mary Magdalene.
   The mill granted to the monks of Dunfermline by David I.
stood at the top of the Shire-haugh, and had its hereditary
miller attached to it.* It was burned down in 1827; and its site,
with the banks of the Esk upward on the eastern side, was sold in
the following year by the magistrates of Musselburgh to the pre-
sent Duke of Buccleuch.  The mill itself lay on the slope of the
bank by the road side, and an ancient bridge of one arch spanned
the mill-lead.  To the north of it was the miller's house, a plea-
sant mansion of two stories, and at either side of it were minor
domiciles for his assistants.  A parapet of stone enclosed the
whole, together with their gardens; and some venerable ashes
and elms spoke of bygone centuries. The boundary walls of
Dalkeith park now encircle the spot, and no vestiges of the build-
ings remain.
   When the plough was first here employed in agriculture, we
have no authentic record, but most assuredly this took place pre-
vious to 1070,--the commencement of the Scoto-Saxon dynasty.
The greater proportion by far, however, of the district was cover-
ed with woods, affording shelter and pasturage for docks and herds,
besides multitudes of wild game; and from the MS.  Monast.
Scotiae, we learn, that Alexander II. granted a free warren
to the monks of Dunfermline through their lands, of Musselburgh,
prohibiting any one from hunting or trespassing there, under
a penalty of L. IO. In those ages it was an established right
of the clergyman to enjoy common of pasturage throughout his
own parish.
   We have already mentioned the Roman: roads traversing the
parish of Inveresk; and these seem to have continued long there,
and throughout tbe country, as the only public means of communi-

<FOOTNOTE>In the Inquis.  Special xv. 69, we find that, in June 1636.  Thomas Smith was
served heir to his father, a burgess of Musselburgh, in two oxgates of the lands of In-
veresk, two and a-half series in the moor at Inveresk, and a tenement in Invezesk, to-
gether with the office of hereditary miller of the will called the shire mill, within the
limits of Inveresk; with the mill acre; also to the sixth part of the four corn-mills
of Musselburgshire; and to the sixth part of the haugh, near the said shire mill.
   The present sea-mill of Musselburgh was one of the  earliest works of that celebrat-
ed engineer, the late Sir John Rennie.
         Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 725.


