
	896                       PERTHSHIRE.

	pressed with great advantage to the interests of morality.  The
	other two, established at Damhead, along the line of the grdat
	north road, would prove amply sufficient for the accommodation
	both of parishioners and of the public.
	  Fuel.-At a former period, turf, furze, and peat were used to a
	considerable extent, but now coal is almost exclusively employed
	as fuel.  It is generally conveyed from Kelty, at the distance of
	twelve miles from the centre of the parish ; but it is also frequent-
	ly brought from the collieries of Lumphannan and Lochgelly, a
	little fartber off.  It varies in price; at present it is sold at the
	pit mouth, at the rate of 3d. the cwt., 4s. 16 cwt. or four loads,
	which is the usual quantity put upon a single cart.  A cart load,
	including carriage and tolls, costs in the parish, 9s. or 9s. 6d.

		       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	  During the last fifty years, a striking change has been effected
	in the general aspect of the country.  New lines of comunnica-
	tion have been opened up, and in many instances, districts which
	were once remarkable for bleakness and sterility, are now in a
	state of cultivation, or embellished with thriving plantations.  The
	spirit of improvement has certainly reached the portion of the
	Ochils of which this parish is composed.  All who knew it half a
	century ago, and remember its extensive tracks of furze and of
	heath,-its comparative want of roads, and enclosures ;-and now
	witness its well cultivated fields, substantial fences, excellent roads,
	and beautiful stripes and clumps of wood,-must be convinced that
	a decided change to the better has taken place.  Of the various
	improvements which have been carried into effect, one of the most
	important is the formation of the new turnpike road which passes
	through the parish.  The portion of this road which runs through
	Glenfarg to Damhead was executed between 1808 and 1810, but
	the part which extends from Damhead towards Milnatbort was not
	completed until 1832.  If, in addition to what we already posses,
	the proposed Western Fife Railway be ever executed, our means of
	communication may then be considered as most complete.

	Drawn up September 1841.
        Revised December 1842.


