
406                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

heights of this parish, upon the marches between Ross and Suther-
land. The pursuing party at first attempted to recover the goods
and cattle which had been carried off; but this being opposed by
Macleod and his men, a furious battle ensued, in which great va-
lour was displayed on both sides. It was "long, furious, cruel,
and doubtful," says Sir Robert Gordon in his "Genealogical
History of the Earldom of Sutherland," and was "rather despe-
rate. than resolute." At last, the Lewismen, with their leader,
Malcolm Macleod, who was nicknamed Gill-callum-beg-Macbhowan,
were slain; one man alone, who was sorely wounded, escaping to
carry home the dismal tidings to Lewis, which he had scarcely
delivered, when he expired. The place of the fight was thence-
forward called Tuiteam-Tarbhacb, which signifies the fertile fall
or slaughter. A little to the east of the field of battle, there is a
lonely unenclosed burial-ground, picturesquely situated on an ele-
vated bank, where those who fell were interred; its sequestered
situation, its grey, moss-covered stones, and its nameless graves,
all combine in increasing the natural solemnising influence of the
scene. The period when this conflict occurred has not been ac-
curately ascertained. Sir Itobert Gordon says, "In the time of
Robert, Earl of Sutherland, son of Nicholas, the terrible battle of
Tuttim-Tarvach was fought;"-now, as "Robert succeeded to the
earldom, by the death of his father, in the year 1399," according
to Sir Robert, the battle must have taken place either in the end
of the fourteenth century, or the beginning of the fifteenth; but
from Sir Robert's not always being very particular in his dates,
the year 1397 may be considered as about the time of this
event.
  From the fourteenth till the seventeenth century, there is no
land-mark in the history of this parish. But about the middle of
the, latter century, the following incident occurred: In the month
of April 1650, the celebrated Marquess of Montrose, in prosecu-
tion of his chivalrous enterprize for placing Charles II. on the
throne of his ancestors, arrived in Orkney, and crossing the Pent-
land Frith with about 1500 men, landed without opposition at the
northern extremity of Caithness. He bad calculated on collect-
ing a considerable force in this country, but completely. failed;
succeeding however, in securing the basses of the Ord, leading
into Sutherland, and possessing himself of the castle of Dunbeath.
The Earl of Sutherland retired before him as he advanced, and
Montrose reached Strath Oikell, but with a force of only 1200 men.


