
     Statistical Account

is called, in an old charter, the Great Park of Crimond.
There are, however, very few trees in it at present; but it
appears, from the mosses, that there have been large planta-
tions formerly.  Many oaks, still fresh, have been found in
the mosses; but scarcely any other kind of wood.  In these
places, when the moss is exhausted, or nearly so, roots of
very large oaks are to be seen, as close together as trees of
their size could well be supposed to grow in a plantation.  In
the uppermost part of Crimond, the adjacent parts of Loan-
may, and a part of Longside, which was disjoined from Cri-
mond in the last century, there are several very extensive
mosses contiguous to each other, which, if we may judge
from those already exhausted, have been once covered with
wood*.

   Ale Houses.-There is only one licenced public house in
the parish; but there are several persons, who, by getting

<FOOTNOTE>

ter upon this feu, extant, was granted in 1627.  In that year, in a burgh-court
holden at Rattray, by the Honourable John Hay of Crimondmogate, William
Dalgardno of Blackwater, and David Rivis of Strathstedlie, bailies of the burgh
of Rattray, a jury of 13 honest men, citizens of the said burgh, find, that
Magnus Smith, the father of William Smith, died possessed of 4 roods of land
in the said burgh.  Upon this, David Rivis, one of the said bailies, superior of
the lands of Rattray, grants a charter on the said 4 roods in favour of William
Smith.-The next charter is granted in 1675 by William Watson of Haddo,
bailie of the burgh of Rattray, superior of the said lands, in favour of Isobel
Watson, spouse of Alexander Bisset in Bilboe.-The latest charter is granted
in 1711, by Charles Earl of Errol, superior of the lands of Rattray, in favour
of the daughters of the said Alexander Bisset and Isobel Watson.

*In Fordoun's Chronicle, after mentioning the defeat of Cummine at Inve-
rury, it is narrated, "That Bruce pursued him to Turriss, and afterwards de-
"stroyed by fire his whole earldom of Buchan."  The large plantations of trees
were no doubt destroyed with the rest of the earldom; and this is the more
probable, as marks of sire have been perceived on trees deep buried in the most.


