
364              INVERNESS-SHIRE.

sance.  They Excavate their burrows in the lower slopes of
sandy hillocks, whence they issue in stores, greatly damaging the
corn in the neighbourbood. Two or three hundred of them have
been often killed on some farms, in the short space of ten days.
The fox is still an inhabitant of our glens. In the precipices
among the higher mountains, the eagle builds its nest; hawks of
different species abound, as do also the owl, rook, hooded-crow,
jacksdaws, and raven. Magpies are not unfrequent. Blackcock
and grouse of different varieties are. numerous; the ptarmigan is
frequently met with; and partridges are abundant. The rock and
wood-pigeon often occur.
  Fishes.-The Beauly abounds in salmon grilre, and trout.
The fishing season of the salmon commences on the Ist of Fe-
bruary; of the grilse, on the Ist of June; and of the trout, on the
1st of July. A stray pike is found now and then. Yellow trout
are also sometimes met with. The lakes in the different districts
abound in pike and trout.
  Botany.-There is nothing very peculiar in the Flora of this
parish. The Vaccinium oxycoccos, called the badge of the clan
Grant, is found in the hills of Strathglass. The edges 6f many
small pools are encircled with broad and beautiful belts of the
Nymphea alba, or white water-lily. The trees indigenous to the
soil are, oak, birch, fir, and alder. Larch, hazel, and spruce
were some time ago introduced, and seem to be quite congenial.
In the upper districts of the country, there were formerly extensive
pine forests; the only relics of which are a few solitary trees, that
still cling to the precipices, or trunks dug up from the mosses.

                II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Eminent Persons.-The first individual worthy of notice, is the
Rev. John Farquharson, well known as the first collector of Gaelic
Poetry. He resided, for upwards of thirty years, in the Strath-
glass district of the parish, in the capacity. of Jesuit missionary.
Some time after the. Rebellion of 1745, Mr Farquharson was ap-
pointed Prefect of Studies in the Scots College of Douay, where he
remained till the year 1773. Having returned to Scotland at this
period, he left his MSS. behind him; but these papers having fallen
into the hands of persons unacquainted with the language, were to-
tally mutilated and destroyed. Information, however, was after-
Wards obtained from those who were students at Douay during Mr.
Farquharson's residence there, that after Macpherson's translation
of Ossian's Poems appeared, they had a distinct recollection of Far-


