
316                  ROXBURGSHIRE.

have been connected with Kelso by birth, residence, or burial, is
singularly limited.  In the long catalogue of abbots, priors, and
monks, preserved in the chartulary, there are not more than two
or three names which are associated,.in the mind even of the
learned, with any thing great or useful or interesting; the vast
majority, from what cause soever arising, whether from their in-
herent mediocrity, or "quia carent sacro vate," awaken in the
intelligent reader, no higher emotion than the names of as many
individuals in any common muster-roll.  The happy exceptions
are chiefly the following: James Stuart, natural son of James V.,
who held the office of abbot, during a period which forced him to
play a somewhat prominent part in border history; a monk of
the name of James, who is mentioned by Dempster, (Hist.  Eccl.
Gentis Scotorum,) as among the most celebrated Scottish authors
of the fifteenth century; and Henry, prior of Kelso in 1493, who
was the intirnate friend of the Italian poet Poliziano, as well as
himself the author of several literary works, among others a trans-
lation into Scottish verse, of Palladius Rutilius on Rural Affairs.
  Among the ministers of religion, since the Reformation, only
two require notice; the former, Mr James Ramsay, who, during
an incumbency of nearly half a century, exercised great weight,
not only in the subordinate judicatories, but also in the General
Assembly ; the latter, the late Mr John Pitcairn, minis-
ter of the Relief congregation, who, together with Mr Struthers *
of Edinburgh, materially contributed to awaken, throughout all the
sections of the Scottish Church, a taste for the graces of delivery.
  Kelso has always been peculiarly fortunate in its medical men.
Few country towns have produced, in one generation, three such
distinguished ornaments of their profession, as the late Dr An-
drew Wilson, whose treatise on Morbid Sympathy shows him to
have been far in advance of the science of his age; the late Dr
C. Douglas, the author of the former Statistical Account; and
Millar, the well known writer on Asthma.
  Land-owners.-- The chief landowners are, the Duke of Rox-
burghe, who holds about nine-sixteenths of the whole valued
rent; Sir George Scott Douglas of Springwood, Bart.; Captain

<FOOTNOTE>Though scarcely pertinent to the object of the present work, it may here be
mentioned as a fact worthy of record, that the late Dr Andrew Thomson was ac-
customed to speak of Struthers as his master in pulpit eloquence.  While a young
man, the Doctor went often to hear Struthers, then the great oratorical attraction of
Edinburgh ; and his admiration for the orator was such as not only to leave an in-
delible impression on his memory, but to stimulate him to emulate the graces he ad-
mired.


