
                       ALLOA.                                  5

   Prognostics of Weather.--The following signs of rain (from Dr
Jenner's poem on that subject) are also observed here:-

              The walls are damp, the ditches smell;
              Closed is the pink-eyed pimpernel.
              Loud quack the ducks, the sea-fowl cry;
              The distant hills are looking nigh.
              Low o'er the grass the swallow wings;
              The cricket, too, how loud it sings.
              The wind, unsteady, veers around,
              Or settling in the south is found.
              The whirling wind the dust obeys,
              And o'er the rapid eddy plays.
              The leech, * disturb'd, is newly risen,
              Quite to the summit of his prison.

Climate.--The whole parish, although the greater part of it lies

<FOOTNOTE>A cheap weather-guide is a leech, in an eight ounce phial glass, three-fourths
filled with water, covered with a piece of linen rag, and kept in a cool place, the
water being changed onde a week in summer, and once a fortnight in winter. In
serene weather, and during frost, the leech lies at the bottom of the glass, rolled to-
gether in a spiral form. Before rain or snow, it creeps to the top of its lodging, and
there remains till the weather is settled. Before wind, it appears in rapid motion.
Some time before thunder and rain, it remains almost constantly above the water,
and appears in great uneasiness.
  Swallows fly close to the ground, not only before rain, but in continued fine.
weather, chiefly in the mornings and evenings when the air is moister below than
Above; for then, the swallows finding no insects in the upper regions, confine their
fight to the lower. Insects, when tempted by a dry and comfortable state of the
atmosphere, soar to the supernal regions, whither the swallows pursue them. Again,
swallows, and especially swifts, are frequently to be seen flying the midst of thun_.
der clouds. In fact, good deal of nonsense has been written on the subject of prog-
nostications of the weather by animals, which has arisen chiefly from considering the
dicta of inaccurate observers as sound. So much for prognostics of the weather from
atmospheric phenomena, and from animals. The following are a few of those from
vegetables.
                 In every nook and sheltered dell,
                 Are faithful monitors, that tell
                 How pass the hours and seasons by.

   Many species of flowers are admirable barometers. Convolvolue arcencis and C.
sepium (small and great bindweed), Anemone nemorosa (wood anemone), and oxalis
acetosella (wood-sorrel), close on the approach of rain. Nymphaca alba (white water-
lily), the most magnificent of our wild flowers, opens about seven in the morning, and
closes about four in the afternoon. Arenaria (sandwort) opens about nine A. M. and
shuts between two and three P. M. Anagallis arvensis (scarlet pimpernel) is called
the poor man's weather glass, because it never expands its corolla in moist or rainy
weather, but opens, on fine days, at eight A. M. and closes at four P. M. Cichorium
intybus (wild suecory) opens and close at same hours. Bellis perennis (the moun-
tain-daisy) is open daily in fine weather. If Stellaria media (chick weed) fully ex-
expands its flowers, nor rain will happen for four hours or upwards. When it half con-
ceals its miniature white flower, the day is generally showery; but if it is entirely
shut up,a continued rain may be expected. These are facts worth knowing, not
merely to the naturalist, but to the traveller, the sportsman, the labourer, ad indeed
to every one who spends any part of his time in the fields, From a series of obser-
vations on the precise time that the flowers of different plants open, expand, and shut,
Linnaeus endeavoured to form a botanical time-piece by means of 46 different flowers.
In his Philosophia Botanica, (s.395,) Linnaeus has divided the solar flowers into
three classes:_1. Meteoric flowers,which expand sooner or later, according to the
cloudiness, moisture, or pressure of the atmosphere; 2. Tropical flowers, that open in
the morning, and close before the evening; becoming earlier or later, as the length of
the day increases or decreases; 3. Equinocthal flowers, which expand at a certain hour
of the day, and for the most pare close at another determinate hour.


