
               PARISH OF WHITTINGHAM.

PRESBYTERY OF DUNBAR, SVNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

          THE REV. JOHN LUMSDEN, MINISTER.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, &c.-THE name of the parish is derived no doubt from the
Saxon Whit-ting-ham, the dwelling on the White Mead. There
are several places in England of the same name. The village and
church of Whittingliam stand upon the bank of a winding stream,
which arises in the parish of Garvald, but is here called Whit-
tingham Water. This parish formed two chapelries, which were
subordinate to the church of Dunbar. The lower part of the pa-
rish was served by the chapel of Whittingham, and the higher
part in Lammermoor was served by the chapel of Penshiel, and
these two chapels formed two of the prehends of the collegiate
church, when it was settled under that form in 1342.
   Extent, Boundaries.-This parish extends in length from north
to south II miles, and its mean breadth from east to west is 4
miles, and contains 44 square miles. It is bounded on the south-
west by the parish of Garvald; on the west by Moreham; on the
north by Prestonkirk; on the east by Stenton; and on the south by
the parishes of Cranshaws and Longformacus, in Berwickshire.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.-The figure of the parish is ir-
regular. Its surface southward is varied and uneven, rising and falling
gradually from the village to the foot of Stoneypath hill; from the top
of which there is an extensive prospect of the German ocean, Island
of May, the Bass rock, the Frith of Forth, the coast of Fife, and
almost all the lower part of East-Lothian, and part of Mid-Lo-
thian. The village, which is but a small one, stands on an eleva-
tion of about 360 feet above the level of the sea. The air is keen
and the climate healthy, both in the lower part of the parish, and
in that extensive tract of it among the Lammermoor hills.
   Hydrography.-There are several excellent springs of water in
the parish; and several salubrious streams two through both its
lower hnd higher districts. The Whittingham water rises in the



