
                          NORTH BERWICK.               335
Andrews. The meetings are generally well attended. This is a
favourite amusement of the inhabitants throughout the year.
   Poaching is rare. Smuggling prevailed here, forty or fifty years
ago, to a great extent, but the means and the temptations are
believed to be nearly extinct. A boat with eight men, belonging to
the coast-guard, for the suppression of smuggling is stationed at
North Berwick; most of these men have families, and are of very
exemplary character.
   During the last three years there were 8 illegitimate births in the
parish.
                          IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Foundery.-There is a founder in the parish, where upwards of
20 workmen are employed in the manufacturing of steam-engines,
and machines for making drain tiles. The latter is the invention
of the Marquis of Tweeddale, for which he has a patent.
   Agriculture.-For the following statements and calculations, I
am mainly indebted to the kindness of Alexander Burn, Esq.
Bonnington, and Andrew Richardson, Esq., North-Berwick Abbey.
The total number of acres in the parish is 3456, of which 3282
are cultivated, and 174 in old grass and plantation and links;-
perhaps 30 acres being in links.
   Of the lands under tillage, about 200 acres, and likewise about
300 acres of old pasture, are in the possession of the owners; the
remainder is occupied by tenants, on leases of nineteen years, and
at rents from 7 to 12 bushels of wheat per acre, the value of which
is ascertained partly by the first and partly by the second fiars, of
the county, with the exception of about 400 acres let at four guineas
per acre.
   There are eleven tenants paying about L. 12,000 per annum,
though the sum varies annually with the prices of the fiars; and
each tenant employs on an average seven ploughmen and other
labourers.
   The greatest proportion of the land consists of a strong clay,
upon a close hard bottom; the remainder along the coast, consists
of links upon which the house proprietors of North Berwick have
the exclusive privilege of grazing cows.
   With a slight exception, the six course shift of cropping is ge-
nerally adopted, viz. fallow, wheat, grass, oats, beans and pease,
wheat; the land calculated for a four shift, being turnip, barley,
or spring-wheat, grass and oats.
   The land intended for fallow is generally ploughed in winter;
in spring it is ploughed across; it is then formed into ridges, the


