
176                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.


anciently used for military exercises and amusements. It has still
the name of Joisting-haugh.
   A stone tablet, of elegant sculpture, was, a good many years
ago, found in digging a grave within the church. One compart-
ment exhibits our Savour praying, while the three select disciples
are fast asleep. The other represents him saluted by Judas, and
seized by the guard. He is at the same time healing the ear of
Malchus, while-Peter is putting his sword in the sheath. Though
the stone be broken, the figures are not essentially injured.
   The Palace is the most interesting relic of former days, in the
parish. It is supposed that the site now occupied by the magni-
ficent ruins of this abode of ancient royalty, was the site of a Ro-
man station. Some have imagined that Linlithgow is the Roman
Lindum. Be this as it may: it was very early selected by the
Scottish princes, as one of their residences. It is supposed that
there was a royal mansion at Linlithgow, as early as the reign of
David I.,-who occasionally resorted here to enjoy the pleasure of
the chase, and to consume the local royal revenues "payable in
oxen, sheep, grain, and other descriptions of produce." The pre-
sent structure is of much more recent date. In 1424, the Palace
was consumed by fire, and the oldest portion of the existing edi-
fice is referred, by competent authorities, to the time of the first
James. It received considerable additions during the reigns of
James IV. and his successor; and the most modern part of it was
built by James VI. on his visit to Scotland in 1617. It was the
frequent residence of many of these princes, and was repeatedly,
with its lake and park, assigned as a jointure house for the Queens
of Scotland;-particularly, we may mention, Mary of Guise, who,
when she saw it, declared that she never saw a more princely pa-
lace. The sincerity of the compliment was shown by her frequent
residence. Nor need we wonder at the partiality of our monarchs
for Linlithgow,-as a more delightful situation cannot be imagined.
Situated upon an eminence projecting into the middle of the lake,
which it divides into two nearly equal parts, the Palace commands
several views of very pleasing scenery; and when the park was de-
corated with wood, of which some fine old trees still survive, the
royal domain must fully have justified the eulogy of Sir Walter
Scott. To enter into minute details of a building so well known,
would be superfluous. It may suffice to state, that, as it now stands,
the Palace is of a quadrangular form, having an open court within,
on the north side, five stories in height, with a tower in each corner.


