
                                 YARROW.                            41

called the Michaelmas flood; and those that have escaped the
poachers, return to the sea about, or after, Candlemas.
  The whole herbage on the hills around the sources of the Et-
trick Yarrow was destroyed by a caterpillar in 1762, long
called the wormy year, until 1802, when in June and July a simi-
lar occurence happened.  The upper parts of this parish, with
the high lands adjoining, were then overrun by a species of grub-
worm, belonging, it was at that time believed, to the order Lepidop-
tera, and genus Papilo. * A few of them were fed in a bottle by Mr
A. Laidlaw at Bawerhope, when, after undergoing the usual meta-
morphosis into a crysalis, they emerged beautiful butterflies, -laid
about one hundred eggs, and died.  They made their first appear-
ance on the dry benty land, consuming everything green; and though
thousands of crows and other birds fed constantly upon them, they
gradually spread into the boggy and finer pastures.  The only plants
spared were Calluna vulgaris, Juncus squarrosus, and Galin sax-
atile.  When they were feeding, from six to eight might have been
covered with the palm of the hand; and where a burn intercepted
their progress, they lay in heaps by the side.  Some heavy rains
at length drowned or swept them into drains, many of which
were literally stopped.  They again made their appearance in 1812,
1824, and 1826; but their ravages were confined to some of the
heights bordering an Dumfries-shire. +
  A similar infliction was felt more partially in 1829, and since by
the larva of a Tipula, - the common long legged fly.  This species
is different from the former in appearance and habits;  infesting
the soft boggy land. It is as thick as a goose-quill; of a dull pur-
ple colour; never burrows deep in the soil; works its way like the
earth-worm; and eats only the roots, or at least the white parts of
the grass.  The black caterpillar that devoured the turnip crop in
1805, and has never been seen since, was the larva of a fly some-
what like a gutter-wasp, of the genus Tenthredo, (Lin.) The


<FOOTNOTE>Kirby and Spence suppose the perfect insect to have been a moth of a genus call-
ed Phalarna by Linn(ae)us, Bombyx by Fabricius, and Chr(ae)as graminis by Stephens.
  +It is quite certain that the devastation of the herbage is occasioned by the larv(ae)
of the Characas graminis of Stephens, (Phal(ae)na graminis, Lin.); but the cause of
this insect being produced in certain places and seasons in such destructive numbers,
has not been ascertained.  The injury done to the pastures in some parts of the island,
however, is perhaps compensated by the increased production of grass in future sea-
sons; at least, in one case, the herbage of a portion of a hill destroyed in 1824, was at
the distance of six years, and in comparison with other parts of the same hill, percep-
tibly and materially improved.  Ent. Mag. i.200.


