
136			   LANARKSHIRE.

in 1719, the Court of Exchequer found them liable in the sum of
L. 40,000 Sterling. As the trade could not pay any such sum, a
compromise was suggested, and a clause added to an act of Par-
liament, authorizing the treasury to treat with them; and, by another
act, the sugar manufacturers were acquitted of the L. 40,000 on
relinquishing their right of exemption from duties and customs.
The statute is general, and seems to subject all other privileged
parties to the general custom and excise of the nation. The only
parties in Scotland at that time exempt from the importation du-
ties were the Glasgow and Leith sugar companies, the Glasgow
soap-work, the rope-work companies and a pin manufactory; the
three last made a claim as a compensation for the surrender of
their private rights, which does not seem to have been attended to.
The buildings of Stockwell Place are now erected on the site of
the sugar-house.
	The tanning of leather seems to have been carried on in Glas-
gow from an early period. The Glasgow Tan-work Company,
whose extensive premises were at the head of the Gallowgate, com-
menced soon after the Union. There seems to have been three
sets of partners in this great undertaking. In 1780, the names of
Provost John Bowman; Mr Alexander Speirs, of Elderslie; Mr
John Campbell, of Clathic; Mr Robert Bogle, of Daldowie; Mr
Robert Marshall, and others, appear among its partners.
	The brewing business, like the tanning, seems to have been car-
ried on with great spirit. Soon after the Union, Mr Crawford of
Milton erected an extensive brewery at Grabamston, afterwards
the property of Mr Robert Cowan. The brewing trade was car-
ried on extensively here at an early period by the Anderston Brew-
ery Company, and latterly by Messrs Blackstock, Baird, Struthers,
Buchanan, Hunter, &c.
	Proviously to the Union, the foreign trade of Glasgow was chiefly
confined to Holland and France. The union of the kingdoms,
which took place in 1707, having opened the colonies to the Scotch,
the merchants of Glasgow immediately availed themselves of the
circumstance, and having engaged extensively in a trade with Vir-
ginia and Maryland, soon made their city a mart for tobacco, and
the chief medium through which the farmers-general of France re-
cieve their supplies of that article. In 1721, a remonstrance was
preferred to the Lords of the Treasury, charging the Glasgow mer-
chants with faud. After having heard parties, and considered the
representation, their Lordships dismissed the complaint "as ground-


