
72                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

on the better soils is cultivated. Potatoes, turnips, clovers,
and rye-grass are raised all over the county. A fair proportion of
these farms is in grass, for which the soil and climate are both
favourable. The pastures of the cultivated land are occupied by
cattle, but sheep are kept in numbers only on the Cleish and
Ochill hill. It is supposed that about 3000 acres are under wood,
the most extensive plantations being on Blair-Adam. These were
begun in 1733, and at the present time cover about 1300 acres,
consisting of oak, ash, larch, elm, beech, spruce, silver and Scoth
fir; the last, however, it is understood, does not grow well in ex-
posed situations. The mineralogy of the shire is of little import-
ance. Coal has been found on the south, where the county joins
Fifeshire, but is not wrought in this county. Freestone quarries of
excellent quality are likewise wrought in the parish of Cleish, and
whinstone is almost every where to be met with. To the north of
Kinross, red freestone is the geological formation of the district,
and limestone, in great profusion, is obtained from the Lomond-
hills. The roads throughout the county are all good, and none in
Scotland can surpass in excellence the great north road, which runs
through Kinross, the county town. This town is the only one in
the shire, but there is a large and populous village, about a mile to
the north, called Milnathort. At both these places, several an-
nual fairs are held, and at the latter a weekly corn-market for the
sale of grain. The manufacture of cutlery was formerly carried
on in Kinross, but has for a long period beeen entirely abandoned.
A great many people are employed in weaving cotton, chiefly by
the manufacturers of Glasgow; and within the last twelve months,
two of three companies belonging to Kinross and Milnathort, have
set agoing the manufacture of tartan shawls and plaids, which
hitherto appears to have met with success.
    The annual value of real property in 1815, was L.25,805, and
now it cannot be estimated at less than L.35,000 or L.40,000.
    Legal assessments for the poor are seldom resorted to, the
heritors prefering to contribute according to their rentals what
sums may be necessary.
    In this country there are a few small rivulets, which, with the ex-
ception of the Leven, act as feeders to the loch. This sheet of
water lies in the south-east part of the county, at an elevation of
about 360 feet above the level of the sea, and is emptied by
the stream just alluded to, which flows in an easterly direction
through Fifeshire, till it disembogues itself into Largo Bay. Loch


