
232                          BANFFSHIRE.

chiefly arising from a natural sanguineness of temper, and the in-
fluences, perhaps, of the necessary avocations of the females upon
themselves and their children, who suffer from the want of con-
stant maternal superintendence. But no impartial observer will
deny to them the credit of being, on the whole, superior to most
other fishing communities on this coast. Many of them are in-
telligent, and strictly exemplary in their moral conduct, and re-
gular in their observance of the ordinances of religion, which has
hitherto, in the case of a growing number, been, it is believed,
better than the form of Godliness. Thdy show no disposition to
cast themselves, or their aged parents and relatives, upon public
charity; but, regarding it as a degradation, submit to privations in
order to avoid it. They are cleanly in their habits; and fish cured
by them consequently bears a superior reputation. Most of them
having their stated customers, it is not uncommon for them to
deal with these by means of an open account, enjoying the confi-
dence of their employers, and supplying their commodity without
the formality of a noisy contest about the price.
   An advance in civilization has here had its usual influence in
postponing the period of marriage, which, in fishing communities,
usually occurs at a very early stage of life. The males continue
to form a partof their father's family, until they have acquired the
means first of paying a fourth share of a herring-boat and nets,
and then, from the proceeds of this, of building and furnishing a
house; and, among the more respectable, the building, indepen-
dent of the furniture, has generally amounted to L.100. They
have not continued fully to maintain the high reputation for purity
established for them by the fact, that, till within the last twelve
years, there had scarcely been an illegitimate birth in the commu-
nity in the memory of man.
   The farm-servants are the class of the population, morally and
economically, in the least satisfactory state. They are hired half-
yearly, in the public market, on a purely commercial principle;
and many of them seldom re-engage to their former masters.  A
small number of them appear regularly in their places in the house
of God, or form any proper connection with ecclesiastical society.
Being mere sojourners in a parish, and unknown to minister or
people, they are not missed; and, were it otherwise, feel them-
selves independent of public opinion.
  The presbytery of Fordyce, some time ago, and the synod of


