

   1154                              PERTHSHIRE.

   abound with black and red game.   Partridges and snipe are com-
   mon on the low grounds; and pheasants, unknown in this parish
   till about twenty years ago, are now plentiful.
     The fishes in the lakes and rivers are, trout, pike, perch, and
   eel.  In Loch Katrine alone, the Salmo Alpinus or charr is to be
   found.  The trout of Loch-ard and Loch-con, which weigh from
   one to three pounds, are of the same quality with those of Loch-
   leven in Kinross-shire; the flesh is red and of a high flavour.
   They run up the streams connected with the lakes about the end
   of September.  Pike are often caught, weighing from fifteen to
   twenty pounds.  The spawning season of this fish is in the month
   of March, and it is not in good condition again till the beginning
   of June.
      Plants.--A great variety of plants, some of which may be con-
   sidered rare, are to be found in this parish and neighbourhood,
   such as the following:
   Cireaea lutetiana     Parnassia palustris      Adoxa moschatellina
   Schoenus albus        Allium ursinum           Pyrola rotundifolia
   Montia fontana        Triglochin palustre      Saxifraga
   Alchemilla Alpina     Trientalis Europaea      Comarum palustre
   Sanicula Europaea     Paris quadrifolia        Orchis
   Athamanta meum        Osmunda regalia          Rubus chamaemorus, &c.
   Sison inundatum       Vaccinium

     The native woods consist of oak, ash, birch, alder, hazel, moun-
   tain-ash, holly, the birds'-cherry, willow, wild apple, &c.  Larch
   has been lately introduced, but to no great extent, although it
   thrives remarkably well.  The native shrubs are numerous.  The
   juniper, broom, furze (Ulex Europaeus,) honeysuckle, ivy, gale, &c.
   everywhere abound.
                       II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     Aberfoyle appears to have depended in former times, quoad
   sacra, on the monastery of Inchmahome, some beautiful remains
   of which are to be seen in the Isle of Menteith, in the neighbour-
   ing parish of Port.  In the genealogical tree of the Earls of Men-
   teith, we find a Patrick Graham, a descendant of the family, en-
   titled "'Vicar of Aberfoyle." About the period of the Revolution
   a Mr Robert Kir was minister of the parish.  He was a man of
   learning, and bad a principal share in the translation of the Psalms
   into Guelic verse.  His grave-stone, which may be seen near the
   east end of the church of Aberfoyle, bears this inscription, " Ro-
   bertus Kirk, A. M., Linguae Hiberniea Lumen."  He died in 1692.
   To him, succeeded Mr William Fisher, who, during the establish-
   ment of Episcopacy, had been minister of Eastwood, near Glasgow.
                                   3




