
226				BANFFSHIRE.

the fifteenth century. Around the family arms, and the cross of St
Andrew, surmounted by the mitre, appears the legend " Jacobus
Episcopus Sancti Andre." Near the north-east corner of the
wood of Whyntie,\f* is an artificial mound, known by the name of
the Gallows cairn, on which tradition of course testifies that many
suffered by the righteous or capricious decree of their feudal lord.
Unplanted avenues have been left, from this point towards the
mansions of Boyl, Inchdrewer, &c., report says, as a memorial of
the right enjoyed by the surrounding barons in common, of award-
ing to their vassals, at pleasure, the crowning and peculiar privi-
lege of the place. Another gallows cairn exists in the parish, on
'the summit of the Lodgehills, deriving its name from having been
the place of execution of a man and woman, who conspired in
putting to death the husband of the latter, farmer in Midtown of
Badenspink, in Fordyce parish, about the beginning of last cen-
tury. About thirty yards to the east of the steading, on the farm
of Dallachy, below the old road, five or six urns, containing the
remains of bones, were found a few years ago. They were of
rude construction, except one, which is said to have been well
shaped, ornamented with diagonal lines crossing each other, and
surmounted by a lid and handle. The adjoining houses were
built on a reputed Elf hillock. Another similar urn was found
a few years ago at the base of a small circular mound, at the lower
extremity of the plantation extending from Craig-herbs to the
turnpike road. Many such barrows have been opened in this part
of the country. There is much reason to doubt whether they
were Roman.
  Eminent Persons.-Tbe parish had the bonour of giving birth
to Thomas Ruddiman, the eminent Latin grammarian, and libra-
rian to the Faculty of Advocates, whose father, James Ruddiman,
was farmer at Raggal. His name does not appear in the paro-
chial register, which only commences at a distance of above twenty
years after the time of his birth, said to have been in the year
1674. Here also was born a personage whose fame is of a
different character, Mrs Buchan, the founder of a religious sect

<FOOTNOTE>The late Mr James Morrison, tenant of Whyntie obtainied unexpected publicity
for his name, as being the subject of a famous letter by the Lord Advocate to the
Sheriff-substitute of the county in December 1803, which, having found its way to
Mr Whitbread, furnished him with an occasion of effectively vindicating the prin-
ciples of British liberty. Persons from England visited Whyntie, expecting to
see a representative of the Hambdens of other days. Mr Morrison declined a pro-
posal by his fellow parishioners, to institute an action at law in this case, to be car-
ried on at their own expense.


