
     of Kilmarnock.

ing town this place has advantages and disadvantages, which
it may not be improper briefly to mention.  Among the ad-
vantages may be reckoned its situation in the midst of a po-
pulous and fertile country, where provisions of all kinds are to
be had in abundance, and at moderate prices.  Coal, so ne-
cessary in almost every branch of manufacture, is found close
to it in vast abundance, and may be had easier and cheaper than
in any other town in the neighbourhood.  The town is fur-
nished with a meal-market, plentifully supplied with good and
wholesome grain; and always a penny or three halfpence a
peck cheaper than in the Glasgow or Paisley markets.  Indeed
all forts of provisions especially meal, butter, eggs, and poul-
try, are so much cheaper in this part of the country, that they
are constantly carried to the Glasgow and Paisley markets, not
merely to supply the demands of there populous towns, but to
bring greater prices than can be got them at home.  The
town is also provided with an excellent market for all forts of
butcher meat, which is reckoned by far the best in the neigh-
bourhood; in so much that many families in Glasgow, at the
distance of 21 miles, are supplied from it; induced, partly by
the superior quality of the meat, and partly by an addition to
the weight of an ounce and a half to the pound.-The
chief disadvantage under which the place labours, is its inland
situation, being about six or seven miles distant from the sea.
This occasions a considerable expence in the land carriage of
raw materials, as well as in their exportation, when manufac-
tured.  A proposal was made some time ago to have this disad-
vantage removed, by a canla from the sea below Troon-point,
to the bridge at the south end of Glencairm-street.  This under-
taking would no doubt be attended with great expence; but as,
from all accounts, it is practicable, (the lands through which
it would run having no great ascent), if accomplished, it would

     VOL. II. M


