
                        HADDINGTON.                          15

parish attending the Established church is 830; of families at-
tending the chapels of Dissenters or Seceders, families
attending the Episcopal chapel, 26; of Roman Catholic families, 3.
   Education.-Besides a grammar school for classical learning, a
school for English reading, writing, arithmetic, and geography,
with a department for mathematics appointed and endowed by the
burgh, there is a parochial school supported by the landward he-
ritors at the maximum salary. Fees may amount to L. 5O per
annum. English reading, 2s. 6d. a quarter, writing do. 3s. 6d.,
arithmetic, 4s. 6d. The proportion of those who learn reading
alone is two-thirds. The class books in use at present are Mr
Wood's, and the Scriptures alternately. There are also several
schools taught by private individuals.
   Under the head of education it may be mentioned that there
are several Sabbath schools taught by the elders of the Establish-
ed church; each taking charge, as far as practicable, of the young
in his own allotted district of the parish.
  Mechanics Institution.-A mechanics School of Arts was com-
menced here so early as 1823, in which lectures in chemistry, in
several branches of mechanics, and in physical, moral, and eco-
nomic science, have been delivered. The institution is provided
with a suitable apparatus, museum, and library.
  Tyneside Games.-These games, consisting of various gymnastic
exercises, as running, leaping, wrestling, &c. &c. have been cele-
brated these two years past in Amisfield Park, amid a great con-
course of spectators, and under the patronage of the neighbouring
noblemen and gentlemen.
  Societies.-Many societies hold their regular meetings here, as
the Agricultural, Horticultural, and the Ancient fraternity of gar-
deners of East Lothian. There are also societies for extending
the knowledge and influence of religion over the world, as the East
Lothian Bible Society, and the Society for Propagating Christianity,
with their auxiliaries of a penny a-week, and a Juvenile society of
1d. a-week.
  Various benevolent Societies have been instituted, and are in
operation for the aid and relief of sick or indigent members. Late-
ly, a Mutual Assurance society has been formed, on the best prin-
ciples of calculation, embracing, 1st, a Sickness fund for granting
weekly payments during sickness; 2dly, a deferred Annuity fund
for affording allowances to members for life after completing sixty


