
     Statistical Account

with a salary of 13 L. 10 s., and a parochial one at Tamch-
laggan, with a salary of 8 L. 6 s. 8 d.-No funds appropriated
for the relief of the poor, have been hitherto established in
this parish.  Three years ago, the trifling sum of 5 L. Ster-
ling, was bequeathed by an old woman; and, without ex-
aggeration, few parishes stand more in need of the charitable 
contributions of the well disposed.  The number of the old
and infirm at present on the list, amounts to 32 persons;
while the annual collection, distributed last week, came to no
more than 42 s. 6 1/2 d. Sterling.  In this large treasure, design-
ed to be incorruptible, beyond the power of the moths and rust,
there were 1 s., 5 sixpences, 443 d., and 50 farthings*.
   The price of provisions in this country has been different,
at different times.  In the reign of King William, it is well

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the years 1782 and 1783, the incumbent felt experimentally, the wretch-
ed condition of the poor here, and from the neighbouring countries.  Though
his own income was only, at that time, 47 L. 4 s. 5 1/3 d.; yet, of this pittance, he
expended, at a moderate calculation, 7 L. Sterling, each of these years, in cha-
rity.  Preaching that virtue to others, the forlorn urged their claims to him for
the practice of his doctrine; nor were their claims, proportionate to his abili-
ties, refused.  During the above years, his Grace the Duke of Gordon extend-
ed a humane concern to the distresses of the inhabitants, by supplying them in
meal and feed-corn, at a moderate price.  No person, as far as the writer of
this statistical article knows, died of want, though, it may be presumed, that
a portion of aliment unusually scanty, might prove the ultimate cause of the
death of several.  As the poor are peculiarly under the protection of provi-
dence, and left as a tax upon the affluence and luxury of their more fortunate
brethren of mankind, it were to be wished, that in parishes where there are
no funds, where the contributions are small, proprietors would be pleased to
bestow some little annual sum, under proper restrictions, to afford them relief.
Such charity might contribute to secure themselves a property in a more per-
manent country, and better climate than the present, where, even according to
Homer,

<UNREADABLE>

     Ou woctk, ut xp x

</UNREADABLE>


