
14			WIGTONSHIRE.

	"William Sprot in Clutoch being, about 1685, obliged to leave
his own house to shun persecution and went to Portpatrick on his
way to Ireland, and then at Portpatrick was apprehended and
brought back on his feet betwixt two dragoons exactly by his own
house-door to Wigtoun prison; his wife being big with child, fol-
lowed him to the said prison, when she saw him laid on his back,
in the cold prison, put in the irons, his ears cut off, his fingers
burnt by fiery matches; and afterwards he was sentenced to be
banished to America, and in his voyage thither he died. He was
a person eminent for piety. His poor wife for grief miscarried
of her child.
	"John Stuart in Kirkbien, about anno 1685, of known piety, was
stript of all his goods and gear.
	"William Kerr in Borland, anno 1685, was imprisoned with the
said Margaret Lauchlison, and made his escape.
	"John Dunn in Stewartown, about the year 1685, of singular piety,
was imprisoned and banished, and in his voyage died at sea; and
Janet Dunn, his daughter, was carried prisoner to Glasgow, and
before she was carried there, had her fingers burnt with fiery
matches, and wedged into wimle bores.
	"Margaret Maxwell, servitrix to Alexander Vaux of Barwhannie
was imprisoned at Wigtoun about 1685, and scourged there three
several times by the hand of the common hangman, and afterwards
carried prisoner to Glasgow, in order to banishment.
	"Margaret Middinel, about the same time imprisoned; she
lived in the Meikle Airies.
	"Agnes M'Culloch, in Stewartown, spouse to Anthony Ha-
thorn, was fined in two or three hundred merks.
	"John M'Reikie, in Newton, about the same time was fined.
	"Andrew Martin of Little Airies, about the year 1679, was de-
clared a rebel for going to Bothwell, was forfeited, his house fre-
quently plundered, his corns eaten up by dragoons and their
horses, till his wife, Margaret Kennedy, who remained in his
house for some years after the forfaulture, was necessit to forbear
manureing the ground, in regard that the product was still an er-
rand for the snldiers to come there, she could preserve no stock,
save some few sheep, for want of fodder. There was no way left to
the said Margaret Kennedy to support herself and children, but
by improving the wool and milk of the sheep, which was all they
had to subsist on for years. But she refusing to take the oath of
abjuration, and other oaths then generally imposed on men and
                              4


