                             LADY.                             135

adds to the embass'y Thorsteill, the son of RaDgnu, and Thor.-
stein, the son of Havard of Sanday." Again,-Sanday is men-
tioned as a fit place for a conference to be held between Swein,
of Asleif, and Anakol, a follower of Earl Erlend.  I When
son
Gauti met Swein, he sent a messenger to Anakol, and requested'
Swein to betake himself to Sanday, with his followers, that they
might hold a conference there.  He therefore promised, licsho.uld
go thither.'t
cc In the year 1157, Earl Erlend and Swein left Shetland for
Orkney; but, I  encountering.a severe storm, and a-variety of
whirlpools, in Dennis roost, it happened that Swein was separated
from the Earl, and driven to Fair Isle, with twelve of their ships.
He concluded that the Earl bad perished.  From thence lie sail-
ed south to Sanday, where be found ErIeDd- with three ships.
There- was great joy on both sides at this meeting +
ED +
In the year 1 158, Swein fled to Sanday to escape the wrath of
Earl Haralld, whose house in Gairsay be bad forcibly entered, with
intent to murder him; but Haralld then happened to be in a neigh-
bouring island, buntino, bares.  When Haralld was informed, by his
domestics, of this outrage of Swein, he immediately set out in search
of him to Enhallow, whither Swein had fled; however, he contrived
to conceal his vessel in a large cavern in one of the cliffs of that
island, and so eluded the search of his pursuers, although they were
at one time so close to the mouth of the cavern  ,that he overheard
their conversation," 11 He leaves his ship in the cavern, and seizes
a merchant vessel which belonged to the monks, sails to Sanday,
and there lands and sets fire to the ship, Upon landing, he repairs
to a farm called V61unes, occupied by a man named Bardr; be was
a kinsman ot Swein; having privately begged of him to come out,
he made known to him his wish to remain there."
" The. remains of the Scandinavian buildings of Sanday are nu-
merous in Lady 'parish ; but it is to be regretted, that all of them
are now in so ruinous a state, as to render'an accurate description of
them impossible.  They mostly abound on the nesses or headlands,
which situations appear to have been first settled, both from their
proximity to the sea, from which the inhabitants would procure
their chief sustenance, when agriculture wiis unknown or little at-
tended to, and from such situations being most easily -defended
against the attacks of neiffbbouring tribes.

Vide Orkneyinga Saga, pp. 214,215.  t Ibid. 0. 332.
Ibid. W, 349,                        Ibid, 'pp. 370,371.


