
                               ABERLADY.                             251

of clay soil, not naturally fertile; and it is only when the land begins
to rise with a gentle elevation to the south that the soil is generally
good. Here, however, it is of excellent quality; and, being well
suited to the production of every kind of crop, amply repays the
labour of the farmer. There is neither freestone nor limestone
quarry in the parish. Lime rock, however, exists in abundance;
but as lime may be had more conveniently in the immediate neigh-
bourhood, it is not burnt. It is not doubted that some seams of
coal, in connection with the great coal-field of Mid-Lothian, run
through the parish, but no attempt has ever been made to work
them, nor is it believed that any such attempt could be made with
advantage. A good deal of whinstone is quarried along the shore
for the use of the roads in the neighbourhood, and it is reckoned
very well suited to the purpose.
   Botany.-It is not believed that any plants deserving the ap-
pellation of rare are now to be round in the parish. Those which
are not frequently observed in other districts are still common in
the neighbourhood. There are no woods of natural growth in the
parish; and though extensive plantations have been made within
the last fifty years, for ornament and shelter, there is in this re-
spect still room for improvement. Near the sea, trees seldom grow
luxuriantly, partly, it is probable, from the sandy nature of the soil
in which they have been planted, partly from the force of the
winds, to which they are in a peculiar degree exposed, and
partly from the saline particles with which these winds are impreg-
nated. A very little way inland, however, trees of every species
commonly planted, seem to thrive at least moderately well, and
there are many trees and shrubs in the parish of much luxuriance
and beauty.
   Zooloqy.- There are no wild animals peculiar to the parish, and
it is not remarkable for "breeding any species of cattle of distin-
guished quality, size, or value." It abounds in hares, pheasants,
and partridges; and rabbits and wood-pigeons are so numerous
as to be in no small degree injurious. Lapwings and curlew visit
us in considerable numbers in autumn; and during the winter
months, the bay is frequented by large flocks of wild geese, by dif-
ferent sorts of plovers, and by many varieties of the duck tribe. It
abounds also in cockles, mussels, and in some of the smaller sorts
Of shell-fish; but, in an economical point of view, they are of little
value, and mussels, at least, are much less plentiful than formerly.
   Climate.-The climate of this parish is dry and salubrious. The


