
236                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

casionally meet with thin and sometimes pretty lofty masses of
trap-rock (generally a sort of claystone porphyry:) and so simi-
lar are teh appearances to regularly built wall with a quantity
of coarsely cemented building on either side of it, that the term
"castle" has been not unnaturally applied to them. This conglo-
merate may be traced in many other parts of the parish, occur-
ring in great abundance on the farm of Woodhall. We have not
been able to discover with any exactness where the old red sand-
stone ceases, and the rocks of the coal formation begin. It seems
to be, however, a little north of the village of Innerwick, in a direc-
tion from east to west-the change of formation being probably
a very gradual one; that is, the one set of rocks probably passes
into the other, without any visible junction or marked difference
of external characters. At the little hamlet of Thornton, and at In-
nerwick Castle, the rocks appear to be those of the coal formation,
and from this latter place, they seem to continue in a straight line
westward to the several farms named Pinkerton, in the parish of
Dunbar. The lower portion of the parish, viz. the district between
the localities last mentioned, Thornton, Innerwick, &c., and the
sea, being covered with a deep and fertile soil, we have scarcely
any opportunity of observing in it either the characters of the fun-
damental rocks, or the order and manner in which the different
strata present themselves. These can be observed only on the sea-
coast with anything like regularity or satisfaction, and our remain-
ing observations, therefore, shall be restricted to a very general de-
scription and examination of it. The sea-coast of this parish com-
mences a little eastward from Thorntonloch, where a little stream,
which flows into the sea, separates it from the adjoining parish of
Oldhamstocks. The shores of this latter parish are a continua-
tion of those of Cockburnspath *-the exact designation and era
of the rocks composing which have been much disputed by geo-
logists. Latterly, however, it seems to be agreed that they are
to be considered a very old portion of the coal formation-an
opinion which, as we travel westward to the shores of Innerwick,
gradually receives stronger confirmation, that is to say, while,
in the parish of Cockburnspath, we have only sandstone, indura-
ted marl, and a coarse kind of slate clay or shale, we find, as we
advance westward, the other and undoubted members of the coal
formation gradually displaying themselves. These additional rocks
are, limestone, clay, ironstone, bituminous shale, and, occasionally
cropping out about high-water mark, thin seems of the coal itself,

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Statistical Account of that parish.


