
266                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

<TABLE>
              The number of persons under 15 years of age is     620 }
                                    betwixt 15 and 30,	     383 }
                                            30 and 50,	     343 }
                                            50 and 70,       209 }  
                                    upwards of 70,	            91 }
  							                      ---- }
                                              Total,	          1646 }

Thus it appears, that if the last census was accurately taken,
which is very doubtful, there is an increase of nearly 100 since
1831.

<TABLE>
        The number of unmarried females above 45 is	          50 }
                                men and bachelors above 50,     10 }  *
                                widowers upwards of 50,	    20 }
                                widows,	   .       .       .  48 }

   The only person of independent fortune residing in the parish
is William Gordon, Esq. the former proprietor of the estate of
Aberdour, and who still occupies the family mansion and manor
farm. +  There are two proprietors of land of the yearly value of
upwards of L. 50, both non-resident.  The average number of
children in each family may be about 3.
   Character of the People.-The people, for the most part, are
of the middle-size, muscular, and well-proportioned.  There is
no insane person in the parish, only two of rather weak intellect
two partially blind, and none deaf.
   The language spoken is the broad Buchan, or real Aberdeen-
shire, and this dialect is much the same as it was forty years ago.
There is nothing peculiar in the popular customs, games, and
amusements which prevail in this district.  The habits of the
people are sober and industrious, and, as far as their circumstances
will admit, cleanly in the highest degree.  In their style and manner
of dress, there has been of late years a marked improvement.  The
principal food of the peasantry consists of bread made of oatmeal,
pottage, brose, milk, and potatoes.  Scotch kale or cabbage, which
at one period constituted an essential part of the food of the lower
orders, is not now in very general use.  The people, notwith-
standing the pressure of the times, are contented and happy,
of a social and obliging disposition, shrewd and intelligent, re-
gular in their attendance upon public worship, and the ordinan-
ces of religion, as well as in the performance of the duties of
life.  Strangers to that fanaticism which acts as a nurse to sedi-
tion, and that pharisaical hypocrisy which serves as a cloak to the

<FOOTNOTE>These numbers refer to the year 1835, since which time there may be a slight
alteration.
          Mr Gordon died in the end of last year, and his establishrnent is about to be
broken up.-January 1840.


