
                      LONGSIDE.                          869

all the three  may amount to L.70.  The teacher at Longside has
the legal accommodation.  The school fees, payable quarterly,
are, English reading, 2s. ; English reading with writing, En-
glish reading, writing, and arithmetic, 4s.; English reading, writ-
ing, and arithmetic, with Latin, 5s. ; with Greek, 7s. ; mathe-
matics and geography, 10s. ; book-keeping, 10s. 6d.
   Most of the youth between six and fifteen years of age can read
and write, or are learning to do so.  There are scarcely any up-
wards of fifteen who cannot read and write.  The people, in ge-
neral, are much alive to the benefits of education.  As one proof
of this, it may be mentioned, that they erected, at their own ex-
pense, the parochial schools at Mintlaw and Rora, and the unen-
dowed schools at Dens and Lenabo, while a part of them pay a
salary, besides fees, to the scboolmistress in Longside.
   Literature.-There is a small library at Rora, and another for
the Sabbath school at Longside.  Some of the people subscribe
to libraries in Old Deer and Peterbead.
   Friendly Societies.-Several of these had existed subsequently
to the former Statistical Account, but being formed on imperfect
data, and meeting with losses at the stoppage of the manufactories
they were dissolved.  In 1809, there was instituted, or rather
revived, at Nether Kinmundy, of this parish, a society for mutual
benefit in case of sickness, and for defraying funeral expenses,
remarkable for the simplicity of its plan, and the advantages it
continues steadily to afford.  No accumulating fund is kept, but
6d. is received from each member and lodged with the treasurer,
and, out of this collection, sick and superannuated allowances are
paid till the money is expended, when a fresh collection is made.
A regular certificate of age must be produced, and no one is ad-
mitted a member under eighteen or above forty-five years old.  If the
age exceeds thirty-five, instead of 6d. on admission, 1s. must be paid.
A sick member receives 2s. a-week for the first six weeks of his
illness, and 1s. a-week for the next seven, when, if he continue
unable to work, he is considered superannuated, and receives 6d.
a-week.  When a member or his wife dies, each, surviving mem-
ber contributes 1s. towards the payment of the funeral expenses.
On admission, various other regulations are agreed to, which tend
to maintain the usefulness of the institution.  A society of Odd
Fellows has lately been set on foot, and, being founded on a surer
basis than most of the old societies, bids fair to afford more per-
manent advantage.


