

62                         ROXBURGHSHIRE

knee to Baal, and to put their sacrifies into earthen vessels," the
tradition mingling with the knowledge of a better faith.
  A stone with a Latin inscription, which was lately dug up in
this parish, and which is now in the possession of the family of
Drygrange, seems to have formed a part of a Roman altar.  In the
inscription it is dedicated to the god Silvanus by Cirius Domi-
tianus of the Twentieth Lefion, "pro salute et suorum."  The
Romans having never been so far north before Domitian nor after
Severus, the inscription must belong to the second century.
The country must have been a forest, else why the dedication to
Sivanus? and unhealthy, else why the expression "pro salute sua
et suorum." *
   Modern Buildings.--In the vicinity of the Tweed, and within
the bounds of this parish, there are about fifteen villas and consi-
derable mansion-houses, of which Abbotsford in the west is not
less famous for its present, than, in the east, Old Melrose is for its
ancient glory.  The materials employed in building are sandstone
from Dryburgh, Belses, and Sprouston, the coarse puddingstone
of the neighbouring quarry-hill, and the greywacke, which is wide-
ly diffused over the country.  There are within the parish four
corn mills; of these the two principal are upon a lead said to be

of monastic antiquity, which, leaving the Tweed above Melrose,
returns to it below Newstead, insulating a richflat called the Ana.

                       III.--POPULATION
  There are no accounts of the state of the population of this pa-
rish before the census of 1801.  There are in the parochial re-
sisters some tables of births of an earlier date; but the result is
so surprisingly irregular, that it affords no certain data for drawing
an inference.  The amount of the population was found to be

<TABLE>
                 In  1801               2654
                     1811               3132
                     1821               3525
At that time of the census in 1831, the amount of the popu-

<FOOTNOTE>The high and exposed situation of the  place where the stone was discovered
seems to indicate that at the time at which such a spot was chosen for a Roman mi-
litary to indicate that at the country must have been very different from what it
bouring heights by any weapon used  might be found nor commanded from the neigh-
lake in the second century, as hydrographical appearances show that it must have been
before the formation of the narrow outlet at Tweedwood; or an unwholesome
swampy forest, like those of the American wastes, where the Roman soldier would
sink in mud to the knee whilst forcing his way trough the loathsome underwood,
and the ague, the once, prevailing disease of the country, would subdue his strength
and quench his ardour?  With this hypothetical, it is curious to compare the actual
state o the country, richly cultivated, healthful. and populous, covered over with
villas, villages, and corn fields, the effect of human industry and time.


