
                         BLAIR-ATTIOLL.                         577

tations, and the regular rotation of cropping, have greatly changed
as it were the face of the country.
     The Royal Mail from Perth to Inverness leaves letter-bags at
Blair post-office every day, and the receipts for postages are con-
siderable.
     In their dress, as well as in their domestic economy, the people
exhibit a very favourable change. In the houses of the peasantry,
there is a much greater attention paid to the simple comforts of life.
And the cloths and muslins of the south have superseded the coarse
expensive manufacture of the country. Schools are more nume-
rous, newspapers are abundant, and general knowledge is more
widely diffused. The acquaintance of the people with the Scrip-
tures, and their serious respect and regular observance of the or-
dinances of religion, sufficiently testify that they are not indiffe-
rent to a knowlege of the truth as it is in Christ Jesus.
     Extensive plantations towards Strowan would beautify and im-
prove that naked tract of country.  A good road across Sliabh-
bac would be highly beneficial, shorten and facilitate an inter-
course with the southern districts of the country. And the great-
est disadvantage under which this extensive parish labours is the
want of divine service every Sabbath day in both its churches. The
imperfect system of occasional public worship is the greatest evil
and defect in our Ecclesiastical Establishment. It holds out every
encouragement to ignorant and wandering sectarian preachers, or it
is apt to confirm a people in habits of indifference to the habitations
of religion. And if the labours of a minister could be regularly se-
cured for the congregation of the church of Strowan, by which
that of Blair would be no less benefited, it would greatly contribute
to the well-being and spiritual comfort of a people, who are obliged,
as it were, to forsake the assembling of themselves together on every
Lord's day, and thus to devote publicly unto the Lord only a third,
of those days which he hath sanctified, and blessed to be a holy
Sabbath unto himself.

June 1838

PERTH.


