

               KILNINVER AND KILMELFORT.                      63

arch, 72 feet wide and 27 feet above the highest water-mark, and
admits vessels of -about twenty tons burden. At both ends of the
Sound, which is north and south, there is good and safe anchorage-
Viewing the whole from the sea, it exhibits a most delightful and
picturesque scenery..
  Lochmelfort gives a sea coast of upwards of six miles, indented
with large and beautiful bays. The hill ranges on both sides are
higher than the coast of Lochfeuchan; but the shore, for the most
part, is sandy, and well adapted to fishing stations.
   There is a cave on the north shore, which tradition says afforded
shelter to the first settlers, until they procured more comfortable
accommodation. It is so remote, and so thickly surrounded with
Woods, that detection is scarcely possible. Some years ago, smug-
glers made it their head-quarters; and one of them, at least, made
a large fortune by illicit distillation, and was never discovered.
Climate, &c.-The temperature of the atmosphere is remarka-
bly wild, but the weather is exceedingly changeable. The pre-
vailing winds are the soutb, south-west, and west.
   During the months of July, August, and September, the wea-
ther is generally rainy, which, though highly- favourable to the
grazier in the upper parts of the parish, yet proves prejudicial to
the interests of the agriculturist, whose loss is greater in propor-
tion to his industry in raising early and heavy crops. During
this period, and generally throughout the year, when rain is near,
the mountains of Jura, Scarba, and Mull in the distance, give
timeous warning of its approach, by enveloping their summits in
mist; and whatever indications of fair weather the general aspect.
of the sky may present, those more immediately concerned sel-
dom mistake the prognostications of these splendid and time-set
barometers.
  In March and October, easterly winds prevail for some weeks.
The weather is dry, but unhealthy, and is not less injurious to
Vegetation than it is unpleasant to the human frame.
  Moist as the climate is, and variable as the weather generally is,-
to the natives at least it is salubrious; and the most convincing proof
of this is their longevity. There are at present, living in the parisb,
five individuals, whose united ages amount to 453 years. The only
distempers which can be attributed to the influence of climate
are, colds, asthma, and rheumatism, which, are rather prevalent
Among old people. It is observed that they are less hardy,and
more subject to diseases, since the Highland dress was laid aside.


