
                        KENMORE.                               485

rural situation and for a rural population, and to permit entry to
be made to no cottage but according to certain known rules, and
with the cognizance, if not the written consent, of tbe landlord.
Under some such management the happiest results might, in pro-
cess of time, be. expected; and, in particular, the peasantry would
be trained, in early life, to turn their eyes elsewhere than to the
narrow limits of their natal soil for a home, and to learn the whole-
some lesson that it was the duty of at least many of the young
to betake themselves to other scenes, where their industry and
talents would be abundantly in demand.
   Fairs.-The only place in the parhrh where fairs are held is
the village of Kenmore; and of these there are in the course of
the year the six following: 1. The first Tuesday of March, O. S.
for horses and general business. 2. The 28th June, for general
business. 3. The 26th July, for wool and horses. 4. The 17th
September, for cattle and country produce. 5. The Friday, of
November before last Doune tryst, for cattle and general business.
6. The 22d December for country produce.
   Inns.-The principal inn is that of Kenmore, so well-known as
not to require any particular account or commendation: the only
other inn is that of Lawers, midway between Kenmore and, Killin,
known by the name of Croft-House.  There is not a single pub-
lic-house in the parish.
   Distillery.-- There is only one establishment for the distillation
of whisky in the parish, and indeed in Breadalbane.   It is a still
of 150 gallons;  uses about 700 bolls of barley, or i rather bear in
the year, producing about 7000 gallons of spirit; and pays about
L. 855 of duty in that period.
   Fuel.-The principal fuel is peat, which we procure at a vast
expense of time and labour.  The average distance of the bogs is
two miles.   It is difficult to give a definite idea of the expense;
but it may be confidently said that, if the time and labour bestowed
in working and bringing  home the production werd estimated, at
their proper value, our peat fires are as costly to us as are their
coals to those who are twenty or thirty miles from the pit.   It
were a welcome boon, indeed, if the instrument for peat making
invented by Lord Willoughby D'Eresby, and exhibited at the
meeting of the Highland Society at Dumfries in 1887 should be
found to answer the purspose.   Wood for fuel may be from
the thinnings of the Taymouth plantations, and are logging of
trees felled for timber.   By a few families coals are brought to


