
252                          FIFESHIRE.

grazed; and it is within the last three years, that these have been
introduced; they are all of the Cheviot breed. About 360 are
purchased annually, about the month of July, and sold again at
different times, according as they advance to condition for the
shambles, till the whole be sold off, to give place for a new lot at
the usual time of purchasing. Thev have been found a profitable
species of stock. On the farm alluded to, the number is on the
increase, and though the parish be rather adapted to corn growing
than grazing, yet the success of the experiment already made, is so
decided, and so well known, that that species of stock is likely to
become more numerous in the parish.
   Botany.--There is a great variety of plants, among which the
rarer species are the Imperatoria ostruthium (at Camilla ruins;)
Gagea lutea, Petasites albus, Saxifraga umbrosa, Viola odorata,
( Auchtertool Linn.) A few trees, scattered throughout the parish,
are to be seen, but not the semblance of a plantation. However, as
that species of improvement has lately advanced to the very boun-
daries of the parish, it is to be hoped that it will not stop there.
There are many places within its bounds which invite the planter,
encouraging him by holding out to view an improvement both pro-
fitable and ornamental. There is little doubt that the capability
of these grounds will in course draw the attention of the Noble pro-
prietor, whose taste, like that of his noble ancestors, for both useful
and ornamental improvements (particularly plantation) is so ap-
parent in other parts of his extensive domains.

                   II-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Land-owners.--With the exception of three portions of land
held in feu from Lord Moray, amounting to twenty acres or there-
about, the Earl of Moray and Captain Erskine Wemyss are the
only land-owners in the parish.
   Parochial Registers.--These extend as far back as 1670; but
till within the last fifty or sixty years, they have been very irregu-
larly kept.
   Modern Buildings.--There none in the parish worthy of
particular remark. The church and manse will be noticed under the
head Ecclesiastical State. All the other houses in the parish are
of no ancient date, and consist of farms, villagers and cottagers'
houses, and a corn mill, which are all built with stone and lime.
Till within the last forty or fifty years, there was but one house in
the parist covered with blue slate; the rest were generally covered
with wheat, straw, a few with tile, and one with gray slate. Most


