
                      GIGHA AND CARA.                     399

Numerous rolled stones of hornblende are found in the ground,
and near the surface, two and three feet in diameter.  The great-
est part of them could be removed on a sledge by a pair of horses.
In general the soil is not deep, tbough the quality is good, and in
many situations the rock is so near the surface, that it is not so easy
to drain the sand as thoroughly as could be wished.  The land,which
rests on felspar, is particularly difficult to drain, the rock being near
the surface, itself almost impervious to water.  Many fields stand
much in need of draining, though there are abundance of stones
in the land itself, which are at present cumbering the ground.  At
a former period, much had been done in the island in the way of
draining, blasting rocks, and building dikes, but a great deal re-
mains yet to be done, and there is no doubt but the grateful soil
would make an ample return for any labour and expense that
might be judiciously bestowed upon it.
  Fishes.-Cod, and ling, and large haddocks are found on the
banks, two or three miles from the two ends of the island.  Mac-
kerel, sea perch, rock cod, lythe, seythe, and cuddies around near
the coast.
  The banks of shells and shell sand which are found in the bays
show that, at no very remote period, large oysters abounded along
the coast, but the species is now nearly extinct here.  The large
dog welk, called buckie, is found in vast quantities on the banks
between the island and the mainland.  It is the bait used in the
cod and ling fishing.  This year, twenty boats, having each from
800 to 1000 books, which require to be baited, if possible, every
day, were engaged in this fishing.  Hence it is evident that the
quantity needed is very great.  Creels, in form like the wire mouse-
trap, having heads or entrails of fish in them, are sunk on the
banks, and are emptied of the buckies which enter them as often
as may be.
  The extensive surface of rock exposed through this island is
crusted over with various species of lichen, such as the Sphærophe-
ron, Sticta Ramalina, Parmelia, and Lecanora.The three
last afford valuable dyes.  Thdse lichens, in the course of time,
form a crust, which affords shelter and sustenance to the roots of
the juniper and stunted heaths which grow upon the rocks.  The
juniper abounds on the east coast, and bears numerous clusters of
berries, which become ripe in July and August.  When put into
whisky, the berries give it much of the colour and taste of gin,
and they are said to add to its diuretic quality ; and, therefore,


