
                     DUTHIL.-ROTHIEMURCHUS.                      141

nity, fled from the field of Culloden and concealed himself for many
years  in the forest of Glenmora and Rothiemurchus, whence
at length he effected his escape to France, where he died.  Some
of his descendants yet live in this parish, and retain the affection-
ate remembrance of acts of kindness shown them by their relative
while an axile and in the service of the King of France.
     Land-owners.--Sir J. P. Grant, Knight, Puisne Judge at Cal-
cutta, is the sole proprietor of the parish; a gentleman of acknow-
ledged talent, and eminent for his services in the cause of civil
liberty.  When acting in the capacity of judge at Bombay, he
supported the dignity of the Bench by asserting, in opposition to
the then governor, Sir John Malcolm, the rights of the native po-
pulation as British citizens, to the privileges conferred by law.
as he could not conform to the despotic views of the reigning go-
verment, he resigned his office, but was a few years thereafter re-
stored to the Bench, (where he now sits,) by a succeeding govern-
ment.

     Parochial Registers.--The earliest entries for both baptisms
and marriages are in the year 1774.  The registers have been
always kept distinct from those of Duthil, but have not been re-
gularly kept till within the last dozen years.
     Antiquities.--The Castle of Loch-an-Eilean is the only anti-
quity in the parish.  It stands upon an island evidently artificially
formed in a part of the lake of great depth.  The remains of a
path-way from the mainland are easily traced.  The records of the
family now in possession of the property, speak of it as a ruin two
centuries ago; and the date of its erection; indeed, the purposes
for which it was originally built, are hid in obscurity, anti-
quarians disputing whether it was intended as a stronghold or
a religious house.  Tradition refers it to the era of the Cum-
mings, as one of their houses of retreat, during the early feudal
broils.
     Modern Buildings.--The mansion-house at the Doune, the re-
sidence of the proprietor, is the only building of note in the parish.
It is a modern building without architectural pretensions, pleasant-
ly situated on the banks of the river Spey, surrounded by shrubberies
of great taste, and the policies around beautifully wooded.  No situa-
tion on the banks of the Spey possesses greater attraction.  The
garden, placed at a short distance from the mansion, in a deep dell
among rich plantations, has had its natural features much improv-
ed through the taste of the late Duke of Bedford and his amiable









