
                               CERES.                             521

land, or for building, and is shipped in considerable quantities from
the adjoining ports.
     3.There is the Teasses white limestone quarry.  The lime-
stone is 10 feet 6 inches thick, and divided into five beds. Its
colour is whitish gray, and there would thus seem to be a regu-
lar progress in changing the colour from Tequliats quarry. This
white limestone is very compact and difficult to work,-organic re-
mains very scarce. The dip is 1 fathom in 5 to S. E. The strata
above it are 5 feet of inferior limestone, containing a large portion
of argillaceous matter, 14 feet of shale, 7 feet of sandstone, and
20 feet of ferruginous basalt, disposed in irregular columns or
blocks. This limestone is wrought under ground. The pillars
are about 6 feet, and 10 feet between them. It was previously
wrought by tirring, but has been worked under ground for thirty-
two years. Eight men are generally employed. They enjoy excel-
lent health. Indeed, there is something wholesome in the air un-
der ground; and more than one martyr to hooping cough have been
sent by their physician, to keep company with the workmen,
for greater part of a day, in the hope of curing them. The result
was generally favourable. About 4000 bolls of this limestone
are turned out in the year,-it is used for purifying gas, for bleach-
ing and plastering, as well as for land.
     There is a great similarity between the three limestones already
mentioned. They are all about one thickness; their structure
and fracture resemble each other; the strata above them are si-
milar, and the organic remains are the same; and in all proba-
bility, they are the same bed of limestone, thrown up successively
by faults, passing parallel to their line of bearing. The Teuchats
limestone appears at Craighall, and has been worked there; and
bearing west a little, it trends round in a semicircular form to Ceres
toll-bar, where it is lost sight of. There is a thin coal found
under it. The limestone here dips north. It was attempted to be
wrought, by mining it under the trap hill. They had not, how
ever, proceeded many yards, when the limestone was found to be
broken in masses, and full of fissures filled with ferruginous de-
composed trap, and so much altered as to be unfit for use. The
roof, though composed of firm shale, could not be supported, from
the shattered state of the limestone left as pillars. The mining
became dangerous, and was consequently abandoned.
     4. The limestone is also wrought at Ladedda; it gets flat here, or
assumes the basin form. It is seen on the north side of Ladedda Hill,


