
846                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

unfortunate and destitute poor are now in the Lunatic Asylum of
Aberdeen, and occasion a heavy expense upon these parishes.
   Library, &c.-A parish library has been instituted in the village
of Tarland ; and a Savings' Bank, (under the patronage of the Earl
of Aboyne,) has been in operation for six years past.  It is intended
for the accommodation 4nd advantage of the labouring classes.
It consists of monthly deposits, none exceeding L.10 Sterling;
and when such deposits amount to L.60, the same are to be with-
drawn.  The stock now amounts to L.500 Sterling.

   August 1842.

                        PARISH OF CLATT.

            PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

              THE REV. ROBERT COOK, A. M. MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name Clatt, or, as it was formerly written, Clet
or Clett, is obviously derived from the Gaelic word Cleith, pro-
nounced Cleit, which signifies concealed.  This etymology of the
word is in strict accordance with the locality of the parish.  It is
concealed from the view on every side.
   Situation.-This parish is situated in the western extremity of
Garioch,-one of the five divisions or districts of the county of
Aberdeen.
   Extent.-It is about 4 English miles in length, and varies from
2 to 3 English miles in breadth, comprehending a space of nearly
9 square miles.
   Boundary.-It is bounded on the west by the parish of Au-
chindoir, in the lower district of Marr; on the north, by the Wa-
ter of Bogie, which separates it from the parish of Rhynie ; on the
east, by the parishes of Kennethmont and Leslie; and on the
south, by the Suie and Coreen Hills, forming part of a mountain
range that extends from east to west upwards of twenty miles.
With the exception of those parts which lie on the declivity of the
southern boundary, and some rising grounds on the north-west,
the parish of Clatt forms an uninterrupted plain ; and, from the
centre, the spectator has a distinct view of nearly its whole extent.
                               3


