
524                       ARGYLESHIRE.

once the seat of the Pictish and Scottish princes; here for a long
time was preserved the famous stone, the palladium of Scotland,
brought, as the legend has it, from Spain.  It was afterwards re.
moved by Kenneth the Second to Scone, and is now in West-
minster Abbey, brought thither by King Edward I."
  The castle is of a square form, 87 feet within the wells, having
round towers at three of the angles.  The average height of the
walls is 66 feet; 9 in thickness.  The external measurement of
the walls amounts to 270 feet.  The circumference of the rock on
which it stands is 300 feet.  It has its entrance from the sea by a
staircase, but it is supposed that in former ages this was by means
of a drawbridge.  Only part of the building is habitable, the rest
of it being in ruins.  The masonry is considered as very ancient.
At the distince of about 400 feet from the castle are the remains
of a chapel, formerly appropriated to the religious services of its
inmates.  This in length is 78 feet, in height 14, and in breadth
26 feet.
   It is said that some of the ancient regalia were preserved here.
Pennant has given a drawing of a small ivory figure found here,
which, he thinks, "was certainly cut in memory of the celebrated
chair, and appears to have been an inauguration sculpture: a crown-
ed monarch is represented sitting in it with a book, 'rather a
scroll,' in one hand, as if going to take the coronation oath."
   About the year 843 Kenneth McAlpine transferred the seat of
government to the palace of Forteviot in Perthshire.  We lose
sight of Dunstaffnage for several centuries, till it again rises tip to
view, during the eventful reign of Robert Bruce.  It was then
possessed by Alexander of Argyle, father of John), "the Lord of
Lorn." *
  From the evidence of old charters, the castle and lands of Dun-
staffinage were, A. D. 1436, granted to Dugald, Son of Colid, Knight
of lochaw, the direct ancestor of the family in whose possession,
as "Captains of Dunstaffnage," it has remained to the present
day.  Dunstaffnage continued to be carefully Maidtained as the
principal stronghold of the clan Campbell in this part of Argyle-
shire, as a defence against the incursions of the warlike and hostile
clans in the Isles and the nortb, down to the Rebellions in 1715
and 1745, when it was garrisoned by the royal forces.  Among
the various interesting relies of antiquity now at Dunstaffnage, may
be mentiond the ivory image, and battle axe described by Pennant,
and the spurs and stirrups of Robert Bruce.

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Browne's Views of the Royal Palaces of Scotland.


