

        1254                           PERTHSHIRE.

         formerly they were more abundant, yet the floods in spring,
         Summer, and autumn, still encourage considerable numbers of ex-
         cellent salmon, weighing from 6 to 25 lbs., and grilses from 5 to
         7. or 8 lbs., to frequent the river.  A considerable improve.
         ment has recently taken place by the protection given to the
         smoults during the months of May and June, when they descend
         in shoals to the sea.
            Common and sea-trout are plentiful, and a few perch and pike
         are occasionally to be found.  There are two species of eels, the
         lamprey and common eel, and parr, minnow, loacb, and stickle-
         back are numerous.
            Verv few salmon resort ta the Forth on account of the impure
         and mossy nature of its waters; but pike, perch, and large eels
         are abundant.   Common trout are rarely seen in the lower parts
         of the Forth, but higher up they are numerous and excellent, and
         in the Goodie, one of its tributaries, which issues frotn the locb of
         Monteith, the fine red trout which inhabits that loch is to be
         found.
            The muscle that produces pearls (Mya Margaritifera) is com-
         mon in the Teith, and the size and value of the pearls have oc-
         casionally been considerable; but they are not found in such
         numbers as to remunerate the search.       -
            The families of insects in this parish are numerous, varied, and
         beautiful, but do not in general differ from those that are to be
         found in all the district.  It would, however, be an omission, not
         to mention a beautiful specimen of the death's-bead motb, which
         was found on one of the south windows of the church of Kincar-
         dine in 1834, and is preserved, the body measuring 2 1/2 inches
         long, 2 inches in circumference at the insertion of the wings, and
         1 3/4 inch at the middle; the wings being 5/8 ths of an inch broad,
         and 4 hnches from tip to tip when moderately extended.  The
         figure of the deatb's-head, which gives the name to the insect, is
         half am inch long, and very distinctly marked.  The down of the
         insect is perfectly beautiful.  It emitted, when caught, a shrill
         sound resembling, that of a mouse or bat.  It did not verify the
         common superstition, by preceding the cholera in this district.
           It may also be proper to mention the glow-worm here, which
         the writer has found in a warm sheltered locality near the manse.
         This beautiful visitant, however, is but seldom seen here.
           Botany--The woods and plantations of this parish are com-


