
     of Carmichael.

upon the top of which is a large cain, or heap of stones,
how collected, or for what purpose, it is impossible to say.
Upon the south side, and at no great distance from the
summit, is a spring of good water*.  The soil is very va-
rious; towards the Clyde, it is in general thin, fandy, and
dry.  The S. W. and southern parts, where arable, are
clayey and wet.  Situated so high, and in the immediate
neighbourhood of so many hills, the climate is cold and
wet.  It is, however, not unhealthy, few epidemical di-
stempers prevail here, and some persons have lived in this
parish to a great age.  There are in it at present, several
above 80, and 2 in their 92 d year, one of whom, an heri-
tor, retains the entire use of his faculties, is cheerful and
contented, walks about, and amuses himself in his garden.

   Earl of Hyndford, bis Plantations, etc.-In this parish
was born John, third Earl of Hyndford, who in the years
1739 and 1740, was Commissioner to the General Assem-
bly of the Church of Scotland.  In 1741, upon the King
of Prussia's invading Silcsia, he was sent as Envoy Extra-
ordinary and Plenipotentiary to that Prince, and the year
after accommodated the differences which had occasioned
the war.  Upon the conclusion of the treaty of Breslaw,
he was created a Knight of the Thistle, and as a testimony

<FOOTNOTE>

*The highest point of the cairn is above the Clyde about a mile
N. E. from the bottom of the mountain, 1740 feet; above the Clyde, at
the bridge of Lanark, 2050 1/2 feet; and at the old bridge of Glasgow,
2351 1/2 feet.  So that from opposite to the N. E. part of Tinto to Glas-
gow, a distance of little more than 30 miles, the clyde falls 611 1/2 feet.
About half a mile from the west end of this range of hills, there is a 
passage through it, which has much the appearance of being, although
not wholly formed, yet greatly assisted by art.  For a considerable way,
the passage is little more than 7 feet wide, the mountain rising sheep on
each side; and the north end there are little hills, which seems, as if
carried from the middle, to make the passage easier.


