
     Statistical Account

tion.  Mr Whitefield, who was accustomed to numerous audiences, sup-
posed, that at the three tents, there were upwards of 30,000 people; a
greater number probably than was ever seen on any other sacramental occa-
sion.  Most of the above mentioned ministers and others were assistants
at this solemnity.  Four preached on the fast-day, 4 on Saturday,
probably 14 or 15 on Sunday, and 5 on Monday.  There were 25 ta-
bles, about 120 at each, in all 3000 communicants.  A great many
of these came from Glasgow and the neighbourhood, about 200 from
Edinburgh, about 200 from Kilmarnock, about 200 from Irvine and
Stewarton, and some from England and Ireland.  "But," says Mr
M'Culloch, "what was most remarkable was the spiritual glory of this
"solemnity; I mean the gracious and sensible presence of God.  Not
"a few were awakened to a sense of sin, and their lost and perishing
"condition without a Saviour; others had their bands loosed, and were
"brought into the marvellous liberty of the sons of God.  Some decla-
"red that they would not for a world have been absent from this so-
"lemnity.  Others cried, now let thy servants depart in peace from this
"place, since our eyes have seen thy salvation here."  The Cambuslang
work continued for about 6 months, that is, from the 18th February till
the second communion.  Few or none were convicted or converted
after this last period.  The daily preachings and exhortations, except
the weekly lecture, ceased.  Public worship, however, was kept in the open
fields till the month of November, when the inclemency of the weather
rendered it necessary to repair to the kirk.  The number of persons
convicted and converted during this period, cannot be ascertained with
accuracy.  The former are said to have been by far the greatest number.
In a letter of Mr M'Culloch's to Mr Robe, dated 30th April 1751, af-
ter acknowledging and bewailing the many backfliders, he asserts, that
he had then in his possession a list of about 400 awakened at Cambuslang
in 1742, who from that time to the time of their death, or the date of
his letter, had been enabled to behave in a good measure as became the
gospel.  About 70 of these 400 were or had been inhabitants of Cam-
buslang.
   After the 1748, some day about the 18th of February was observed
yearly, in commemoration of this extraordinary work.  "It was obser-
"ved," as Mr M'Culloch expresses it, in the papers which he read from
the pulpit on these occasions, "partly as a day of thanksgiving for the
"remarkable season of grace to many in the British colonies, and par-
"ticularly in this small corner, in the years 1741 and 1742; and partly
"as a day of humiliation and fasting for misimprovement of mercies;
"and especially for the backslidings of many, who then showed a more


