
812			   PERTHSHIRE.

ning to be overgrown with ivy, and presents a picturesque appear-
ance.*
  Notices of the Ministers of Dunbarny since the Reformation.-
1. Mr Patrick Wemyss was minister of Dunbarny, Potty, and Mon-
crieffe in 1,569, and probably the first minister placed at Dunbarny
subsequent tn the Reformation. His stipend is stated in the Re-
gister of Ministers, Readers, and their Stipends, printed for the
Maitland Club, to have been L.100 (Scots), "now is provded to
the kirk of Dumberny, and instantly gettis the thryd thereof, ex-
tending to L.60, and also to 4 chaplanriis, quhilk will extend to
L.40." In 1594, his name appears at the beginning of the
oldest session register of baptisms, which commences in 1594.
In 1599, his stipend is stated to be, "thrid of the personage of
Dumberny Paty, and Moncrief, iclxxxli. (i.e. L.180), with manse
and gleib, with the haill vicarage thairof lxli." (i. e. L.60 Scots.)
In 1607, besides the above, there is added "the haill vicarage of
Dron, with the thrid of the chaplanries of Dunkeld, called St Ni-
nians and St Peter in Perth, xv. li. viiis. xd.," (i. e. L.15, 8s.
10d. Scots.) Mr Wemyss was living in 1611, when he was pre-
sent at the diocesan synod at St Andrews; but in 1614 and 1615,
the church is not mentioned in the books of assignation.
  It is proper to notice here the following statements, viz. & "An-
dro Disart, reidar," (at Moncrieffe, i. e. at the old chapel of Mon-
crieffe, where public worship seems to have been conducted then),

<FOOTNOTE>In an historical account of the internal government of the borough of Perth from
1745 to 1785, submitted to the Committee of Bonvention by the committee for the
guildry of Perth, the following notice of the old bridge occurs: "By an act of James
VI. the borough of Perth have right to a certain pontage at the Bridge of Earn,
with the burden of upholding the bridge. Some years ago an arch of the bridge was
thought insufficient, and was taken down. It was an arch not above 30 feet wide,
but the building of it cost the town considerably more than L.3000 Sterling, although
a complete new bridge over the same river, about six miles above, (viz. Bridge of
Forteviot), was done by subscription for L.500 Sterling. This was not all,-for the
county, before the arch was taken down, offered to take the Lurden on them, in all
time coming, on being allowed the pontage. The town's managers refused that, and
they draw about L.60 a year for it. If this was prudent management the disinte-
rested will judge."
  The following notice of the old bridge is extracted from a MS. in the Advocates'
Library, Edinburgh:-
  "22d January 1614. Being Saturday, the northmost pend and bow of the Bridge
of Erne fell down, being evil bigged from the beginning, filled only with clay and
earth, and without any blind pend, as the Brig of Tay has been in the same manner
formerly bigged of old. The burgh and shire, with all diligence, caused David Jack
and David Mill, craftsmer, put up the same vith timber-work."
  "Ane obligatune quyle he gets full payment of the personage," i.e. parsonage.
   Extracted from the Book of Assignation and Modification of Minister's Sti-
pends, preserved in the general Register House, Edinburgh.
   Register of Ministers, Readers. 4to, printed for Maitland Club.


