
              72                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

              each.  The collections at church, in their behalf, may amount to
              L.24 or L.30 a-year.
                Fairs.-- We have two public fairs held, each year, in the months
              of March and July.
                Fuel.    The principal fuel used by the poor, are, peats, turf, the
              roots of broom, branches of trees, and some coals. Coals are al-
              ways used by the more wealthy portion of the inhabitants,-for
              which they pay from 1s. 6d. to 2s. the Scots barrel, or from 1s. to
              1s. 2d. the imperial barrel.  The coals are brought from Newcastle.

                          PARISH OF LOCHBROOM.
                    PRESBYTERV OF LOCHCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                    THE REV.  THOMAS ROSS, LL.D. MINISTER.

                        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
               Name, Situation, and Extent.--THE parish of Lochbroom de-
            rives its name from a fresh water lake of about 3 Scotch miles in
            length, and 1 in breadth, at the distance of from 12 to 15 miles
            from the sea,-which, being surrounded by high hills, and conse-
            quently much visited by the moisture of the passing clouds, is
            known by the very characteristic appellation of Loch-a' Bhraoin,
            or the Lake of Showers; Brauon, or Braom, in Gaelic, signifying
            a shower, or drizzle of rain.  The same name of Broom is, from
            this lake, also communicated to the river, which flows from it
            through a considerable part of the parish, and to the great arm of
            the sea into which that river falls near the parish church.
              The parish is bounded on the west by the channel called the
            Minsh, which separates the island of Lewis from the mainland of
            Scotland.    It has the arish of Assint on the north; the parishes
            of Kincardine and Contin on the east; and the parish of Gairloch
            on the South.
              The figure of the parish is exceedingly irregular, a great part
            of it consisting of a variety of promontories of very different ex-
            tent and appearance, and separated from each other by lochs and
            creeks and inlets of the sea.  The distance, in a straight line, be-
            tween the extreme points of the western boundary, is not more
            than from 22 to 24 miles, yet within that space of direct latitude
            there are included above 100 miles of shore washed by the ocean.


