
	               STRAITON.                             343

Blair. In ancient times the church was dedicated to St Cuth-
bert.* Duncan, Earl of Carrick, in the reign of Alexander II.
granted it to the monks of Paisley. It was afterwards transferred
to the monastery of Crossraguel. Robert Bruce confirmed this
transfer. At the Reformation the patronage became vested in
the Crown. The church accommodates only 414 persons, at the
usual allowance for a sitting, though in July the audience is often
considerably greater. There are fifty sittings in the communion
seats at the disposal of the session. The church is more than eight
miles from one extremity of the parish, and more than twelve miles
from the other. Before the building nf Patna village, it was in the
centre of the population, according to the sound principles laid
down by the ingenious author of the Manse Garden. There is
still no place where it could be properly fixed, except the present
site. The manse, which is a plain building, of the size common in
1795, when it was erected, is striking in situation, and is a pleasant
residence in summer. The glebe is between 7 and 8 acres in
extent, of the value of L. 16 yearly. The stipend is 15 chal-
ders, half meal, half barley, and has averaged for the last five years
L. 225. The sum of L. 8, 6s. Sd. is allowed for communion ele-
ments.
	There is no church or chapel except the parish church; but a
small chapel in connection with the Established Church, has just
been contracted for at Patna, and is to be finished in October
next. Since the year 1817, there has been public worship occa-
sionally at Patna by the parish ministers, and frequently since
1830, by preachers of the United Secession. There has been
regular service in different rooms of that village since last autumn,
both by the Church and the Secession. A free site for a chapel
of the Establishment was granted in June 1836, by the Honour-
able Mrs Leslie Cumming, and subscriptions have been collecting
since that time. The building will have no gallery, but will be
constructed to admit of one being added at any time. The popu-
lation that will be benefited by this chapel is at present 621, of
whom 411 are in Straiton parish, and 210 in the parishes of Dal-
mellington, Dalrymple, Kirkmichael, Ochiltree, and Coylton.
The whole of this population is from four to seven miles from any
church, and the case seems one that deserves as it needs the aid
of Government, under whose notice it has been brought through

		* Chalmers's Caledonia.


