
                                  LERWICK.                       5

	but the whole take from these was only 4872 barrels, and the her-
	ring-fishing last year was a total failure. The losses sustained by
	both curers and fishermen were consequently very severe, and have
	much damped the energies, and contracted the. means of both. It
	may be doubted if the Zetland fishermen yet understand the habits
	of the herring, or the best way of looking out for them; and it is
	matter of wonder, that greater exertions to procure some of the
	experienced fishermen from Scotland, to follow the herring fish-
	ing in Zetland, have not been made. Notwithstanding of the
	late failures, yet, as a large capital is invested in boats, nets, and
	materials, the fishing will, doubtless, be again attempted another
	year.
	   Navigation.-The number of vessels belonging to Lerwick is
         85. The amount of their tonnage, 3132.

	                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-From an account now taken, the number
	of families belonging to the Established Church in the town is
	458; in the landward distriet (in 1831) 80 families. And from
	an account now taken, the number of Dissenting or Seceding fa-
	milies, is 187.
	   About 40 families in the town may be said to attend no place
	of worship, being generally the most wretched, and standing most
	in need of Christian instruction. The usual excuse for non-atten-
	dance, is want of proper clothing, &c.
	   The stipend amounts to L.150, and L.8, 5s. 9d. is allowed fo-
	communion element. The stipend is made up thus: From the
	bishopric rents of Orkney, L.27, 15s. 6d.; from town of Lerwick,
         L.16, 3s. 4d.; from lands of landward district, L.23, 0s. 8/12.;
	from Exchequer under small stipend Act, L.90, 16s. 3d.; total,
	L.158, 5s. 9 1/2d.
	   There is neither manse nor glebe in the parish. The com-
	pensation paid by the heritors is L.50 per annum.
	   Education.-There are four schools conducted by male and
	by female teachers in the parish; and one additional for boys,
	and one for girls of the middle class of society, are required. Per-
	haps, a well conducted model-school, accessible to all teachers in
	Zetland, and the children of the parish, would be a very great ad-
	vantage. It is luckily now beginning to be perceived, that teach-
	ing is a profession requiring previous training; and, in the schools

        <FOOTNOTE>Lerwick being the seat of the Custom-house, all vessels belonging to Zetland
	are registered there.


