
     Of Markinch.

derable strength.  The time when it was built cannot be
exactly ascertained; but from the best information that can

     VOL. XII. 3 Z

<FOOTNOTE>

thom deep, where, in place of the rock and ordinary metals above the coal,
nothing but gravel was found; from which it may be concluded, that the dike
exceeds 100 fathoms in thickness, how much more, it is hard to say; at the
distance of another 100 fathoms, the edge metals are seen in this part of the
field also, which destroys every hope of the main coal being again found be-
yond the dike.  From what has appeared in the east of the field, it seems
pretty certain, that if the coal is found at all, it will be in the form of two
seams on edge, thrust suddenly up to the surface by these edge metals, and con-
sequently of small extent and little value.
   From what is above recited, it may be inferred, that it is not always safe to
trust to the dip side of a seam of coal being of value, though the crop has been
found good, which was the case here, the crop having been wrought for 40
years, and every where in the natural level found good, and yet the dip on the
west half of the field has been exhausted in less than 12 years, at least, all that
was found valuable in it; how long the dip of the east part of the field now
working may last, it is hard to say, though it is searce possible, allowing the
quality to be good through through the whole extent of the known field, that any coal
will remain to work 50 years hence.
   From the foregoing history of two valuable field of coal, and facts above re-
cited, some very important conclusions may be drawn, viz.
  1. The limited and small extent of coal fields.
  2. The increasing consumption of the coal and its limited extent, gives rea-
son to apprehend its being totally exhausted.
   The limited extent of all coal, may be inferred from its being impossible to
trace any, very far in the line of bearing.  Balgonie coal may be ranked a-
mong the regular ones, as the line of bearing is the same with the general bear-
ing of the strata in the greatest part of Britain, where they are not thrown out
of their course by adventitious causes, such as dikes, mountain rocks of a dif-
ferent species from the strata that accompany coal, and sometimes by the wav-
ing and twisting of the coal metals themselves, which frequently alter the line
of bearing, as well as the dip of the coal, to at the points of the compass.
Such regular seams as this, with so considerable a dip, may be thrown out of
their course by dikers and flips, but generally keep the same line of bearing.
The very flat seams, such as Balbirnie coal, being much more liable to wave
and twist, till the dip and crop are in the opposite direction from the regular
course of bearing.  It may be worth inquiry, why the most regular seams of
coal can be seldom pursued in the line of hearing above a few miles, for the


