
     Of Markinch.

this part of Fife, and that during the last seven years the coal
of Balgonie has also been wrought, and has supplied the coun-
try with 9000 tons annually, notwithstanding of which, the
consumption of this coal is continually on the increase*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since 1780, 3 water engines have been erected upon this coal.  The first
works 2 pumps, 14 inch working barrels; the second, 2 pumps of 11 inches dia-
meter; the third, 2 pumps 15 inch diameter, of the working barrel; and a-
bout 20 fathoms left from the coal, to a mine in which the water is delivered
5 fathoms below the surface of the ground.  Above the rock is gravel, which
admits the winter rains to pass through the numerous cutters in the strata,
conveys it down to the coal, and is the great cause of such powerful engines
being necessary to drain the coal.  It is a pretty general opinion, that all coals
are as good in quality, or better, in the dip than towards the crop.  Also, that
any coal once discovered, may be wrought to any depth from which it is pos-
sible to draw the water.  But what has recently happened in this very coal,
gives reason to believe that opinions, however general, to be erroneous; for,
when the engines were first erected, from the favourable appearance of the
surface of the ground, composed of flat and gently rising fields of vast extent,
and from the extreme flatness of the coal, which did not dip above 1 in 12, of-
ten not above 1 foot in 20, it had the appearance of being almost inexhaust-
able, or, at least, that the under level coal would be much more extensive than
the crop already wrought; but the very reverse of this was found to be the
case.  And engine erected at the trifling depth of 20 fathoms, in the short space
of 10 years from its erection, was found not only deep enough, but actually
deeper than any coal in that field.  In working up the engine level, it was
found to go deeper than any part of the coal:  dead water was kept till the coal
was found entirely cut off in the dip by a gravel dike, composed of gravel and 
large bullet whin stones, all of them rounded as if they had been long tossed
about in water.  The level was pushed on through this gravel, till it was found
impracticable to procced with safety to the workmen:  the coal was, therefore,
wrought along the side of this dike, as deep as there was any coal, and in the
progress of the work, the coal to the dip on the west side of the field, which
this engine was erected to drain, not only turned out to be of bad quality, but
its thickness was diminished by a hard stone which divided the seam in two,
extending from 1 to 4 feet in thickness, so hard as only to be wrought with
gunpowder; which added so much to the expense, that the coal could not be
wrought with profit, and was therefore abandoned altogether, and the third
engine erected on the E. part of the same coal where the seam was found 6


