
                                  EAGLESHAM.                        385

    ly regarded as forming one of the most striking indices of the wea-
    ther. When the appear near, a change is expected, when re-
    mote the weather is always dry.
       Hydrography.-This parish, with the parishes of Mearns and
    Neilston, contains the chief water heads of the rivulets which sup-
    ply the Cart, the great trough of the lower parts of Renfrewshire,
    Dear Paisley.  The Cart itself rises in the moors of Eaglesbarn
    and East Kilbride, and is supplied by five or six small tributaries
    running into it, all pursuing a north-east direction.  The course of
    the Cart is nearly north, till it arrives at Catheart and Langside,
    where it pursues a westerly course towards Paisley, and at that
    town it again takes a direction directly north, before losing itself
    in the Clyde.  This is termed the White Cart.  The Black Cart
    comes from the west of the county, and joins the White Cart at
    Inchirman Bridge, shortly before it joins the Clyde.  The Earn-
    water is a considerable stream on the north-west of the parish,
    falling into the Cari at a house termed St Helena; as it stands on
    a sort of island formed by the junction of the two waters, and a
    mill lead that joins them together.  The Kevoch burn, near the
    centre of the parish, is also a considerable stream.  The parish
    abounds everywhere in excellent springs.  Two of these are mine-
    ral.  One at Murizie hill, on the south side of the parish, is slight-
    ly.laxative; the other, at Bonninton, on the north side, has long
    been famous for the cure of muirill in cattle.    The most striking
    feature in the hydrography of this parish is the great extent of
    ground covered by reservoirs for the supply of the mills at Eagles-
    ham, Busby, Fenwick, &c.  Upwards of 237 acres are thus perma-
    nently inundated.  There `re no less than three lochs at Picket
    Law; a fourth on the lands of Dunwan, Greenfield, Brachead,
    and Holeball; a fifth on the lands of Dunwan, Blackwood, and
    Blackwood Hill; and a sixth at Binend.  The extent of ground
    covered by each is as follows

<TABLE>
                                                    Acres. Roods. Falls.
         1. Picket Law and Kirkton reservoirs,       26     3     6
         2. Dunwan, Greenfield, &c- reservoir,       64     3    36
         3. Dunwan, Blackwood, &c. reservoir,        96     0    31
         4. Binend Loch,                             50    0     7

                                          Total,     237    2     0
      These measurements do not contain the portion belonging to
      the Marquis of Hastings.
       Geoloqy and Mineralogy.-This parish constitutes a section of
     that great body of trap or greenstone, which extends through a
     large portion of the county  of Ayr, or from near Ardrossan on the


