
                            HUNTLY.                       1041

connected with it an Agricultural library, and an annual show of
cattle, with competition for prizes.
   	Manufactures, &c.--In regard to manufactures, there are none
in this parish worth naming. Formerly the manufacture of linen
was carried on in Huntly, to the extent of L.40,000 per annum;
and latterly, till within a year ago, there were about twenty or
thirty weavers in this trade employed by houses in Aberdeen; and
in the same way, emplovtnent in weaving worsted and in knitting
stockings was got for many of the old women in the parish; but the
former is entirely extinct, and the latter has also been withdrawn.
There is a bleachfield on the Bogie of extensive fame, and a con -
siderable run of trade; and a tan-work and distillery are in active
operation. In the town of Huntly, there are three banks, branches
of the North of Scotland, the Town and County, and Aberdeen
Banks; 27 merchants, including 2 hardware shops, and 6 for
cloths and haberdashery; 5 bakers, and 4 butchers. There is a
Gas Company also, which has been very successful in its operation,
as almost every house in the town is supplied with this most use-
ful light.

                         V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Town, &c.--The town of Huntly, which is a burgh of barony,
is built on what originally was a barren heath and marshy swamp.
It is now well drained, and its situation is peculiarly healthful, be-
ing sheltered from almost every wind by the surrounding hills.
The present population is about 2900. For its trade it depends
chiefly on the surrounding district of country; but it has exports
also to a very considerable extent in butter, cheese, eggs, pork,
poultry and game.
	The streets of the town are very regularly laid out. The two
principal cross each other at right angles, and in the centre there
is a spacious square, surrounded by buildings, some of which are
of a very superior description. On one side of the square, a hand-
some new house is being, built, which is to contain apartments for
the North of Scotland Bank office.
        Roads, Bridges, &c.--The principal road from Aberdeen to
Inverness passes through this square, crossing each of the rivers
by an excellent bridge at either extremity of the town. The in-
habitants thus enjoy the privilege of a daily communication with
both these town by the Mail and Defiance coaches, and with the
former by the Duchess of Gordon coach every alternate day.
Huntly is distant from Aberdeen to the east, thirty-eight miles; to

	ABERDEEN.                        3u


