
                            SALTON.                           111

but brief: he died in 1678, having scarcely completed his twenty-
eighth year. To him Leighton might truly have applied his fa-
vourite adage, "Diu vixit qui bene vixit."
   Superior, however, as a character of public eminence to either
of the preceding, occupying a much more distinguished place in
the history of the past, and still continuing to enjoy, by the la-
bours of his genius and the recollection of his moral worth, a pro-
minent station in the eye of mankind is the individual, who, as
the immediate successor of Scougall, next filled the office of mi-
nister of Salton. The name of Gilbert Burnett, Bishop of Salis-
bury, is calculated to shed a lustre, not only on that humble spot
which formed the first and early sphere of his ministerial labours,
but on the country which gave him birth, and on the age in which
he lived. Distinguished as he was by the remarkable vigour of his
understanding, the unblemished integrity of his character, and the
unequalled moderation of his public conduct, he was eminently
suited to the circumstances of the times in which his lot was cast,
and peculiarly qualified to discharge those delicate and important
duties, which, in after life, and in a more elevated station, frequent-
ly devolved upon him. *
   He was admitted minister of Salton, the 29th of January 1665,
having been presented to the living by the Crown. + During his
incumbency, he was most assiduous in the performance of his pas-
toral duties. He preached twice every Sabbath, and once during
the week. In the important duty of catechising and examining his
flock from house to house, and of administering spirituxal conso-
lation to the sick, he was equally exemplary and assiduous. He

<FOOTNOTE>  Wodrow, after having adverted to him as one of Bishop Leighton's "evange-
lists," who were selected for their peculiar mission, on account of their "fame, learn-
ing, and preaching gifts," speaks of him as "Mr Gilbert Burnet, well known to the
world since, first Professor of Divinity at Glasgow, and after that persecuted for his
appearing against prosperity, and for the cause of liberty; and since the Revolution the
learned and moderate Bishop of Sarum, one of the great eye-sores of the highfliers
and Tories in England, and a very great ornament to his native country."-Church
History, Book ii. chap. 5.
   The only circumstance which, on looking back calmly and dispassionately on
the events of the past, tends in any degree to diminish our admiration of this eminent
man is the fact-in his case, perhaps, the result rather of circumstances than of choice
-of his having acted so conspicuous a part in the unjustifiable and impolitic attempt
of the Episcopal party of the time to force upon the people of Scotland a made of
faith and worship, which the latter conscientiously deemed to be unscriptural, and
which they too justly feared would lead to a spiritual usurpation of a still more un-
hallowed character.
     Sir Robert Fletcher, through whose influence the appointment, was obtained,
had wished him to accept of it nearly a year before, when it became vacant by
Scougall's, elevation, to the Episcopate; but Burnett declined the offer, and going
to Holland, spent the interval at Amsterdam in studying oriental literature and
theology.



