
                       DALGETY.                               183.

sequence of the great extent of coal which has been wrought out
of it. As Sir Philip Durham, however, has in lease the adjoining
coal-fields on the estate of Cuttlehill, it is certain that coal will
be conveyed through the parish for upwards of 150 years to come.
And even when it is exhausted, the extensive minerals to the north,
in the neighbouring parish, will, in all probability, be brought
through this parish to the shipping port of St David's. From a
recent inspection of the strata throughout this parish, and, parti-
cularly, from a minute examination of that part of it connected with
the mining operations, it is found that the coal-field is much in-
tersected with dikes and dislocations, which very much elevate and
depress the strata forming this extensive coal country.
  From the harbour of St David's, the southern boundary of the
parish, as far north as the drainage level of the Fordel colliery ope-
rations,-a distance of about two miles,-ihe strata appear some-
what regular, dipping to the north-east. They cannot, however,
be correctly ascertained in many places, as they have a conside-
rable cover of earth upon them. From the latter point, northwards,
they can be most accurately traced.
  The outlet of water from the drainage level of the Fordel col-.
liery is 120 feet above the level of the sea, and it is continued north-
wards nearly three miles through the solid rock. During its course
ten dikes are met with of various magnitudes; in some places they
do not alter the strata many feet; in others, they are found 100 feet
thick, and elevating the strata sixty fathoms. Their direction often
varies as well as their angle of inclination from nearly a horizontal
to a vertical position. The materials of which these dikes are com-
posed are generally sandstone, more or less indurated with quartz
and limestone.
  From the point at which coal is first found, the surface rises
gently northwards, till it reaches the height of 436 feet above the
level of the sea; this forms the northern boundary, and the highest
part of the parish. It is found as we proceed northwards, that the
strata assumes a greater dip in some places, varying from 1 in 8
to 1 in 3. In very few instances, however, do these dikes deterio-
rate the coal in quality, but the reverse; for as the miner ap-
proaches these dikes, the coal becomes harder, and more difficult
to work, and in many cases an extra expense is paid for labour.
The coal mines in this parish were not wrought to any considerable
extent until within the last thirty years, when the consumption of
coal has been very much increased, particularly for steam naviga-


