
     Statistical Account

Stipend, including what is allowed for communion-ele-
ments, is cummunibus annis, about L. 92 : 1 : 4 Sterling.
The school house, which is a good substantial building, con-
sists of 2 floors, one of which is employed by the school,
and the other by the schoolmaster's family.  It was one of

<FOOTNOTE>

front, are two statues kneeling on a marble monuments, in the attitude of
devotion, and habited according to the fashion of the times.  On the
wall beyond them, which is also marble. are these lines in capital letters
"He e lye the the bodies of Hanis Hamilton sonne of Archibald Hamil-
ton of Raploch, servant to King James the Fist, and of Janet Denham his
wife, daughter of James Denham, Laird of Westshielde.  They lived
marvid together 45 yeeres, during which tyme the said Hanis served the
cure at this church.  They were much beloved of all that knew them,
and especially of the parishoners.  They had fix sonnes, James, Archi-
bald, Gavin, John, William and Patrick, and one daughter Jeane, maryed
to William Muire of Glanderstoune.

<UNREADABLE>

Rom 8 C.H.      The dust of time lyis in this artful Frame,         Prov. 31 CH.
ver. 18. The    Whose birth them honored from an honored Name       ver. 10 & 30
affictions of   A painful Pastor and his Spotles Wife,              The price of
this life are   Whose devout Statues emblime here there Life,       a virtuous
not worthy      Blest with the height of favors from Above,         woman is
of the glory    Blood, Grace ablest Memoriall all mens Love,        far above
which shall     A fruitfull ofspring on whom the Lord hath Fixt,    pearles-
be showed       Fortuns with virtue and with honor Mint,            A woman
unto us.        Then live these Dead above in endles Joyes,         that senets
                Here in their Seid and Noble Cland's eboyes,        the lord.
                In whom (Grauntsoe O Heavens) their honor'd Name,   shall be pr-
                May never die but in the death of Fame              ied.

</UNREADABLE>

   Round the verge of the arch is the passage from Daniel, Dan. 12 ch
ver. 3. "They that turn many to rightiousnes shall slene as the stars for
ever and ever."  Above this is a fine representation of a curtain part-
ing in the middle. and held aside by a hand on each corner, as if to show
them at their prayers.  And over the door, on a marble stone, is this in-
scription, now scarcely legible. "Come Lord Jesus, Come."

     16   41
     I GL V

   As the figures point to the time when the tomb was built, so the im-
     I


