
        588                        PERTHSHIRE.

	hs thirty-four times the amount of the valued rent.  The average
	rent of grazing is for an ox or cow L. 2 for the summer half year,
	and for a sheep in the low grounds 8s., on hill pasture 3s. 6d.
          Wages.--The wages of men farm-servants are I.,. 13, and of wo
	men L. 6, 6s. a year.

	  Live-Stock.--On the estate of Lawers, which is chiefly in the
	hands of the proprietor, most attention -has been paid to the iin-
	provement of sheep.  The late enterprising proprietor, Lord Bal-
	gray, reported 11 that the ordinary breed of sheep is the black-faced
	These have been improved, entirely by introducing the best breeds
	from Crawford Muir, Dumfries-sbire.  Some years ago, the Cbe-
	viots were introduced, and they thrive well, and have been very pro-
	fitable. , Of late years, Leicester sheep have been also introduced
	with much advantage, by taking cross-bred lambs from black-faced
	ewes.  The wool on Lawers has been much improved and doubled
	in weight within the space of ten years.  The most beneficial salve
	iihich has been found., is the tar and butter."
	  The Ayrshire breed of cows has been very generally introduced,
	and its excellence kept up by superior animals purchased by the
	proprietors.  Some good stocks of the best Highland breed are
	also to be fOUDd in the higher parts of the parish.
	In regard to the general character of the husbandry pursued, the
	very intelligent land-steward reports as to the Perth estate, which
	extends overvth upper districts south and west . 11 The arable
	land is stated at the utmost extent, and comprehends all that was
	ever subjected to the. plough, and, in my opinion, more 'than is so
	at the present time, as a great part of the land called arable in
	that quarter is found to pay better, as pasture, except what may
	be necessary for the support of the people and stock in the winter,
	being mostly pasture or grazing farms.  The tenant's principal de-
	pendence is stock, the preservation and improvement of it is his
	chief object. The general husbandry, in the pasture farms , is al-
	ternate white and green crops, and long rested as pasture."
	  In the low grounds, the usual system is a rotation of five years,
	the order of oats, green crop,- barley, and grass seeds,-bay
	pasture.  There is no wheat grown in the parish.  The soil is
	excellently adapted for potatoes, barley, and oats, and, if largely
	manured, produces heavy crops.  The deep soil ploughing has
	not yet been introduced.
	  On the estates of AberuchiH and  Ardvorlich, the cultivated
	land has been doubled during the last forty years; and a large


