
                      MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                   743

    on high ground for a ye`r, 3s. ; a man (farm) servant's wages,
    average from L. 12 to L. 14 ; a female do. from L. 5 to L. 6 ; a
    male labourer's wages per day in summer, 1s. 6d., in.winter, 1s.
    4d.; female do. in summer, 8d., winter, 6d.; a man's wages in
    harvest, about 2s., female's do. 1s. 6d. ; a mason's per day, 2s. 4d. ;
    a carpenter's, 2s.
       Live-stock.--Horses.--About thirty or forty years ago, the de-
    scription of horses reared and used in the district consisted of what
    were provincially styled garrons, being introduced from the North
    or West Highlands, and were supposed to have been originally a
    cross breed betwixt the Spanish Jennet, (numbers of which were
    cast on the shores of Britain upon the dispersion of the Spanish
    Armada,) and the Scotch pony.  They were not very handsome,
    being long eared, and long shanked, in proportion to the size of
    the body, but were reckoned very hardy animals.  Within the last
    twenty-five years, the breed of agricultural horses in particular has
    been very much improved,--attributable principally to the laudable
    spirit of emulation introduced in consequence of premiums distri-
    buted yearly by the Strathearn Agricultural Society instituted
    on 20th November 1809, by the late Sir P. Murray, Bart.  The
    Clydesdale breed is now the favourite horse for agricultural pur-
    poses.
       The common breed of sheep in this parish is the black-faced or,
    mountain sheep.  In gentlemen's enclosures, there is also the
    Leicester breed.  In the hill district, Highland cattle are found;
    in low grounds, crosses from the Teeswater, short-horned, and
    Ayrshire breeds,
      Husbandry.--The general rotation in husbandry is the follow-
    ing: at first breaking up from lea, oats are sown for one, or occa-
    sionally two years ; then turnips or potatoes drilled ; next white
    crop with grass seeds; then a crop of bay; and the two following
    years, pasture.  Sometimes when the land has remained in pas-
    ture for fifteen or twenty years, two or more crops of oats are taken
    in succession after the lea is broken up.  The kinds of turnips
    cultivated here are chiefly the yellow, a proportion of the white
    globe being also sown to be first consumed,as they do not stand
    the frost well.  The potatoes cultivated are chiefly the red, but
    buffs are also becoming common, and a new species of American
    white is now in much request.  The grains usually sown, accord-
    ing to the quality of the soil--if best, potato or Flemish oats;--


