
     Statistical Account

3 1/2 d.; eggs, 4 d the dozen; fowls, from 1 s. 8 d. to 2 s.
the pair, according to the season; chickens, 7 d. the pair;
ducks, 1 s. 4 d. ditto; butter, at an average through the
year, may be reckoned at 8 1/2 d. the lb.; whereas, about 30
or 40 years ago, beef or mutton could have been bought
here at 1 1/4 d. the lb.; a pair of good chickens, at 2 d. a do-
zen; eggs, at 1 d.; butter, at 4 d. the lb. and other articles
in proportion.-The wages of an ordinary labourer are about
8 d. a-day in winter, and 10 d. in summer, finding his own
provisions; of a mason, about 1 s. 8 d.; of a wright, about
1 s. 4 d.; of a tailor, 1 s. if he finds his own victuals, and
6 d. if victuals are afforded him.  The masons and wrights
most frequently work by the piece.-Coal, Scotch and
English, is the chief article of fuel here, though peat, turf,
furze, broom, and wood, are likewise occasionally used.
The Scotch coal is at present about 8 s. the boll at the
port of Montrose, the boll weighing 70 stone, cartage from
thence about 1 s. 6 d. or 2 s. the boll, according to the di-
stance.  The English coal, which is likewise much used, is
about 1 s. 6 d. the barrel, six barrels being supposed rather
better than a boll of Scotch.  Peat from the mosses in Fet-
tercairn parish, about 6 miles distant, is bought on the spot
out of stacks at 1 s. the foot, the cartage about 1 s. 6 d. the
cart load.  The cart load of broom or furze, costs from 1 s.
to 1 s. 6 d.; turf can scarcely be got at any price; dead
wood is sold here at about half value.  With regard to the
expence of a common labourer when married, if he have a
family consisting of three or four children, it cannot be less
than L. 12 or L. 13 Sterling a-year; yet if he and his
wife be frugal and industrious, they may make a shift to
earn a tolerable livelihood, especially, if they have a kail
yard, and maintenance for a cow, as is pretty generally the
case here.  The man may gain at the rate of 8 d. or 9 d. a
day, the wife, by spinning, may earn 8 d. or 1 s. a-week,

     3


