
                        ROSLIN.                       351

went to re-comfort his princess and the ladies, desiring them to
put away all sorrow; and rewarded his chaplain very richly.  Yet
oil this stayed him not from building of the college, with his
liberality to the poor, but was rather more liberal to them than
before, applying the safety of his charters and writs to God's par-
ticular providence."
  Entrance to the Castle.--The promontory on which the castle
stands is insulated by a deep natural ravine on the land side, over
which there is a narrow bridge, to be approached from the east.
The gate of entrance was on the west end of this bridge, and was
powerfully defended: and, immediately behind this kind of out-
work, was an immense building of several stories, forming oneside
of the square of the castle.  On the right or north side of the
square was a massive wall, the greater part of which is still stand-
ing; and at the south end of this wall was a tower of vast size.  In
the court was a well for supplying the inmates with water.  Mr
Hay in his manuscript has given several views of the castle in its
entire state, and he is said to have made these with his pen.
  Extent of the Castle.--From east to west the castle is about 200
feet in length; it is nearly 90 feet in breadth, and the walls are
about 9 feet thick.  On the ruins of this ancient building, and
over the vaults, is a comparatively modern house, with the letters
S. W. S., (Sir William Sinclair,) and the date 1622, over the
door.  The ceiling of the dining room is enriched with antique
pannels and designs, variously ornamented and intermixed with
the armorial bearings of the St Clair family.
  Ancient Establishment.--According to Father Hay, the esta-
blishment maintained by Prince William, the founder of the cha-
pel, and his Princess, Elizabeth Douglas, was most magnificent.
He was served at his table, it is said, in vessels of gold and silver,
by Lord Dirleton, as Master of his Household; by Lord Borth-
wick, as his Cup-bearer; and by Lord Fleming, as his Carver:
each of whom had a deputy of equal rank to officiate in his ab-
sence.  His lady was served by seventy-five gentlewomen, of whom
fifty-three were the daughters of noblemen, and all of them were
attired in silk and velvet, and adorned with chains of gold and
other jewels.  When travelling from Rosslyn to the family man-
sion in Edinburgh, which was at the foot of Blackfriar's Wynd,
she was attended by two hundred gentlemen on horseback, and,
if after nightfall, by other eighty persons bearing torches.
  The Maiden Castle.--This castle was situated between two and


