
                              CARLURE.                          575

	With few exceptions, the dense clay found under the peat per-
vades the whole district. A deposit of fine quartzose sand, fit for
the crystal manufactory, is found on the south base of Kingslaw;
and in the valley near Lee, and on the banks of the Clyde, but
much above its present bed, extensive deposits of sand and gravel
occur, as at Braehead, Gills, Waygateshaw, and Milton-Lockhart,
&c.
	The soil necessarily is of the same quality as the subsoil, modi-
fied by the disintegration of some of the rocks, by the air by heat,
and by artificial processes. Above the old red sandstone, however,
in the south-eastern division, the soil is, to use a common phrase,
lighter. The loamy soils are found at places favourable only from
their position, as the flats around rising grounds, the holms of the
Clyde, &c.
	Clay fit for a variety of purposes, such as brick-making and the
pottery manufactures, abounds. Large deposits of white plastic
clay are found in Braidwood lands, at Thorn. &c.
	On the Hyndshaw lands, in the north-west, there is a good ex-
ample of an ancient lake converted into a flat deep rich soil. In
some places, the depth of the soil is found to be many feet, consist-
ing of slimy layers, and at other places the clay projects in the
form of what may have been little islets. Tradition dates its ex-
istence at no remote period. An outlet seems to have been got
by cutting through the rock on its western boundary. On its mar-
gin, there are places named Waterlands and Bogside. Many
fathoms under the surface, the course of a considerable river was
discovered some years ago, while working one of the under seams
of coal at Orchard; and lately, near the same place, and in the
same plane, in the cannel-coal workings, it was again come upon.
The coal in its course is worn through and finely polished. We
have little hesitation in entertaining the belief that this must have
been the continuation of the river which at one time flowed through
Lee Valley, of which positive evidence exists in addition to what
is implied in the word Lee. *
	The courses of our numerous little streams arising, in the higher
parts of the parish, principally from Kingslaw, and flowing towards
the Clyde, afford excellent scope to the geological inquirer; and
the equally numerous gills through which these streams flow im-
mediately above the Clyde, are (apart from their intrinsic, beauty)

<FOOTNOTE>Lli, a stream.


