
			KILWINNING.                         831

        In consequence of the extent and populousness of the parish, the
present incumbent has, for several years, kept an assistant, who is
supported jointly by himself and the patron.
	There are two meeting-houses in the town, one of which is con-
nected with the United Secession, and the other with the Origi-
nal Seceders. The congregations attending them are not large.
The minister of the former congregation receives L.80 per an-
num, that of the latter L.100, which sums are derived from seat-
rents and other voluntary contributions.
	Divine service in the Established Church is generally very well
attended, although a large portion of the inhabitants altogether
neglect Divine ordinances. The number of communicants may
be stated at nearly 1000.
	Education.--There are 8 schools in the parish, but only one of
them is a parochial school. The others are, all unendowed, and
are supported almost entirely by scbool-fees. The branches of
education 1generally taught are, English reading, writing, arithme-
tic, and geography, and in addition to these, in the parochial school,
instructions are given in Latin, mathematics, book-keeping, and draw-
ing. The maximum salary is allowed to the schoolmaster, and a
house is provided for him. Two of the other teachers are in
the town. The others are connected with collieries, or are in
small hamlets in different parts of the parish. The school-rooms
have generally been built by subscription. Near, the village of
Doura, a large school-room and a house for the teacher, with a
play-ground and garden attached to it, have been erected at the
sole expense of the Earl of Eglinton and Winton.
	The average attendance on all the schools put together is
about 550, and there are few in the parish who have not received
instruction in reading and writing, and the other elements of a
common education. It may also be mentioned, that there are
six Sabbath schools, which are attended by upwards of 500 chil-
dren.
	Charitable and other Institutions.--There are four Friendly So-
cieties in the parish, one for males and the others for females.
The first was formed in 1830, by the union of several that had
existed previously. The rest have been in existence for the pe-
riods of twenty-four, twenty-six, and twenty-seven years. The
members of the Male Friendly Society amounted at its commence-
ment to 450, in 1840 to 440, and at, present to the same number.


