
			ST MADOES.                               609

ritory, which for centuries has heen renowned as affording the finest
in quality, as well as the largest in quantity of Scotland's fruits.
   Topographical Appearance.-A casual observer would pronounce
the aspect of the parish to be that of an uninterrupted flat, except
towards the northern part, where it rises into a gentle elevation;
but on minuter examination, apart from the more elevated ground,
it consists of three different levels or flats, the first commencing
on the verge, qf the Tay, and composed of land which partly
within the last six, and wholly within the last fifty years has been
reclaimed or banked off from the river, the greater portion of it
being from three to five feet below high-water mark,-the second
from six to eight feet higher, having also at no very distant period
been under water,-the third `nd by much the most extensive, rising
to the height of fourteen feet above the second, (this is the gene-
ral level of the Carse of Gowrie). Then commences a gradual
ascent, which terminates at an elevation of 42 feet more, the high-
-est part of the parish being thus 62 feet above the level of the
Tay `t high-water mark. Towards the northern boundary, there
is a descent again, corresponding to the ascent from the highest
level on the south. The land along this boundary is flat. Like
the highest level referred to, it is about 20 feet above the Tay at
high-water mark,
   Seen from Inchyra Hill, an eminence about half a-mile to the
north-west, which places it completely under the observer's eye, this
parish presents a very captivating landscape. Skirted by the noble
Tay, receiving on the opposite side its finest tributary,-the Earn,
-beyond which to the east and west, respectively, appear the town
of Newburgh, and the ancient capital of the Picts, Abernethy, rest-
ing on the slope of a range of rugged hills; traversed by numerous
hedge-rows of oak, elm, and beech, mature in age, studded too with
solitary trees of splendid growth and handsome form, that " tell
where once some cottage garden bloomed," and holding in its
bosom Pitfour Castle with its fine demesne, and the church shew-
ing its humble spire from amid a screen of ancidnt trees,-the scene
ir altogether one of the most beautiful that can well be contem-
plated; and seldom is an observer found to depart from i4 with-
out expressing his admiration of the mingled richness, repose, and
grace that distinguish it.
   Meteorology.-Tbe climate is here peculiarly temperate. A
v`riety of circumstances, which the most inattentive observer can
hardly fail to notice, indicates and attests the truth of this. Green
   PERTH.


