
494				DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

side of the parish, and branches carried from these to the princi-
pal farm steadings in the parish. For making and keeping these
roads in a state of repair, the Duke of Buccleuch, at the time, ap-
propriated five per cent. out of the whole land rent of the parish,
with L. 50 additional from his private purse. A half-penny was
also levied at the different coal pits upon every horse load, equal
to 2d. the cart load,--besides the conversion of the statute labour,
which was altogether inadequate at the time to carry on these great
improvements. The whole annual amount may have been at the
time about L. 400. The funds arising from the toll-bar, placed ex-
actly upon the side of the Scotch dike, went entirely towards the
repair of the post-road.
	Bridges.--In this parish, there are ten bridges of one arch over
the different rivulets, and a great number of smaller ones. Over
the Esk there are two bridges,--one having three arches, and the
other two; the former, distant a mile and a-half from the latter,
was built about ninety years ago at the expense of the county.
The parishioners who lived to the west of the river had no ac-
cess to the church or to the east side, before this bridge was
built, except by wading or crossing on horseback, or in a boat,
when the water was not fordable. The boat having been overset
at one time, and several persons drowned returning from church,
and many individuals having lost their lives after this catastrophe,
the building of this bridge was at last executed.
	The other bridge was finished about forty-two years ago. It is
built upon an extensive scale, and has a very striking appearance,
which attracts even the attention of the most incurious traveller,
who, if circumstances permits, halts to admire the beautiful scenery
around him,--which, as far as wood and water, bank and brae go,
is alomost the finest landscape the imagination can paint. The
span of the largest arch of this bridge is 70 feet, of the smaller
one, 45; the height to the pass way 46 feet; and the extreme
length 244. This bridge has been of the utmost utility to the
country, by opening up a ready and safe communication, as well
as shortening the distance several miles in going and returning
from his Grace's colliery at Byreburnfoot. The turnpike road
takes also a new direction for a mile and a-half, by which means
a pretty long and heavy pull, from north to south, on the old road,
and also, the most exposed situation on the road between Lang-
holm and Longtown,--are avoided. The road which leads
			   	4


