
                       EDDERTOUN.                          447

The baronry of Westray is entailed property; but the small es-
tates of Meikle and Little D......n, which also belong to the Balna-
gown family, and were acquired by purchase, the former in the
last century, and the other in the present, are both unentailed.
Meikle D......n originally belonged to the family of Foulis; a char-
ter and disposition of those lands having been granted by Hector
Munro, twenty-second Baron of Foulis, in August 1601, to "An-
drew Munro, his youngest brother-german," to hold of the said
Hector Munro of Foulis and his descendants, on payment of a feu-
duty of "x. merkis Scottis yearlie."
  Estate of Sutherland.-The estates in this parish belonging to
the Duke of Sutherland were acquired by purchase in 1832, from
Murdo Mackenzie, Esq. of Ardross, who had inherited them from
has maternal ancestors. Easter Fearn, which is a part of them,
was originally in the possession of a family of the name of Ross.
  Estate of Cadboll.-The Estate of Upper Eddertoun was ac-
quired by Roderick Macleod of Cadboll, in the year 1729, on
the death of Eneas Macleod of Cambuscurry, without heirs-male,
as "heir of tailzie of the foresaid lands of Upper Eddertoun."
  The land-owners of this parish were more numerous about a
century ago than at present. The following are their names, with
their respective valuations, in the year 1745:-

  The Laird of BaInagown,                                          L-1045 Scots.
  Bailie Nicolas Ross, merchant in Tain, factor on the sequestrated
    estate of Easter Fearn,                                           200
  Alexander Ross, tacksman Of Mid-Fearn,                              100
  Roderick Macleod of Cadboll,                                         73
  David Ross of Priesthill, beritor of Meikle D......n,                  61
  Alexander Ross, in Gray's Inn, London, writer to the Signet, or
   Francis Griffith, his factor, for the lands of Little D......n,       50
                                                                     -----
                           Total valuation of Eddertoun,           L.1159 Scots.
  Parochial Registers, &c.-The register of births, baptisms, and

<FOOTNOTES>facts:-The descendants, collaterly, of Abbot Fearn were very numerous, David
Fearn of Tarlogie, and Andrew Fearn of Pitcallion or Pitculzean, both claimed to
be related to him, and both their properties having been originally "Abbey-lands,"
Abbot Dunoon(1528-1540),feued off the Barony of Cadboll, in I534, to his nephew,
Andrew Dunoon, in whose family it continued till it was lost in supporting the cause
of the unfortunate King Charles "the martyr." Dunoon of Pitogarty, and Sir An-
drew Dunoon were also of this family. In 1559, Mr Robert Melvitle, Prebend of
Tain and Chaplain of Tarlogie, granted a "charter of confirmation of the lands of
Tarlogie to George Munro Dalcastle, with consent of Mr Nicholas Ross, Com-
mendator of Fearn." (1546-1569.) Abbots Nicholas and Thomas Ross (1569-1595)
were compelled by the powerful neighbouring barons to give grants of the lands be-
longing to the monastery. This oppression reduced the latter personage to great
straits, as related in the "Catalogue of the Abbots." And, to conclude, "Walter Ross
Of Morangy, the last Commendator of the Abbacy of Fearn," procure a grant in his
own favour, of "Morangy and the	mills thereof,' and these lands belonged to his
family for several generations. (Charters of Family of Ross, &C., and ancient MSS.)


