
                               LEITH.                           777

lity is that the church at Leith was erected so as at once to trans-
fer the parish church to this quarter, or at all events to consti-
tute it a chapel of ease. In a charter of James III. dated 1490,
his Majesty confirms a charter which one Peter Falconer had
granted to a chaplain and his successors, for celebrating divine
worship at the altar of St Peter in the church at Leith, which is
therein called a "new church," dedicated to the Virgin Mary-
"Nova ecclesia Beatae Mariae in Leith."
   In 1556, some time before the Reformation, it evidently appears
that this church had been constituted the parish church,-for the
parson had ceased to reside at Easter Restalrig, and had feued
the glebe and manse, as well as the church lands belonging to the
parsonage.
   At the Reformation, the first General Assembly, by an act dated
Ist December 1560, finds, "that the ministry of the word and sa-
craments of God and assemblie of the people of the haill parochin
of Restalrig be within the kirk of Leith." But even previous to
this, the kirk of Leith was recognised as the proper parochial in-
stitution ; for one of the ministers of that assembly was "Mr David
Lindsay for Leith." The statute of 1609, c. 25, narrates that
the Legislature, "understanding that the kirk of Restalrig is ruyn-
ous, and that the kirk of Leith has bene the place of the conven-
ing of the parochiners of Restalrig the space of fyftie zeirs past,
as alsua that it is most comodious pairt, in respect that the toun
of Leith is the greatest part of the said parochin, whilk kirk not-
withstanding has never yet been erectit in ane paroch kirk. "The
act then declares "the said kirk of Leith to ber ane paroch kirk,
and ordains the same to be repute, and called heirafter the paroch
kirk of Leith, and all the inhabitants of Restalrig to resort thereto
as unto thair paroch kirk, as they have done in tymes past; and
that the benefice of Restalrig, parsonage hairof, gleib and manse
pertaining hairto, shall be always desponit to the minister serving
the cure at the said kirk of Leith in all time coming; and that the
said kirk of Restalrig be suppressed and extinct from hence forth
and for ever."
   The central part and middle aisles of the recent thurbli, Witk
the steeple, appear to have constituted the original erection, while
the side buildings seem to have been afterwards added. The
choir at the eas end was demolished at the Reformation.



