
     Statistical Account

It is formed by two rivulets, called the Burn of Craig, and
the Burn of Corchisman, which meet at the manse.  This
beautiful little river, after having run through a very rich
strath or valley, to which it gives name, and after having sup-
plied the bleachfields at Huntly with very soft and pure water,
falls into the Dovern a little below that village, 12 miles
from the place where it first took its name, without reckon-
ing the windings of the river.  There is plenty of fine trout
in it, but scarcely any salmon, except in the spawning sea-
son.  Don touches the S. E. corner of the parish, and there
receives a small river, called Mossat, which divides Auchin-
doir from Kildrummy.  Salmon are caught here by the rod
or spear; but in no great numbers.  If we include a part of
Kearn and Kildrummy, which are very much mixed with
this parish, the valley of Auchindoir is nearly surrounded by
a range of hills.  From these, several less hills shoot forward
into the valley; and the hills are indented by gullies, and cut
by dens or deep and narrow hollows, some of which reach a
great way book into the mountains.  The valley is exceed-
ingly diversified and uneven, every here and there, either
rising into hillocks, or sinking into hollows; the whole pre-
senting a prospect, which, though confined, and in most places
bleak, to the admirers of wild and romantick scenery, is by
no means unpleasant*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Notwithstanding the surrounding hills, Auchindoir is dry and healthy, the
hollows probably serving as so many ventilators to purify the air.  Out of the
12 persons that died last year, the sum of the ages of 9, is 666: and within
less than 20 years, 6 men have died, all servants in one family, whose ages a-
mounted to full 500 years.  The last of them, who died a few months ago, had
been gardener at Craig since the year 1726, retained his faculties, both mental
and bodily, in considerable perfection, and managed the garden with great at-
tention to the last; rode 7 miles the day on which he died, and at the age of
26 probably fell a sacrifice to a social and convivial disposition.  There are no


