
    44                           SHETLAND.

    we say that there are 20,000 acres lying in those commons, of
    which at least 2000 may be capable of improvement; but as they
    belong to several different owners, and are undivided, a grievous
    obstacle is thus in the way of those who might be inclined to make
    the trial.
       Rent, Wages, &c.-The land is let for a fixed money rent.
    The average rent of arable land is about 18s. Sterling per merk,
    which, arable meadow, and grass, may contain nearly two im-
    perial acres. The tenants have the privilege of keeping as
    many cattle, horses, and sheep on the common as they please,
    without any additional rent being demanded.
       The summer grazing of a cow or ox is from 8s. to 10s. Sterling,
    and much the same sum is demanded for winter fodder. Young
    cattle, sheep, and horses pasture on the open common, and cost
    the owners nothing.
       There are but few families in the parish, who require the assist-
    ance of a man-servant in the management of their farms. For
    the purpose of accommodating a more numerous body of fisher-
    men, the farms are now made much smaller than in former times.
    They consist, on an average, of about six imperial acres arable,
    with a due proportion of meadow and grass land ; and there are
    generally more people in each house, than are necessary for the
    work of such farms; but as the young people can be maintained
    by their parents at home, and as they are very fond or liberty,
    they care not much about going to service. In the spring time,
    every individual who can lift a spade, old and young, male and
    female, is set to work in the fields, and they very easily and in a
    short time turn up the soil, and accomplish the labours of the
    season. Young men are more inclined to go to the Greenland
    fishing, or to prosecute the ling-fishing at home, than to engage
    in agricultural labours. When the gentry can prevail on a man
    to undertake the work of their farms, he is paid about L.6 Ster-
    ling per annum and maintained. A woman servant is paid for
    farm-work, or the management of the dairy, from L.1, 10s. to
    L.2 per annum, and is maintained, and receives various perqui-
    sites besides, which will make up her fee to L.1 more. Neither
    men nor women do half of the work that is required at the
    hands of servants in the south, nor is their labour so productive.
       Labourers and artisans seldom want employment, and are well
    paid, and when they are sober and economical they save money,
    as living to them is comparatively cheap. A good stone-mason



