
216                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

  Average produce per Scottish acre: Wheat 36 bushels; bar-
ley, 42 do.; oats 60 do.; beans and pease 28 do.; potatoes 9 tons;
turnips 24 do.; hay 180 stones; cow's grass L. 5; ewe and lamb
from 15s. to L. 1.
   Wages.-The population, as already noticed, is almost entirely
agricultural. The hinds' wages are paid in kind. They receive 72
bushels oats, 18 do. barley, 18 do. pease, with about 90 yards of an
18feet ridge, planted with potatoes; the same extent sown with lint,
together with their food in harvest. Each hind has also a cow, ge-
nerally kept on the farm, the keep of which is worth L. 6, which,
with his potatoes, enables him to keep a pig. Labourers have 9s.
a-week through the year; young men and boys from L. 1, 10s.
to L. 5, half-yearly, with their food in their master's house; and
women and girls for field or farm labour 6d. to 9d. a day. Black-
smiths receive from the farmer L. 2, 10s. for a pair of horses. The
cast metal for the plough, and the new rings for the cart wheels,
are not included in this.  Wrights generally furnish the timber
for their work; 2s. 6d. a day is their common allowance.

		 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY
  Villages, &c.-The nearest market-town where the farm pro-
duce is sold is Haddington, distant seven miles. A very consider-
able quantity of the grain, however, is driven to Edinburgh, a dis-
tance of twenty miles. There are four villages in the parish;
Dirleton, with a population of 92 families; Gulane, 59; Fenton,
40; Kingston, 22.
  Means of Communication.-Daily communication is kept up with
Edinburgh by the North-Berwick coach, which passes through
the parish, and also by carriers almost every day. There is a daily
post from Haddington, and two post-offices in the parish.
  The roads are good, though foot-paths are still much needed.
The turnpike road divides the parish from east to west. The
fences are also good, and carefully kept, consisting chiefly of hedges
and ditches.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The original name of the parish, as al-
ready stated, was Golyn, from the village of that name. The ruins
of the old church there are still in good preservation.  It was de-
dicated to St Andrew as early as the twelfth century, and was li-
berally endowed, particularly by the families of Vaux or De Valli-
bus of Dirleton, and Congalton of Congalton; in the ancient taxa-
tion it is rated at the large sum of 80 merks. The church was
granted by William de Vaux, in the reign of King William I., to
the monks of Dryburgh, along with its tithes and other pertinents,



