
620                        LANARKSHIRE.

ing a party which stormed the Castle of Alnwick in Northumber-
landshire, he obtained the sirname of 'Alnwickster.'
	"In 1385, (according to the traditional accounts of the family)
when Scotland was invaded by King Richard II., Allan, though
past sixty, commanded a chosen body of men, consisting of his te-
nants, at Daldowie, and others levied in the neighbourhood of
Rutherglen, and was marching to join the army then assembled
on the borders, under the Earl of Douglas, when he encountered,
at a place called Morningside, in the Moor of Macmoreen, a de-
tachment of English horse, which, on account of foraging and plun-
der, was scouring the country. After a severe conflict, the enemy
was routed; but he himself was killed in the action. His remains
were deposited in the chapel of Beuskiag, close by Morningside,
a religious house, dependent on the abbey of Aberbrothic, the
Abbot of, which was lord of the district."
	Sir Walter Stewart of Allanton was born in 1606, and married
Margaret, daughter of Sir James Hamilton of Broomhill, and sister
to the first Lord Belhaven, and to James Hamilton, minister of
Cambusnethan, and afterwards Bishop of Galloway.--"It is re-
corded that Oliver Cromwell, in 1650, after the battle of Dunbar,
in his progress through Lanarkshire, halted with a few attendants
at Allanton House, where he was hospitably entertained by Lady
Stewart, and where he passed the night. Sir Walter, being a
Royalist, took care to be out of the way. On the Protector's ar-
rival, it is said, some choice Canary and other refreshments, were
presented, but he would suffer nothing to be touched, until he him-
self had first said grace, which be fervently did, for more than
half an hour, to the great edification of the lady. He then cour-
teously inquired after Sir Walter, and on drinking the health of
the family, observed that his mother's name was Stewart, and that
he always felt a kindness for the name."
	James died in 1772, and was succeeded by his son, Sir Henry
Stewart, Bart. of Allanton, LL. D., F. R. S., &c, author of a
Translation of Sallust, 2 vols, quarto, and an Essay on the best
mode of Transplanting Trees, "in which art he was very sucessful.
By adorning his estate with an uncommon degree of skill and assi-
duity, he conferred no slight benefit on a considerable district of
this parish. He made a splendid addition to the old Castle of
Allanton, under the direction of Mr Gillespie graham, and beau-
tified an extensive park which surrounds it. He formed a most
pictureque lake in front of his house, of very considerable magni-
                                 3


