
688                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

among its members Principal Robertson, Adam Smith, and David
Hume.  In 1782, Principal Robertson proposed to the profes-
sors of the university the union of these different Societier into
one body, on a plan similar to that of the foreign academies, for
the cultivation of every branch of science and literature.  The
plan was cordially approved; and it was resolved to apply for
a charter, and to solicit the Royal patronage.  Accordingly,
next year, a charter was procured; and the Royal Society of
Edinburgh was constituted.  The Society has, since that period,
occasionally published their Transactions, containing many valuable
papers on literary and scientific subjects, and they hold regular
meetings every winter for the reading of papers and communica-
tions.  The Society occupies apartments in the Royal Institu-
tion Building on the Mound.
   Astronomical Society.-In the year 1736, a plan was proposed
for erecting an observatory on the Calton Hill; and a small sum
of money was raised for the purpose, chiefly through the exertions
of Maclaurin, then professor in the university.  Nothing, however,
was done till the year 1776; when the present old building on the
Calton Hill was founded.  The funds failing, the building was not
finished until 1792, when it was completed, but in a style far in-
ferior to the original design.  For many years, it remained with-
out any instruments, and consequently useless.
  In 1812, The late Professor Play fair published an eloquent ad-
dress on the importance of an astronomical observatory for Edin-
burgh; and in that year the Astronomical Institution was formed.
To this institution,-the funds for which were raised by a certain
number of shares of twenty-five guineas each,-the magistrates
made over the ground and building on the Calton Hill; granting
them a seal of cause and all the privileges of a corporation.
   In 1818, the new Observatory was founded contiguous to the old
building.  It is an elegant Doric structure, after the model of the
Grecian temple of the winds;  The building is a central cross of
62 feet, with four projecting pediments supported by six columns,
and fronting the four cardinal points of the compass.  In the cen-
tre is a dome 13 feet in diameter, and in which is a solid cone or
pillar 19 feet in height for the astronomical circle.  On the east
end stands the transit-instrument and astronomical clock; and on
the west the position for the mural circle.  The whole is based on
the solid rock.  The Professor of Practical Astronomy has apart-
ments in the building, for his convenience in making observations.
   Society of Antiquaries.-This Society was established by Royal


