
706                    LANARKSHIRE.

stant moderator of the Presbytery, by a letter from His Majesty's
Council, whith was presented by the Earl of Abercorn. *  The
affairs of the college having become embarrassed, through suppos-
ed mismanagement on his part, + Principal Sharpe was induced to
demit his office on the 11th of August 1614. He died in May
1615. ++  4. Mr Robert Boyd.  5. Mr James Sharpe.  He was
elected one of the regents of the College of Glasgow on the 15th
of October 1610. S  After being minister of Govan for about
eighteen years, he was translated to Leith in 1539, on the presen-
tation of Lord Balmerino, and with the unanimous consent of the
General Assembly, having succeeded Mr William Wishart, ? par-
son of Restalrig, who was deposed by the Assembly that met the
preceding year at Glasgow.  He died in 1645, a victim, it is sup-
posed, to the plague, as in the course of that year not fewer than
2736 persons, in the town of Leith, were carried off by this fearful
malady ; being more than one-half of the whole population. Prin-
cipal Baillie classes James Sharpe among the eminent men belong-
ing to the College of Glasgow, when he was first connected to
it **  6. Mr William Wilkie.  Like the minister who preceded
and the one who followed him, he was, previous to his appoint-
ment to the parish of Govan, a regent ++ in the College- of Glasgow.
He produced to the presbytery from the College a presentation
in his own favour, on the 22d of,January 1640. ++++  Mr William

<FOOTNOTE>Sharpe and Elizabet Jak cotentit to marre for performing of marrage betwixt yame, and
making of na brydellis, his friend Mr Blaise Laurie, [one of the regents of the college,]
captioner and souertie for Yame vnder the pain of ten lib. money." Glas. Ses, nee.
19th August 1691.
          Glasg. Presh. Rec.
          Wodrow, MSS. Life of Boyd, Vol. xv. pp. 63,64.
          Com. Rec. Glasg. " The brethren having read and considerit the paines and
travills taken be Mr Patrick Scharp, Principall of the Colledge of Glasgow, and hia
lessones, upon the catechisme and grounds of religions, allowes of the same, and
thinks them very necessar and profitable, and therefore ordaynes them to be printed."
(Perth Assembly, 14th March 1597. Book of Univ. Kirk, p. 476.) Dempster,
who calls Sharpe,  "vir eruditus," says of him 11 Grace se Latini multa edidit.
Ego vidi tantum in orationem Dominicam commentarium, ex Patribus Graecis La
tinisque." (Hist. Ecel. Gent. Scot. Tom. ii. p. 600) The only work of his which
I have seen, is a small duadecimo volume, having for its title, " Doctrine Christi-
ane brevis explicatio.  Edin. 1599." It is a commentary on the three first chapters
of Genesis, the Apostle's creed, the sacrements, the decalogue, and the Lord's prayer.
          Annales Coll. Glasg.
          Records of Kirk of Scot. Edited by A. Peterkin, p. 256.
          Bodii, Prelectiones ad Ephes, epist ad Lectorem, p. i.
          "By a recommendation of the General Assembly, not long after our Reforma-
tion from Popery, the regents were only to continue eight years in their profession, after
which, such as were found qualified were licensed, and upon calls after trials admitted
to the holy ministry." Truth's Victory over Error, Glasgow, 1725, preface by Robert
Wodrow, p. xi.
          Glasg. Presb. Records.


