
                           KILBRIDE.                            27

an end to this demoralizing traffic. Still the most upright of the
common people are disposed to view it, if at all a breach of the
Divine law, at least a very venial tone. The encouragement
given by the proprietor to agricultural improvements has given a
great impulse to the industry of the people. But in this respect
they are still far behind their neighbours on the Ayrshire coast.
Nor can they be expected to match them, till, by the enlargement
of the size of the farms, and the gradual removal of the surplus
population, provision is made for affording them steady adds profi-
table occupation. The want of regular work gives time for much
idle talk. Accordingly, the most trifling article of intelligence
flies with rail-road speed from one extremity of the parish to the
other. The ancient games and amusements of Highlanders have
disappeared, and have almost ceased to be even matters of tradi-
tion. Highland superstition are also rapidly on the decline; though
the belief in ghosts, witches, and fairies, has still a firm hold of
the minds of many; and the power of the evil eye is a very general
article of faith. They have still a number of traditions about Fin-
gal, or as they call him Fiunn MacCoul, and his heroes, whom
they speak of as a race of gigantic warriors, and hunters. These
traditions agree better with those which prevail in the north of
Ireland, than with the more refined and poetical tales of Macpher-
son's Ossian. In some of these St Patrick occupies a prominent
place. The people in general are very temperate and chaste.
Among the rural population, there is perhaps not one habitual
drunkard. It is to be lamented, however, that intemperance is
fast gaining ground among the sailors in the parish, and such of
the tradesmen as earn high wages. Of the latter,the majority
are from the mainland, whence they import the prevailing vices of
the lower orders in our large towns along with them. The num-
ber of illegitimate births is small; and perhaps the half of these
is occasioned by the intercourse of the parish with the mainland,
whence girls, who repair to it for service, occasionally return in
a state of pregnancy. No people can be more frugal than the na-
tives of the parish. They live upon the humblest fare; potatoes
are with the majority of them the staff of life, and animal food is a
luxury in which they rarely indulge. In dress the more aged of
both sexes have departed very little from the unadorned simplicity
of their progenitors; but the young very generally follow the
fashions which prevail among their own class in the mainland, the
softer sex as elsewhere taking the lead. On Sabbath, the church


