
674                         FIFESHIRE.

  Linen Manufactory.-Previous to the year 1810, the brown
linen manufactory of this parish was limited to some 50 or 60
operatives, who sold their Silesias and window-blind Hollands to
the merchants at Auchtermuchty and Kettle, from whom the
yarns were generally purchased. The yarns chiefly used were
hand-spun, the produce of Scotland and Ireland, with some Ger-
man yarns imported from Harnburgh; but in a few years this
branch of the linen trade very much declined, and was at last al-
most entirely relinquished. About the year 1804, the manufac-
ture of Dowlas, sheetings, and various kinds of towellings, was in-
troduced from bleached, mill, and spun flax, and tow yarns, and
this branch of the trade has continued to increase, till it now em-
ploys from 800 to 900 individuals, including winders, warpers,
weavers, and rappers. The hands thus employed do not all be-
long to Markinch. The work is given out to be performed at
their own homes, and many of them reside in the adjoining pa-
rishes. During the summer months, nearly a third part of the
weavers go to out-door work, and return to the loom when winter
sets in. Steady workmen, at the present rates, will earn at
Dowlas weaving about 7s.; at sheetings, 8s.; and at towellings,
9s. per week. The winders are chiefly old and infirm persons,
or married females who have time to spare from their domestic
duties; they earn from 1s. to 4s.; warpers and rappers, 10s,
per week.  The whole of this branch is in the bands of Mr
Robert Inglis.
  Flax Spinning-Mill.-Balgonie mills, the property of Messrs
Baxter and Stewart, for spinning flax and tow. The works com-
mand the entire use of the Leven, and the machinery is driven
by two water-wheels of fifty five horse-power. 1. For flax spin-
ning, dry or long staple, there are twenty frames, containing 1000
spindles, with a full system of screw-gill preparation to corre-
spond. The size of the yarn spun is from 1 1/2 to 3 pounds per
spindle, or, in other words, from 30 to 16 lea yarn. 2. For flax
spinning, wet or broken staple there are eighteen frames contain-
ing 1170 spindles, with full system of circular-gill preparation for
the same. The size of the yarn spun is from 12 ounces to half a
pound perspindle, or from 30 to 60 lea yarn. 3. For tow spin-
ning, there are three systems of spinning, each with suitable
preparation, including twelve 6 feet carding engines, viz. five frames,
296 spindles, for spinning yarn from 2 to 3 pounds per spindle,


