
			  GARVOCK.                          33

night, on his own property; and that about the place where the
church now stands, he had a small house for his accommodation,
when hunting. That the Keith family had been some way con-
nected with this parish, appears probable fron this, that at the
east end of the old church, within, was erected a funeral monu-
ment, at the bottom of which are the initials and date R. 1666. K.;
above this, is a shield or coat-of-arms, surmounted by a crest, being
a hand holding a burning torch, over which is a motto usta, but
the second word is defaced. Over this, is the date 1679, sur-
mounted by cherub. The stones composing this monument have
been built into the east gable wall of the new church, but so
absurdly `s to be above the ceiling. It is highly probable that this
pointed out the burying-ground of some branch of the Keith or
Marischal family, whose honours and lands were forfeited in 1715
only. Whether all the land of Garvock ever belonged to the fa-
mily of Arbuthnott, the writer is not certain; but it is certain from
Crawford's Peerage, that Hugh Arbuthenoth, Le Blond, Laird of
Arbuthnott, in 1282, bestowed the patronage of Garvock on the
Abbey of Arbroath, "for the safety of his soul," which patronage,
with many others, in consequence of the Reformation, fell into
the hands of the King. The particulars of the gift are these:-
"To the Abbot and Convent of Aberbrothock, in pure and perpe-
tual alms of one oxengate of land, lying adjacent to the church of
Garvock, with the right of patronage of the said church, and pas-
turage for I00 sheep, 4 horses, 10 oxen, and 20 cows-Aberbro-
thock, 4to nonas Aug. 1282."
        Land-owners.-The whole property of the parish is divided
among eight heritors, which are, according to their valued rents,
The Earl of Kintore; R. Taylor, Esq. of Kirktonhill; J. Scott,
Esq. of Brotherton; Dr Badenach, Esq. of Arthurhouse; Alex-
ander Wood, Esq. of Davo or Woodburnden; Alexander Forrest,
Esq. of Tullochs; Viscount Arbuthnott; and Alexander Gibbon,
Esq. of Johnston.
        Parochial Registers.-It appdars from a minute of session, July
22, 1743, that when the Rev. Mr Muirson resigned his charge to
his assistant and successor, Mr Smith, he gave up a register of
the time of his predecessor, Mr Milne, declaring that he never
saw any register of the time of Mr Auchterlaunie; that he likewise
gave up three volumes of register of his own time. But, owing to
the carelessness of succeeding clerks, or their bad accommodation,
the greater part of these are now lost, and the oldest fragments
which remain are dated 1717. At that time, they seem to have been
KINCARDINE.
                                                   C


