    
                                 MELROSE.                   73

cording to the old system, which has lately been resumed, the
management of these funds is committed to the minister and elders;
and they are not so much intended for the regular maintenance of the
permanent poor as to afford relief to persons in temporary distress.
To the enrolled poor also, relief is continually given out of the same
funds, particularly at the beginning of winter, or in times of sickness,
when what they receive from the heritors is more than usually inade-
quate.  And it may be observed in general, that whatever is given
by the kirk-session is received as a benefaction, and that what is re-
ceived from the heritors after a statement of their case, is claimed
as a right.  This right, however, the people have universally a
great reluctance to exercise at first: but when once their names are
on the roll, there is never a possibility of getting them off.  The
kirk-session, therefore, besides the good which it does in increasing
the comforts, alleviating the distresses, and soothing the feelings of
the poor, is highly useful in an economical point of view.  By pre-
venting the people from applying for public aid when in temporary
distress, and thereby fostering the spirit of independence, or at least
preventing it from being crushed prematurely, it diminishes the
number of importunate poor, incites people to strive to maintain
themselves as long as possible, giving them occasional aid under
difficulties, which would otherwise be insurmountable; and thus it
tends to lessen the amount of the legal assessment.  In former
times, the heritors used to make advance to the kirk-session out
of their own funds, sensible that their money could not be more use-
fully employed in any other way, and there is evidently much wis-
dom in making the people receive their relief from the hands of
the same persons to whom is committed the power of moral disci-
pline, control, and rebuke, which will tend to strengthen their au-
thority, and to mitigate the ill will to which the exercise of that
dangerous but salutary power may render them liable.  The elders
are also, by their knowledge of, and access to, individuals, of great
service, in making a suitable distribution of the funds.
   This, the true old Scottish mode of providing for the poor, in-
troduced, perhaps, so early as the Reformation, and recommend-
ed by its own benignity, as well as the experience of ages, was in-
terfered with in this place about twelve years ago with some view
to improvement.  From a strange misconception of the system of
Dr Chalmers, according to whom the relief of the poor ought to
be committed entirely to private charity, aided and directed by
such an order of men as the elders,-the heritors took to them-
selves the sole management of the poor, after which the church


