
     Statistical Account

young and old.-The increase is evident, and must be attri-
buted principally to the success of the lead and coal mines, to
pendicles of farms being sunset by the tenants to such as are
employed in leading coals to Wadlock-head, and Leadhills, and
to the infant establishment of a carpet manufactory.  The suc-
cess attending the inoculation of children, and the improved mode
of living and cleanliness among the people, are likewise among the
causes of the increased population.  The annual average of births
is 50, exclusive of the populous village of Wanlock-head (which
contains about the third of the inhabitants of the parish), and
of the children of Seceders.  The annual average of births in
this village, and of Seceders, may at least be calculated to be 20,
making the sum total of births annually in the parish 70.

   Heritors, Rent, etc.-The whole parish (excepting some
small properties near the burgh) is divided betwixt the Duke
of Queensberry and Lord Elliock, the former having by far the
greatest share.  The total rental of the parish, exclusive of the
burgh, some spots of land about it, and what may arise from
Wanlock-head mines, is about L. 2500 per annum.
   The number of sheep is computed to be 18000 or 20000;
of horses 170; and of black cattle 760.-The shot black-faced
sheep, the old residenters of this country, are found by experience
best suited to this particular districts.  Attempts have been
made to introduce the white-faced long, bodied sheep from the
east country, and the Bakewell breed, but without success.
The intelligent store-master saw and lamented, that though he
could introduce these kinds of sheep, he could not bring the
soil and climate necessary to make them thrive.  The common
sense of mankind admits this general principle, that it is con-
trary to the nature of every tribe of animals, to bring them from
a better to a worse soil.  And with respect to the white faced
sheep, in particular, the delicacy of their nature, the coarse-

     2


