
     Statistical Account

of Dryfe, and in which there is plenty of shell marl, but
expensive in the working.  Half a mile south of this, and
in the same tract, there is a vast fund of excellent and
workable marl, belonging to the Duke of Queensberry, and
which is extremely beneficial to his Grace's tenants, costing
only 3 d. the cart load, and 30 cart load being sufficient for
an acre.  St Mary's Cleugh, at the north end of the parish,
separating it from Sibbaldbie, is very deep, and its steep
sides are covered with the most thriving plantations of oak
and ash, some of the latter being 60 feet high, plenty of
hazle, and nuts in the season.  The Bishop Cleugh, so called
from its being old kirk-lands, has nothing remarkable.  The
Scale Cleugh, on the east side of the parish, is very deep, and
its steep banks are covered with hazle and brushwood.
There are other cleughs, but none remarkable.

   Antiquities.-On the holm of Dryfe, about 1/2 mile below
the old church-yard, are two very aged thorn trees, with a
tumulus at their base, called Maxwell s Thorns, because they
point out the place of the remarkable fight on Drysesands,
between the Maxwells of Nithsdale and the Johnstons of
Annandale*.  There are vestiges of strong towers at Old

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The particulars are: On 7th December 1593, the Lord Maxwell
warden of the western marshes, having, in conjunction with the then
Lairds of Dumlamig and Closeburn, collected 2000 men in arms marched
into Annandale to besiege the Laird Johnston's house of Lochwood, and
through deadly spite to extupate him and all his name.  Accordingly,
early on the morning, the Laird Maxwell came to Lockerbie, expecting
to find the Johnston of the Lochwood family, at home; but being
disappointed, burnt the house of Nether Place, the residence of the of
Lockerbie's brother, and afterwards returned to his party at .  It
so ha that Annan late Johnston soon appearing with only 40 horses,
of the enemy, put them to flight parsuing a certain length, and
the design, suddenly retreating, were followed by the whole body of
with Lord Maxwell at their head, till they came to the Tornwood

</UNREADABLE>


