
178                           CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

married Havard, of whom she likewise speedily procured mur-
der, that she might marry Liot, the third brother, of whom she had
become enamoured. Sculy determined to dispute his brother's
authority. To secure success, he made application to Malcolm I.
King of Scotland, who readily agreed to give him assistance,
hoping by means of him to wrest the northern counties from the
sovereignty of Norway. He created Sculy Earl of -Caithness,
which was declared a part of the kingdom of Scotland, and sup-
plied him with ships and troops.
  Liot was in Orkney when his brother reached the coast of
Caithness, and his absence enabled Sculy to overrun the country.
He next attacked the islands, but was repulsed, and many of his
followers slain. He immediately withdrew to Caithness, whi-
ther be was followed by Liot. Meantime Sculy secured.the aid
of Magbrag, chieftain of Sutherland, and the confederates were
encamped in an advantageous position in the Bogs of Skitten, (pa-
ludibus Shidensibus,) a name by which the Moss of Kilminster was
anciently called. Liot advanced against them, and was assaulted
with vigour. His men stood firm; and theirenemies, after a vain
attempt to break his line, were seized with a sudden panic and fled.
The rout soon became complete, and Sculy was slain in attempt-
ing to rally the fugitives. Liot having been wounded in the pur-
suit, died soon after. From him the clan Macleod are said to be
descended. Lodvir, the last of these ill-fated brothers, succeeded
to the vacant earldom of Orkney.
  Marl.-The following is the result of an analysis of the marl
in the Loch of Brickigoe, on the estate of Mr Innes of Thrum-
ster, by Mr Kemp, Teacher of Practical Chemistry under the Pro-
fessor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh.

<TABLE>

Pure carbonate of lime,                75 per cent.
Alumina,                                8
Silica,                                 5
Organic vegetable matter,              12
                                     ______
                                      100

<FOOTNOTE>The fair held on this moss is to this day called Skitten, market.


