
276                         RENFREWSHIRE.

each of three days duration. *  The principal Of these is St James'
Day Fair, as it is called, which is held in August.  On that occa-
sion, the chief resort of our inhabitants is the race-course, which
of late has undergone great improvement.  The Paisley races are
of early institution, as appears from a deed of council, of date April
1608. +  They have been usually run on the Friday and Saturday
of the fair week ; but the council, at a late meeting, have resolved
very properly, that, in time coming, they shall be run on the Thurs-
day and Friday of that week.  Fairs are held at Johnston on the
Thursday following the second Monday of July; and on the last
Thursday of October.  This last is a cattle-market.  A horse-
market is held on the last Friday of December.  The fair which
in former years used to be held at Thorn, about midsummer,
has of late been discontinued, or rather is now held in the
neighbouring town of Johnston, and is one of those above re-
ported.
   Means of Communication.-Paisley enjoys great facilities of com-
munication with all parts of the country.
   A post-office is established in the town, and there is another at
Johnston.  Our inhabitants enjoy the benefit of three departures
in the day, for Glasgow and Greenock, and as many arrivals from
these places.  To and from several other towns not in the line of
the Glasgow and Greenock roads, there is a daily post.
   For passengers, a coach starts to Glasgow, every hour, from nine
in the morning till nine at night, and as frequently returns from it.
The communication by the canal is nearly as frequent.  Twice
a-day in summer, and once in winter, a coach passes through Pais-
ley, from Glasgow to Beith and Saltcoats, as well as from Beith

<FOOTNOTE>The first, in the course of the year, begins on the third Thursday of February.
second on the third Thursday of May, the third on the third Thursday of August,
and the fourth on the second Thursday of November.
          " It is concluded that ane silver bell be made of 4 oz. weight, with all diligence,
for ane horse race yearly, to be appointed within this burgh, and the bounds and day
for running thereof to be set down by advice of my Lord Earl of Abereorn, Lord
Paisley and Kilpatrick."
   " In the course of the following century, this new taste of our ancestors had gain-
ed such ground, that their excessive passion few the turf called for the interposition of
Parliament.  The preamble of Stat. 1621, chap. 14th, is in these terms : " Consider-
ing the monyfold evillis and inconvenientis whiche ensew upoun carding and dyceing
and horse racing, whiche are now over muche frequented in this countrey, to the
gryit prejudice of the legis ; and becaus honest men ought not expect that anye wyn-
ning bade at anye of the games above-written, can do the sum of one hundred merks, under
penalty of forfeiture of the surplus to the poor of the parish.
                                          3


