
			LUNDIE AND FOWLIS.                459

plied, "Then when they have sunk us, my flag will still fly."
It would be difficult to estimate, sufficiently the effect of such
steady and intrepid conduct on the part of the admiral of the fleet,
or of the dignified composure with which he bore a misfortune
such as had never befallen a British Admiral in the sight of an
enemy. At length the deluded men returned to their duty, and
not long after, an opportunity was afforded them of wiping off the
memory of their defection, in the triumphant battle of Cam-
perdown.
	The Admiral's ship had been eighteen weeks at sea, and
several others had suffered much from recent gales, and were
also in need of provisions and repairs. Thus circumstanced, the
Admiral put into Yarmouth roads on the 3d October 1797, to re-
fit `nd revictual, leaving a squadron of observation on the Dutch
coast. On the 9th, information reached him that the enemy's
fleet, was at sea. On the 11th, at noon, he brought them to close
action, off Camperdown, as they were seeking to regain the port,
and of the sixteen sail of the line with which the Dutch Admiral
began the fight, nine, including the Admiral and Vice-Admiral's
ships, and two frigates, became the reward of a very gallant and
hard-fought action on a lee shore and an enemy's coast, and with
a fleet, every ship of which, except two, had lately been in open
mutiny.
	This important and seasonable victory was duly appreciated by
the Sovereign and the nation. A patent of Baron of the United
Kingdom had already been made out, though not signed, for his
intrepid conduct, and eminent services during the mutiny at the
Nore; but his title was now changed to that of Viscount, and he
received the thanks of both Houses of Parliament, and presents
and addresses from many places, amongst others the freedom of
the city of London, and a sword of two hundred guineas value,
and, with expressed reference to this victory, his son was raised to
the rank of Earl, under the title of Camperdown, at the corona-
tion of William IV., who was an intimate acquaintance and great
admirer of Admiral Lord Duncan.
	After the victory he survived ne`rly seven years, and died sud-
denly on the 4th August 1804, at Cornhill, on his way to Scot-
land. His remains are interred in this churchyard, in the family
burying-place, and the spot is, at his own request, marked by a
plain marble slab, bearing this inscription, written by himself,
"Adam, first Viscount Duncan Admiral of the White Squadron


