
580			FORFARSHIRE.

time the most considerable Pictish town, to be exposed there to
public view; but his body, according to tradition, was buried at
Pitalpie." The large stone called the King's Cross sthll remains
to the east of Pitalpie. It has a hole in the middle about a foot
deep, in which, it is supposed, the royal standard was planted dur-
ing the battle. *
        Hurly Hawkin.-The site of a castle, said to have been built
by Alexander I., King of Scotland, and known by the name of
Hurly Hawkin, may be easily traced in an enclosure opposite to
the churchyard of Liff, to the west. It is a projecting point or
tongue of land. The apex or point and two of the sides are sur-
rounded by a deep ravine. There is no access but from the north,
on which side there might have been a ditch or fosse, though
all traces of it, and even of any building on the spot, are almost
obliterated. +

<FOOTNOTE>Hollinshad relates, that Alpin was made prisoner, and "having his hands bound
behind him, was led to the next town, (Dundee), and there beheaded. His head was
set upon a pole and borne to Camelon, and there set up upon one of the highest turrets
of the wall,"-from "hence, according to the same author, certain Scots, succeeded
by stratagem in removing it, and escaped with the same to their own country-that
"the head of Alpin thus recovered was closed in a leaden coffin, and Kenneth him-
self, (son and successor of Alpin,) having in his company a great number of his no-
bles, went with it over into Colmkill, where he buried it in the Abbey, alongst the
sepultures of his elders, together with the residue of the buried it in very solemn wise,
as appertained."
   Attention has been awakened, in this quarter, to the fate of King Alpin, from the
following circumstance: A few week ago, as some labourers were employed in dig-
ging near the site of the stone, called the King's Cross, mentioned above, they disco-
vered the skeleton of a human body, within six or eight yards from the cross. The
few, fragments of bones that remained were much decayed; and not more than
eighteen inches beneath the surface of the ground. There were no traces of a coffin
of any kind; and the skull was attached, or quite contiguous, to the other remains.
It is quite out of the question to suppose that these could be the remains of Alpin,
even admitting, what is not improbable, that after his decapitation and the head car-
ried away, as a trophy by the Picts, the trunk, might have been interred near the
spot where the battle took place, and where the stone cross was erected, in memory
of the engagement.
	It is noticed in the former Statistical Account, that "not very remote from the
mound or hillock, on which the King's Cross stands, there is another little hill in
which were discovered eight or ten graves, having the bottom, sides, and top of flag-
stones. The head of each grave was due west. The tones mouldered away on be-
ing touched."
	Mr Chalmers, in his Caledonia, controverts the whole of the amount given of
King Alpin by Buchanan, Hollinshed, Boecs, and others, and insists that these au-
thors have confounded Pictish Elpin, who fell in 730, with the Scoto-Irish Alpin,
who fell a century after, at "Laich Alpin in Ayrshire. This statements rests princi-
pally on the authority of "the Register of St Andrews," and "the foundation char-
ter of the town of Ary, by William, in 1197, which when describing the limits of its
exclusive trade, calls for Lacht Alpin, the stone or grave of Alpin, us one of its dis-
tinguishing boundaries."-See Chalmers's Caledonia, page 303.
        The following particulars are stated in the former account, as connected with
the above mentioned foot: "Alexander, according to the eastern of those days,
having a donations made him, at his baptism, by the Earl of Gowrie, his god-father,
of the lands of Liff and Invergowrie, no sooner succeeded to the throne than he be-
gan to erect this palace, as Fordoun calls it. He was not, however, long permitted


