
250                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	The only ancient buildings; in Cummertrees are the Tower of
Repentance, 25 feet in height, and Hoddam Castle, both said to
have been built by lord Herries in the fifteenth century. The
tradition concerning the tower is, that Lord Herries having used
the stones of the old chapel in building Hoddam Castle, of which
he afterwards repented, built the tower both to pacify his own
conscience, and to make his peace with the Bishop of Glasgow,
who was the diocesan of the chapel. Upon the top of the tower,
there still remains a place which has evidently been used to hold
the alarm-fire. Few situations could have been better chosen for
a watbh-tower than the eminence on which it stands. It is seen on
all sides for upwards of thirty miles. Hoddam Castle, the only old
border place of strength now inhabited in this quarter, stands at the
bottom of the hill, directly below the Tower of Repentance, on
one of the most beautiful situations that is to be found on the An-
nan. The castle, like other buildings of the fifteenth century, is
chiefly remarkable for its strength, and the thickness of its wall.  Se-
veral additions have been made to the original building by the differ-
ent persons who have been its possessors. Its present proprietor,
General Sharpe, has lately built a large wing to the whole, (from
plans drawn by Mr Btrn, architect,) in good taste, and in keep-
ing with the rest of the building. The only modern building of
note is Kinmount House, built by the Marquis of Queensberry at
the cost of L. 40,000.

<TABLE=Population>
			III.-POPULATION.
	By the Census of 1821 the population amounted to  1561
                         1831,                            1407
	Males,                                             666
	Females,                                           741

	The decrease is partly owing to emigration, and partly to the
enlargement of farms. The number of the population residing in
villages is 351; of families of independent fortune, 3; of proprie-
tors of land of the yearly v`lue of L. 50 and upwards, 4; the num-
ber of families in Cummertrees, 268 ; average number of children
in each family, 4; number of inhabited houses, 238; number of
insane persons, 4; of blind, 2; of deaf and dumb, 1. The num-
ber; of families employed in agriculture is 83; of families employ-

epithet "acer" given to that king in history; while the countenance and bushy locks
on the coins of Edward bear a strong resemblance to the portraits of that monarch.


