
                                LAUDER.                      13

croft of land, and the interest of L. 100, both these being per-
quisites bequeathed by friends to the chapel. The amount of his
stipend is L. 100, with a house and garden. The number of fa-
milies in connection with the Established church is 318, and of
persons of all ages connected with it, 1543. The dissenting cha-
pel is frequented by persons from the neighbouring parishes of
Westruther, Legerwood, Melrose, and Channelkirk, as well as
from that of Lauder. It is seated to hold 400 people, and it is
stated that 370 of the seats in it are let. In this parish the dis-
senters of all ages form about one-fourth of the total population.
At the Established church, and at the chapel, divine service is ge-
nerally, when the weather is favourable, well attended. The num-
ber of communicants at the Established church is about 650.
   Religious Society.-In the parish a Bible and Missionary society
was established in 1815, which, till 1832, contributed at an ave-
rage yearly the sum of L. 17. Collections have also been made
from time to time in the church in aid of the Scottish Missionary
Society, and of the General Assembly's schools and Indian mis-
sion, which collections last year amounted to L. 15, Os. 6d. It is
proposed, agreeably to a recommendation of the presbytery of
Lauder, that the General Assembly's educational and missionary
schemes shall henceforth be supported by regular yearly collec-
tions in the church, or by a parochial association, or by both these
combined.
   Education.-In the parish there are four schools, all in the town
of Lauder; one parochial, and three unendowed. The branches
of instruction generally taught in two of these are, English read-
ing, writing, arithmetic, geography, practical mathematics, Latin,
French, and Greek. The other two schools, which are superin-
tended by ladies, are attended chiefly by girls, who, in addition to
reading, writing, and arithmetic, are taught also sewing. The
Bible is read frequently in each of the schools, and the shorter
catechism, psalms, and hymns are repeated, and occasionally ex-
plained. The parochial schoolmaster has the medium salary (L. 30),
and L. 5 yearly given him by the magistrates of Lauder from the funds
of the burgh, for teaching poor children. The other teachers are
supported solely by the school fees, which, as well as the fees ex-
acted by the parochial teacher, are, for reading, 2s. 6d.; for read-
ing and writing, 3s. 6d.; for these, with arithmetic and practical
mathmetics, 4s. 6d.; and for the higher branches, 6s. per quarter.
The general expense of education for the year, including the price


