
190			AYRSHIRE.

to apply for parochial aid. But there is a pretty numerous class of
the manufacturing population who have been taught to found their
claims for support not upon the statutes nor the legalized practice
of the nation, and still less upon the principles of Christian charity;
but upon some vague notions of natural right. It is not surprising
that some persons of this class should neither be very solicitous to
provide for their own independence, nor very reasonable in their de-
mands when they come to stand in need of relief.
	Fairs.--There are annually four fairs in Galston, none of which,
however, is of public importance. The most frequented are held
on the third Thursday of April, and on the first Thursday of De-
cember.
	Alehouses.--The number of alehouses or rather of whisky shops
is 14,--a number which will be thought by far too great for the
population. But little advantage would be gained by the mere di-
minution of their numbers, if the deleterious fluid which they retail
can be procured from the spirit-dealers at its present low price, and
consumed as it is at present in the drunkard's own house, and even
in the fields.
	There are now only four corn-mills and one lint or flax-mill.
The paper-mill mentioned in the former report still remains, and
two of the others have been converted into saw-mills.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	When the present state of the parish of Galston is compared
with what it was in 1790, it will certainly be found in many re-
spects to have undergone considerable changes, and, as far as out-
ward appearances are concerned, great improvements. The sys-
tem of agriculture is indeed nearly the same, and perhaps it is that
which is best suited to thd soil and climate. But the implements
with which the husbandman now labours are far more perfect, and
the skill and industry with which he conducts his operations much
greater. The hand of taste has also adorned the barren moors
with thriving woods and smiling pastures, and rendered the pros-
pect,from Molmont Hill fairer and more enchanting than ever. It
is in the moral aspect of this parish that any thing like decay or de-
terioration is to be found. The cotton manufacture, along with
wealth and population, has introduced its too frequent attendants,
vice and impiety. And although Galston has perhaps less reason
to be wail these unhappy changes than many parishes in a similar
situation, it must still furnish its quota to the accumulating mass
of practical evidence which  damps the benevolent aspirations of the


