
     of Kirkmichael.

   Ecclesiastical State, School, and Poor.-All the inhabitants
are of the Established Church.  An excellent and commodi-
ous church was built in 1787.  The stipend, including an al-
lowance for communion elements, amounts to 48 bolls of
meal, and L. 65: 15 sterling, in money, with a glebe of 14
acres, worth L. 10 per annum.-The king is patron.-
There is an established schoolmaster, whose salary is a pitiful
100 merks, paid by many different hands.  It is to be regret-
ted, that an office so laborious and useful should be so meanly
provided for.  The schoolmasters certainly deserve compas-
sion of the legislature, and it would be disgraceful to oppose a
reasonable augmentation of their salaries.-The poor, on
the parish roll, are from 16 to 20, very scantily provided for
on the whole, as the funds for their support, arising from the
interest of some mortified money, the collections at the church-
door, and the fines of delinquents, amount only to between
L. 20 and L. 30 per annum*.

<FOOTNOTE>

sation.  These are solid proofs of the increasing improvements of the country,
though at the same time it must be owned, that what has been said above is
not applicable to every individual.

   *The daily wages of carpenters are 1 s. of taylors, 7 d. and of masons, 1 s.
victuals included in each case; of day-labourers, from 8 d. to 1 s. in winter,
and from 10 d. to 15 d. in summer.  Men-servants employed in husbandry get;
L. 7, and women-servants L. 3 a year, with bed, board, and washing.  Wages
of every kind have risen one third at least within these 15 years.  The farm-
ers employ two kinds of men-servants, the one such as are called Cote-men,
who are married, and live on the farm, who receive what is called a benefit,
viz. a house and yard, a cow kept in grass and fodder, 6 and one-half bolls of
meal, liberty to plant a certain quantity of potatoes, from L. 4 to L. 6 in mo-
ney, and a stipulated measure of fuel led home; worth in all from L. 13 to
L. 15 sterling.  The other kind of men-servants are unmarried lads, living in
the farmers houses.  The wiser farmers chuse a mixture of these; as the
cote-men are steady, and the lads active.  If the wages are higher than for-


