
                        KILMORACK.                                367

little. The letting of large tracts of land to single individuals has
occasioned the banishment of many of them, who, for many generations,
possessed the soil. They have been forced to seek an asylum
in a foreign land, where they enjoy Nature's bounties in richer
abundance.
  In a parish of such extent, it is impossible to ascertain with
exactness the number of deaths, marriages, and births. Of the
first no register is kept; and there are so many Roman Catholics
in the Highland part of it, that even the marriages and births cannot
be ascertained. Of the Protestant population, however, the
averge number of baptisms for the last seven years may be reckoned
at 46 annually; and marriages, 9.
   The number of insane persons in the parish is 14, and of blind, 4.
   Character and Habits of the People.-In many of the western
parts of the country, the march of improvement has been very
slow, and the strongholds of superstition are not yet demolished.
The people are in general below the middle size, but uncommonly
hardy, and capable of enduring privation. They are
fond of performing long journeys in the night season; and it is
nothing strange to see a married man travelling with his horse and
cart a distance of thirty miles, without a bonnet on his head. The
language generally spoken in the inland part is the Gaelic, while,
in the eastern extremity, few are found, who cannot speak the
English. There is among all classes an earnest desire that their
children should acquire a knowledge of the latter. Little can be
said in praise of their sobriety. The quantity of ardent spirits
consumed is immense. A great deal, however, of that rioting at
marriages and funerals, which formerly existed, has been done
away with. Their favourite amusements are shinty matches and
dancing. They are particularly fond of being neat and clean:
and the ambition for articles of finery is widely spread among the
rising youth. Poaching and smuggling are now almost discontinned

IV. INDUSTRY.
    From the great extent of this parisb, and the various directions
in which the large and small farms lie, the number of acres
which are cultivated, in pasture, or under wood, cannot with any
certainty be determined, On the Lovat property, about 2000
acres may be in tillage; while, on the estate of the Chisholm
the average is about 900. The upper district of the parish is
in general pastoral; and much attention  is not paid to tillage,


