

                              WILTON.                        81

schools of Hawick.  Their situation is fully as comfortable as that
of their class in general, though, it must be granted, that manufact-
tories are commonly not the best schools of morality for youth.
In many instances, however, fathers who are slaubers or spinners
employ their own children as piecers; and the good conduct of
many children under the restraining influence of a parent's eye, has,
without doubt, a beneficial effect on others who have not the same
advantages.

  Since the inroductujion of the woollen manufactories into this
part of the country, the quantity of wool consumed has been gra-
dually and regularly increasing. In the year ending December
31,1828, there were manufactured in Hawick and Wilton parishes,
1,038,641 slips of yarn, and 432,201 pairs of hose; in the year
ending December 31, 1829, 1,010,641 slips of yarn, and 465,865
pairs of hose; and in the year ending December 31,1830,1,102,865
slips of yarn, and 488,487 pairs of hose; adn there is annually,
besides, a large quantity of yarn manufactured into blankets,
plaidings, and fannels.
                  V.-Parochail Economy.
   Market-Town, &c.-There is no market-town in the parish.
Wilton may be called the suburbs of Hawick, and is scarcely dis-
joined form it; nay, a small section of the parish actually forms a
part of the town of Hawick.  The grammar-school lately erected
there, an excellent building, but very incommodiously situated, is
in the parish of Wilton.
   Villages, &c.-There are three villages, or rather hamlets, in the
parish,-viz. Appletree Hall, towards the north; Langlands Dean,
in the south; and what may be called the village of Wilton.
   Means of Communication.-The nearest post-office is at Hawick,
and an excellent communication has lately been formed with that
This new approach runs through a small part of the glebe between
the church and the manse, and joins the present Edinburgh road,
at what is called Dovemount Well.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church hs almost equidistant
from either extremity of the parish. None of the church-going po-
pulation reside at more that two miles and a-half from the church;
and the Dissenters consider it as no inconvenience to travel half a
mile farther to their respective places of worship at Hawick.  The
present parish church was built in 1762, and very lately under-
went a considerable internal repair, and was handsomely painted.
  ROXBURGH.                        F


