
                                  SCONE.                       1057


    currence of many public events.   The ecclesiastical palace
    and abbey having been destroyed, the rest of the town may have
    also suffered.  It is probable however, that, as soon as the rights
    and possessions of the ancient abbey passed into the hands of the
    Gowrie family, a residence would be built.  It seems to have
    been erected between the abbey and the river, and perhaps was
    called a palace, as being nearly on the site of the palace occupied
    by the Bishop of Murray, and burned to the ground.  At all
    events, the Gowrie family appears to have had a residence at Scone
    in 1593.  The lands erected into a temporal lordship in favour
    of David Lord Scone, ancestor of the Stormont family, have ever
    since continued in their possession.  They consequently belonged
    to Viscount Stormont in 1651, when the coronation of Charles II.
    took place at Scone.  The circumstances of this coronation are
    minutely detahled in a small quarto printed at Aberdeen, entitled
    "The Form and Order of the Coronation of Charles the Second,
    King of Scotland, England, and France and Ireland, as it was
    acted and done at Scone, the first day of January 1651." From                          From.
    this account, it appears that the house partially built, probably                    'ably
    by the Gowrie family, and subsequently by Lord Scone or his de-
    scendants, was regarded in some respects as a palace.   We read
    of the King being conducted from his bed-chamber to his "cham-
    ber of presence," and that he was there placed in a chair, under

   <FOOTNOTE> From  a List of the Magistrates of Perth with such occurrences as happened
   under their magistracy, printed in the second volume of "The Muses Threnodie,
   Perth, 1774," we learn that John Earl of Gowrie was provost of Perth from 1592
   to 1600, although during part of that time he was abroad.  Sir David Murray of
   Gospetrie is entered under that title as provost in 1601, 1602, and 1603, but, in
   1604, he appears as David Lord Scone, and. in 1621, for the first time, as David
   Viscount Stormont.  The last vear in which he filled that office was 1627.  He was
   elected provost on 6th October 1628, but by a decree of the Lords of the Secret
   Council of the 21st February, the election was declared illegal.  The Viscount was
   laid aside and Peblis of Chapelhill elected in his room.  There were laws which
   prohibited noblemen or gentlemen not resident, nor bearing burden as citizens, to
   be elected into the magistracy.-Vid. Muses Then.  Vol. ii.  P. 113.
     Lord Scone, together witl Lord Binning and Lord Carnegy,   were his Majesty's
   Commissioners to the General Assembly, that met in the Old or St John's Kirk,
   on the 25th August 1618. "The Assembly met in the Little Kirk; Mr Spotiswood,
   Archbishop of St Andrews, placed himself in the moderator's chair without election,
   which was objected to.  The Arcbishop answered, that the Assembly was convened
   within his diocese, and he hoped no one would take his place." The King's letter
   to this Assembly was somewhat stern: He says, "Do not think we will be satisfied
   with refusals, or delays, or mitigations, and we know not what other shifts have been
   Proposed, for we will content ourselves with nothing but with a simple and direct
   acceptation of these article in the form by us sent unto  you." On  the 27th, the
   five articles received the suffrages of all the members except one nobleman, one doc-
   tor, and forty-five ministers. They were ratified in Porliament at Edinburgh,
   eighty-one voting for, and fifty-nine against, the ratification on Saturday 4th August
   1621, "called by the people," says  Calderwood, "the Black Saturday. It began
   with fire from earth in the morning, and ended fire from heaven in the evening."
   There had been a severe storm in the course of the afternoon of hail and lightning.

        PERTH.                                                      3 x




