
                              SLAINS.                          593

bushes are now dug up, having, in the most favourable season,
produced not more than two or three pints of fruit, and these never
fully ripened.  Buckthorn or marine-thorn has been successfully
introduced, and with the exception of the elder, thrives greatly
better than any other shrub the writer ever planted.  Under skil-
ful management, hedges might be formed of it, which, though they
could never prove a proper fence, would serve to beautify this
naked and bare district.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-There are only two land-owners,-Colonel Gor-
don of Cluny,-and Mr Gordon of Parkhill, whose property of
Leask amounts to nearly one-fifth valuation of the whole parish.
Neither of the proprietors reside I on their estates here.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial register extends back only
to the year 1722, and has not been very regularly kept, owing to
the neglect of parents to register.
   Antiquities.-The foundation of the old kirk of Forvie is still
visible, being the only vestige throughout the whole sands, com-
monly called the Links, which indicates that this district was once
the habitation of man.  Graves have been discovered around it,
but nothing found in them except a few bones.  On the estate of
Leask, there is another ruin of a religious house, evidently a Ro-
man Catholic chapel, as the place where the altar stood is plainly
discernible.  It is small, but must be considered fine old ruin,
and in a state of better preservation, if the term can be so applied,
than could be imagined from its supposed antiquity.  One gable
and Gothic window are still nearly entire, and thewalls are over-
grown with ivy.  It stands in the middle of a small plantation of
stunted firs and alder, on a little eminence gently rising from a
swampy bottom, with a rivulet half enclosing it on the south side.
It is called St Adamanna's chapel, and is said to have been
erected in the end of the sixth or commencement of the seventh
century in honour of that saint, who was a follower of St Colum-
be.  Its antiquity is problematical, as its present appearance does
not warrant a belief or its having been built at such a remeto pe-
riod.  The extensive ruins of the old Castle of Slains, once the
residence of the errol family, stans in this parish, on the top of a
rock jutting out into the sea, at an elevation of from 100 to 120
feet.  Previous to the use of cannon, it must have been almost on the
pregnable. the only approach to it being by a narrow defile on the
north, which a few resolute and daring men might have made good
   ABERDEEN.                                    P p


