
         		   KIRKOSWALD.    		783

derable extent. It was inhabited fifty years ago, and is now the
property of the Earl of Cassillis.
	Of the more modern buildings in this parish, the most remark-
able is Culzean castle, founded by David, late Earl of Cassillis, in
the year 1777. This noble edifice is situated upon a rock, project-
ing a little into the sea, of about 100 feet in height from the sur-
face of the water, and almost perpendicular. The style of the ar-
chitecture, and the execution of the work, are singularly elegant.
At a proper distance from the castle, stand the stables and farm-
houses. The castle commands a delightful prospect of the whole
Frith of Clyde, with a full view of the rock of Ailsa. On the land
side, and immediately below the castle, are the gardens belong-
ing to the old house of Culzean, formed out of rock, at a great ex-
pense, into three terraces; upon the walls of which are planted
some of the rarest and most delicate shrubs and trees, seldom
found growing in the open air. The remainder of the old gardens
is formed into pleasure-ground and gravel walks, kept with great
care. Round the castle, and the adjoining buildings, lies in ex-
tensive policy of about 700 acres, interspersed with many thriving
plantations.
	Near to the castle, and immediately under some of the build-
ings, are the coves or caves of Culzean. These are six in num-
ber. Of the three towards the west, the largest has its entry as
low as high-water mark; the roof is about 50 feet high; it ex-
of much the same irregular form. Towards the east, are the other
three coves, which likewise communicate with each other. They
are nearly of the same height and figure with the former; but
their extent has not been precisely ascertained. (Old. Stat. Account.)
	In the interior of the parish, there are very distinct remains of
a Druidical circle. Stone-coffins have been dug up, and found to
contain curious ornaments, some of which are in the possession of
the minister of the parish. Some years ago, a very curious spear
was discovered in a moss. On the shore, there is a vitrified fort,
which will reward the curiosity of the visitor.
        This parish is a good deal connected with the Life and works of
the poet Burns. In the summer of 1788, he attended school in
the village of Kirkoswald, where he seems to have been Placed in
consequence of his mother's connection with the parish, she being
the daughter of Gilbert Brown, tenant in Craigenton. While re-


