
2                       BUTESHIRE.

and if made in the presence of any Highlander in Arran, hir sur-
prise wliuld not be less than that of any Lowland Scot, whom he
might try to convince that "Bruce and Wallace were never heard
of in Scotland till lately."
	Boundaries.--The ecclesiastical division of Arran has been
made longitudinally. Kilbride occupies the whole of its east side,
except a couple of miles at its south end; and is spread over a
surface of country from 20 to 22 miles in length from the Cock of
Arran, a noted sea-mark at its northern extremity, to Dippin, a
farm in the south. It varies in breadth from 2 to 4 miles, or
4 1/2 miles from the shore to the top of a continuous range of
mountains, which separates it from the parish of Kilmorie. It
contains about 42,000 imperial acres.
	Topographical Appearances.--The most prominent feature in
the general aspect of the parish is its alpine character. The
greater proportion of it consists of mountains and high hills, which
present considerable variety of outline and appearance. From the
southern point of the parish to Brodick, their height is but mode-
rate, averaging not more than 800 feet above the level of the sea.
They rise for the most part in gentle acclivity from the cultivated
grounds near the shore; present few bold precipices or rugged
outlines, and are clothed with a mixture of green grass and brown
heather to their tops; but from Brodick to Lochranza their
character entirely changes. A considerable way up, a few of them
have the usual mountain covering; but many are bare precipices
from their very foundations; and the greater number raise their
naked tops to the sky in stupendous pyramids and spires of rough
granite. As seen from certain portions, they appear to the behold-
er as if they had but yesterday been upheaved from their primitive
beds, below the bottom of the ocean. The absolute height of
these mountains is not very great, the elevation of Goatfell (in
Gaelic Gaoth Cheinn, the mountain of winds), falling somewhat
short of 3000 feet. But presenting as they do,at a glance,their
full dimensions from the shore to their tops, and being congre-
gated together in one stupendous group, Goatfell, towering above
the rest, like a proud Highland chief surrounded by the cadets of
his clan, few scenes can in their general effect be more impressive-
ly grand and magnificent. In Scotland there is no alpine acenery
that can in all respects match them, except, perhaps, that of the
Cuchullin hills in Skye. These,mountains are intersected by deep
cories and narrow glens, whose dark aad sombre abysses produce
                                4


