
     Statistical Accounts

hundred years.  The place is exceedingly remote.  And
it is not likely that any, at that time, would have taken
up their residence there, had they not considered it as a
place where they were not in danger of being molested.
The master of the family has been a John Howie for
many generations, till within these few months, that
both father and son-both Fobus, died.
   Improvements may be said to be only in their infan-
cy; here the tenant goes on in the same old way that
his father did before him.  They are beginning, how-
ever, to be at more pains with their farms in many re
spects, and it is to be hoped, that the  succcess of some
may stir up others.  There are hundreds of acres which
will not be touched till the country is every where in a
higher state of cultivation than it is present.  But
there are few farms where, with a little expense, much
might not  be added, if not the corn fields, at least to
the meadow and grass grounds.  But the farmer uses
the meadow which his predecessors have made ready for
him, and never thinks of adding any to it, how easily
soever it may be done. Some years ago, they began to
work some of the bent ground, as it is called, which
never had been ploughed before.  The corns, where it

<FOOTNOTE>

*The family were much distressed during the troubles in the reigns of
Charles and James, in the last century.  They preserve here the colours
that belonged to this parish, when the covenanters tool; arms and which
they had with them at the battle of Rothwell Bridge, with the sword of
a Captain Paton of this parish, and some other things, which are considered
as precious relicks of them who were engaged in that good work.  There
are 3 or 4 of what are called martyr-stones, erected to the memory of
those who were shot to death in this palce.  And there is a cuve called
Duntonlove, in which, it is said, that they had themselves at tunes from
the enemy.  It does not appear to me over to have been of much use for
that purpose, though, indeed, from the lapse of a century, its appearnce
may be much changed.


