
326                        FORFARSHIRE.

number of knaps which formerly existed in it, but which, owing to
the superior cultivation of the ground, have now almost entirely
disappeared. "Knap" is a Scoto-Gothic word signifying round
or globe-shaped, and hence the name came to be applied to a
round hillock. Until of late, a long line of these knaps could be dis-
tinctly traced, running along from the sea to the highest point in
the parish. Besides Knap o'Castle, there is Cotton Knap, Knap
of Cothill, the two Knaps of Newton, Dale's Knap (vulgarly cal-
led Deil's Knap,) and some others. In fact, almost every eminence
seems to have had it's knap. These knaps, so universal through-
out Scotland, had been evidently used as beacons or signal posts,
to give notice of alarm on the approach of an enemy. For
this purpose, large fires were lighted up, and a line of knaps in
the direction of the enemy were, in a few hours, seen to blaze.
That this was the use to which they were appropriated, tradition
amply testifies; and it is farther proved by the large quantity of
ashes which are found when any of them are demolished. It is
difficult, however, to account for the knaps in this parish being all
so near to each other. Almost every farm had its knap.  It was
a very ancient practibe throughout the whole of Scotland, (and, in
many places, it is still kept up,) for the relations of the dead, the
day after the funeral, to carry the chaff and bed-straw on which
the person had died, to some hillock or knap in the neighbourhood
of the house, and there burn them. It is probable, that these knaps
had been used for that purpose, which would account for almost
every farm town having its knap.
	The only other place in the parish which we shall mention, as
connected with any antiquity, is Arbikie, which lies on the south-
west extremity of the parish. The name seems to be derived
from Ardbiccon, the high little summit. A little to the west of
this, accordingly, there is a small conical artificial mount, with
wbieb is connected a dorsum or ridge, about seven yards in breadth,
which can be traced to the distance of 120 yards. A range of
little tumuli, at equal distances, succeed. These are in the same
line with ridge or dorsum, and extend about 800 yards.  A
little behind, and exactly opposite the termination of the dorsum,
is another artificial cone, somewhat larger than the former. The
name of a small loch, at a little distance, called  "Cathie Loch,"
(the Gaelic word Cath signifying a battle,) indicates the purpose
for which thew bad been formed. It appears, then, that a battle
had once been fought here, and that these tumuli and ridges were


