
                        RENFREW.                          25

   The Trust on the river Clyde have their chief establishment,
in this parish.  They occupy about 15 men ashore.  These are
employed as smiths, hammermen, carpenters, wrights, and sawyers,
earning from 12s. to L. 1 per week.  During summer they occupy
about 36 men aboard of their vessels.  These are partly engineers
and others in special trust; but chiefly labourers or puntmen, who
earn 15s. per week.  There are also, perhaps, 80 men employed
ashore, in connection with the punts and dredging-machines; but
these move from place to place along the river.  A considerable pro-
portion of the whole, and especially of the two former classes, live
within this parish.
   Near the river Trust establishment there is, and has long been,
a distillery, manufacturing whisky from malt, made, partly from bar-
ley, and partly from bear or bigg, dried with peat.  The annual
produce of this distillery may be estimated at 140,000 gallons.
About 22 men are cnnstantly employed here, receiving from 12s.
to 16s. per week of wages.  Connected with the distillery, there is
a large dairy, consisting of about 100 milch cows.  During winter
they are fed on turnips, draft, &c.; and in summer they are pas-
tured.  The produce is chiefly sent to Glasgow.  This employs five
men, three dairy maids, and four milkers.
   The coal-works before described employ between 30 and 40 men
and boys under ground, and several on the hill; and a considerable
number of men and horses find work in carrying the coal.  A col-
lier's wages probably average from 15s. to 18s. per week, when he is
regularly employed; but there are many interruptions and particular
expenses to which he is incident; and the employment itself, is
neither agreeable nor healthy.  Speaking of the colliers in this pa-
rish, it is proper to mention, that they are, with a few exceptions,
not inattentive to divine ordinances, and decent in moral conduct ;
and that one of them is a worthy and estimable xnember of the
kirk-session.
   Navigation.-This burgh once occupied a much more import-
ant place in respect of navigation than it does at present.  In the
charter of 1644, it is described as, the principals sea-port on the
river; and it continued to have a little trade within the recollection
of some now living.  At present, there are no vessdls belonging to
Renfrew, except such as carry coals, manure, &c. on the river.
A considerable number of vessels, however, load, and unload at the
harbour.  Those discharging are chiefly laden with grain from Ire-
land, and dye-stuffs, &c, for Paisley.  Potatoes also, and fish, &c. are


