
     of Tyrie.

L. 60 to less than L. 40 sterling.  The number of poor on the
roll in 1783, was from 28 to 34; The number presently on the
roll is 15; of which 3 are natives, 5 have resided for some years,
and 7 for a few years.  The number has never been so small since
1781, and the stock, by saving in good years, has got up to
about L. 50 sterling.  Most of the above 15 have been redu-
ced to poverty by old age and distempers.  Three distributions
are made in the year; and some paupers receive almost every
week, according to their necessities.-Sir William Forbes
causes meal be given weekly from his granary, gratis, to eve-
ry poor person in his estate, which enables the church-session
to bestow more on those in the other estates; and there is on-
ly one common beggar in the parish, who, being of a wander-
ing disposition, will not stay at his home.  The superabundance
of fine fuel induces old infirm people to take up their residence
near the mosses.  In a few years the poor's box must main-
tain them, and pay nurses to take care of them, and when
they die must defray the expence of their interments.  When
a person is put upon the poor's roll, and exposed in the num-
ber of paupers, he often loses the sense of shame, becomes
mean-spirited, greedy, and the companion of mendicants.
A discretionary power should be given to some proper person
in every parish, to bellow charity, in such a private manner,
as never to be heard of*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The antient price of 1 lb. of beef was from 1 d. to 1 d. halfpenny; the
present, from 2 d. halfpenny to 4 d. Veal, mutton, lamb, pork, are much a-
bout the same price.  The price of a hen, about 40 years ago, was from 2 d.
halfpenny to 4 d. the present, from 6 d. to 8 d.  The price of 14 eggs was 1 d.
the present price is from 3 d. to 4 d. for 12 eggs.  Butter was, about 40 years
ago, from 2 d. halfpenny to 3 d. halfpenny per 1 b. of 20 ounce, Dutch weight:
it now gives from 6 d. to 7 d. Barley meal is from 5 d. to 7 d. per peck; oat-
meat from 7. to 10 d. flour from 14 d. to 18 d. per peck.- A man-servant's


