
                        PAISLEY.                             145

sited it in 1645, as appears from the records of presbytery and town-
council.  A pleurisy is particularly mentioned as having prevailed
to a considerable extent in the year 1771.  Influenza raged exten-
sively in the spring of 1803, and in the end of the years 1830 and
1831.  At present (January 1837) influenza is raging to a great
extent here, as in many other parts of Scotland.  Dysentery
raged violently in 1765.  Since that time, it seems not to have
prevailed to any great extent till the year 1828 when it spread
to an alarming degree, and carried off many valuable lives. Ty-
phus fever has for some years past greatly prevailed, and in
many instances has proved fatal.  In spring. of 1834, small-pox
made its appearance in the town, and continued more or less
during that year.  Sixty-one deaths are recorded as having taken
place in consequence of this disease, forty-three in the town,
and eighteen in the Abbey parish.  In almost all of these in-
stances, the individuals carried off had not been previously vac-
cinated ; and it is a well established fact, that till that year, Since
vaccination was practised, few cases of variolous infection had ap-
peared.  The confinement, and sedentary life of the operative
manufacturer, may perhaps account, in part, for those consumptive
ailments, which are of frequent occurrence.
   Cholera.-Paisley was visited by cholera asphyxia in 1832.
Previous to its arrival, a board of health was formed, and the most
prompt measures were used for cleaning the streets and alleys of
the town, white-washing and fumigating infected or suspected
houses, liberally distributing flannel clothing to. the poorer classes,
and supplying them with nourishing food.  Two places, were fitted
up as hospitals, and the medical faculty were in constant attend-
ance.  The number of cases in all was 769 ; and of the individu-
als seized, 446 died.  It attacked chiefly the intemperate and dig-
sipated in the humbler ranks, though others, of better condition
and habits, but of feeble constution, fell victims to its violence.
It appeared first at Paisley, on 13th Feb 1832, and entirely
left in December following.  The greatest number of cases on one
day was nine. Cholera again made its appearance in 1834, and
carried off 140.  But as no cases were reported that year, it is
impossible to give any correct account of the number a individu-
als seized.
   Hydrography.-The White Cart is the principal river in the
parish.  It rises in the hilly grounds between Eaglesham and
Kilbride, and, after having formed for a few miles the boundary


