
494                        FORFARSHIRE.

tains either the actual strata of the country to the westward, or at
least their analogous representatives. The amygdaloidal trap and
other pyrigenous rocks there form the foundation of the stratifi-
ed metamorphic rocks, which are interposed between the former
and the red sandstones, and the conglomerate or gravel rock; and
the whole of them have their bearing to the south-west. Trap
tuff, or altered conglomerate and slate-clay, lie next to the pyri-
genous rock, and this is found to crop out now and then in this
south-west direction, at Newton, Park Hill, and Mill of Letham,
associated with its slate-clay passing into clay porphyry, as the,
later geologists affirm, by its proximity to the supposed formerly
heated mass. The kinds of rock which prevail mostly through-
out the parish are two, the old red sandstone, and a soft variegat-
ed sandstone. These are both particularly described by Profes-
sor Fleming of King's College, Aberdeen, in the second volume
of the Transactions of the Wernerian Society. What may be the
thickness of the first or old red sandstone, it, is not easy to deter-
mine. The general dip of the strata is towards the south-east,
the valley of the Vinney forming the anticlinal axis, for north-
ward of that the dip is in an opposite direction. The dip is sel-
dom below ten or above twenty-five degrees. Excellent quarries
are now being wrought at the Whitingness to a great extent,
for building the new harbour of Arbroath. This stone, of which
the greater part of Arbroath is built, is not very pleasing to the
eye, but it is easily wrought, and the lime takes a firm hold of it,
On the south side of some dikes built of it near the sea, the stones
are weathered or honey-combed in so regular a manner, that they
might form models for the rustic in architecture. This rock is
No. 2 of Lyell's section.
   Accompanying this rock, and superior to it, there is a gravel
stone or sandstone conglomerate, which, in some places, as at
Whitingness, appears unconformable, covering the outcroppings
of the other old sandstone, and more horizontal in its layers; yet,
upon extensive examination, it may be found alternating with this
latter, and, therefore, must be considered of contemporaneous de-
position. This conglomerate consists of boulders of granite, gneiss,
mica-slate, quartz, porphyry, jasper, and the various species of
trap rocks, with their enclosed minerals. These boulders are im-
bedded in a most cohesive hard cement, and their rocky structure
may be seen to great advantage on the mural precipice at the
shore of Auchimithie. Pebbles of the toughest and hardest quartz


