
162                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

ed. Much has been done in the last four years to improve the
pavements and causeways; and, a gas-work having been establish-
ed, the principal streets are now tolerably lighted. The chief
employment of the inhabitants is, as already mentioned, manufac-
turing. There is a weekly corn-market, held on Wednesday, at
which considerable quantities of grain are sold. It is by much
the most important market within the county. The National
Bank of Scotland and the Glasgow Union have each a branch
here. At the last revision of the roll of electors for the county,
the number of electors deriving qualifications from property in the
town was 72. In the land ward part of the parish, the number
was 61; total, 133.
   There is only one place deserving the name of a village, viz.
Armadale, two miles west from the town of Bathgate.
   Means of Communication.-The post-office here receives letters
twice a-day from the east, and once from the west. But the dis-
patch of letters is not so convenient, the letter-bags being all made
up at night. The communications by roads are on all hands very
commodious, and the roads in general well kept. The turnpike-
road from Borrowstownness towards Lanark runs for about four
miles and a-half through the parish, and the middle Edinburgh
and Glasgow road for a trifle more than seven. On the latter
there travelled for some years from twelve to eighteen stage-
coaches daily. All have been given up since the railway was open-
ed. Good bridges are found wherever bridges are needed. The
fences consist chiefly of thorns, with here and there a considera-
ble mixture of beech. Much attention, has been paid to them;
and generally they are in pretty good order. An act has been ob-
tained for a railway from Bathgate to the Slamanan Railway; but
there is little likelihood of its being soon acted upon.
   Four mills in the parish, two provided with steam-engines, af-
ford all facility for making flour, meal, and pot-barley.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated in the town
of Bathgate, and stands very near the centre of the parish, being
very little more than four miles from the western, and about three
miles and a-half from the eastern end of the parish. Only two
families are above four miles from it. Though built in 1739, it
is in very good repair. But, built when the population was not
much more, if more at all, than one-third of its present amount,
it has become totally inadequate to the number of inhabitants. It
is seated (at the rate of 18 inches a-sitting) for 719 persons. Ac-


