
56			   WIGTONSHIRE.

<TABLE=POPULATION>
			III.--POPULATION.
   The population of this parish in 1831, amounted to 2415, viz.
   In the burgh of Whithorn                                                    1305
   In the Isle of Whithorn,                                                     413
   In the country,                                                              697
      Number of families in the parish,                                         586
                         employed in agriculture,                               102
                                  in trade, manufactures, and handicraft,       151
                all other families,                                             333
     Character, &c. of the People.--The chief occupation is agricul-
ture, and such pursuits as are requisite for the improvement of the
soil. The families originally belonging to the parish are gene-
rally sober, honest, and industrious; the families which have im-
migrated from Ireland are not deserving of such a character. Po-
tatoes are the principal food of the Irish families during three-
quarters of the year, and even in labourers' families of Scottish
descent, occupy a chief place both at dinner and supper.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The whole surface of the parish is arable, except-
ing a small extent of peat-moss, a few marl bogs, and the knolls
with which the surface is occasionally broken. The extent of
meadow land is small, not exceeding 200 acres. Plantations are
confined to a few rows and clumps, excepting around the mansion-
house of Castlewigg, where forest trees cover a larger extent of
ground.
   Rent of Land.--The rent varies much according to locality and
quality. Crofts in the immediate vicinity of the burgh and the
Isle of Whithorn, which are let out in small extent for the accom-
modation of the inhabitants, rent on an average as high as L. 3
per imperial acre; large farms of the best description of soil at
L. 1, 10s. and inferior farms from 12s. to 16s. per imperial acre.
The rent of the parish is about L. 9000 yearly.
   Rent of Wages.--Ploughmen of the first excellence, living in the
farmer's house, receive from L. 10, 10s. to L. 12, 12s. yearly.
Workmen living in their own families generally receive a benefit,
which prevents the amount of their wages from being accurately
ascertained,--as that to a certain extent depends on the price of
provisions; but it may be fixed somewhere betwixt L. 20 and L. 25
yearly. Female servants receive from L. 2, 5s. to L. 3 the half
year; male labourers in the summer 1s. 4d. to 1s. 6d.; and fe-
males 8d. to 9d. a-day. During the harvest, males and females
earn the same wages; in ordinary harvests about 2s. per day with-
out meat, and 1s. 6d. with food; occasionally 2s. 6d. and even 3s.
without food; masons, 2s. 6d., and joiners, 2s. 3d. without board.


