
118                       ARGYLESHIRE.

twixt the open ocean and the many narrow straits and lochs to
which the Sound of Mull is, from the west, the inlet.
   Situation and Extent.-Two districts, Ardnamurchan and Su-
nart, are in Argyleshire; the other three, Moidart, Arasaig, and
South Morir are in the county of Inverness.  The measurement
of the former is 87,753 acres Scotcb, that of the latter the writer
has in vain tried to procure.  It is in all probability a good deal
more than that of the Argylesbire portion of the parish.  The ex-
tent of the whole is estimated in the last Statistical Account at
200,000 acres, a moderate computation.
   Boundaries.-The parish is bounded on the south-west by the
northern end of the Sound of Mull; on the south, by Loch Su-
nart, which winds eastward betwixt it and Morven.  At the upper
end of this locb, both parishes are conterminous for a mile or so.
On the east, it is bounded by the district of Kingertoth, in the
parish of Lismore; on the east and north-east, by those of Ard-
gower, Lochiel, and Locharkaig, in the parish of Kilmalie, the
boundary line passing, it is said in the old Statistical Account,
" over a range of ten mountains, by as many alternate ascents and
descents;" certainly over a country rugged and mountainous in
the extreme.  On the north, it is bounded by Lochmorir and the
river issuing from it, which divide it from Northmorir, in the pa-
rish of Glenelg; and on the north-west and west, by that part of
the Atlantic which washes the opposite shores of Skye and the
Small Isles.
   Topoqraphy.-It is difficult to take a connected view, or to com-
municate a general idea, of a parish of such vast extent and di-
versified conformation.  It may, however be described as a broad
stretch of rugged mainland, branching into the sea in several
points and promontories, the most southern Df which the noted
headland of Ardnamorchan, is by far the most prominent.
   In attempting a particular description, it may assist imagination
to follow the immemorial division into districts, which appears to
have been determind at some remote period, abcording to great
natural landmarks.  The peninsula or district of Ardnamurchan,
properly so called, consists of a range of rather low bills running
from the well-known point in an easterly direction to the distance
of about twenty-four miles, nowhere less than four and a-half, nor
exceeding seven miles in breadth.  For ten or twelve miles from
the point, the hills are of the secondary or transition series, and in
some places afford pasture of the finest quality.  A large portion,


