
			CREICH.				633

versing the northern extremity of the parish, of great value for
many practical purposes. It occurs in columnar concretions, usu-
ally termed basaltic pillars, in consequence of which it is easily
quarried. It is readily dressed to any given form, splits easily in
a direction across the columns, emits a striking ringing sound,
especially when in thin slabs, and is of a uniformly dark colour.
It resists the action of the weather, constituting an extremely dur-
able building material. Where it has suffered by atmospheric in-
fluence it exhibits a laminar or stratified structure, a circumstance
from which it is natural to conclude that it is a sedimentary rock.
When used as road metal it is easily broken, being somewhat brit-
tle, tbough it resists the bruising effects of wheels, and is thus va-
luable on account of its durability. It forms the hills of Craigen-
crune, Blackcraig, Greencraig, Craigsimmy, Craiglug, Lochy-hill,
and the Blackcraig of Carphin,-the same bed extending west-
ward through the parishes of Abdie and Flisk, constituting the
heights of Norman's Law and Glenduckie. In consequence of
this rock decomposing slowly, its soil is scanty, and does not ap-
pear so favourable to vegetation as that which is produced by the
amygdaloid in which it is imbedded.
   Occupying a similar position in the amygdaloid masses of com-
pact felspar, may be observed a considerable portion of one of these
rocks, as exposed to view at the north-west side of Lochyhill, con-
stituting a range of columns apparently underlying the clinkstone of
which the bill in general is composed. The rock is more or less
porphyritic, and, when injured by atmospheric influence, it splits in
various directions, forming irregular angular blocks. At the north
side of the Blackeraig of Carphin, there is a bed of gray sandstone,
which may be traced a few hundred yards at the base of the hill,
and apparently imbedded in the amygdaloid, and in the immediate
vicinity of the clinkstone. A quarry was opened in this rock a few
years ago, and building materials of considerable value were ob-
tained. The sandstone occurs in thick beds, with interposed layers
of slate clay, and the whole, according to the present section, co-
vered with slate clay or camstone. It is similar, in its relations and
character to a sandstone which occurs at Birkhill, about two miles
to the eastward, and is considered as the equivalent of the Kin-
goody stone, so extensively quarried to the westward of Dundee
and on the north side of the estuary of the Tay. The amygda-
liod is traversed by numerous small veins of calcareous spar, quartz,
agate and jasper. Viens, however, of a greater size, and such as



