
                        PORT OF MENTEITH.                1103

   mendator of Inchmahome, afterwards Lord Erskine, and more
   lately Earl of Mar and Regent of Scotland, together with the
   parson of Balmaclellan.  From Inchmahome, the Court moved
   to Dumbarton Castle, that Queen Mary might be in the way
   when a fleet should arrive from France, to transport her thither.
   The Queen-motber, indeed, had, during her residence in Inch-
   mahome,, gone to Stirling for the arrangement of the voyage, and
   of her daughter's marriage to the Dauphin. *
     About this time, a scuffle took place in the neighbourhood, be-
   tween the Appin Stewarts and the Grahams of Monteith.   The
   principals in the quarrel were the Earl of Monteith and Stewart
   of Invernaheill, Tutor of Appin, and, from his faculty of beating
   with a couple of forehammers at once on the smith's anvil, known
   popularly as Donald nan Ord, or oft he hammers.  An illustrious
   author, in his very curious history of Donald the Hammerer, has
   omitted what local tradition reports, that the Stewarts were re-
   turning from the defeat of Pinky.  He was unaware, when he
   wrote, that the scene of the scuffle was close to Tobernareal, the
   Clare Fontane of the district, being a remarkable spring of water
   on the top of the ridge, as the traveller goes from Monteith to
   Strathgartny, and comes in sight of Benledi and Loch Venachar.
   The occasion of the broil, indeed, as reported by tradition, and
   stated by the author above alluded to, was unworthy of human
   nature.  The mountain strangers, retreating from a hard-fought
   but disastrous field, had, under the pressure of hunger, help-
   ed themselves, unceremoniously, in a tavern at the Church of
   Port, to some poultry on the spit, which were intended for the
   dinner of a marriage party, of which the Earl of,Monteith was
   one, and had set off, on their way home, without stopping till the
   arrival of those for whom the dinner was intended, and without
   leaving an apology.    The Earl, conceiving that an affront had
   been deliberately offered him, pursued them, and came up with
   them at Tobernareal.  To a taunt from one of his atten-
   dants, the reply by one of the Highlanders was a speech in the
   same taste, and an arrow through the heart.   The Earl himself
   fell by the ponderous arm of Invernaheal, or Donald of the Ham-
   mers.  Ndarly all the Lowlanders were killed.   One of the slain
   was Alexander Graham, paternal ancestor of John Graham of Duch-

<FOOTNOTE> Lesly's Vernacular History, p.203-4.


