
				FALKLAND.                             931

	not, there can be no question that traces of ancient military works
	still remain upon these heights.
	  "Some think," says Sibbald,\f "that the station or camp of
	the ninth legion was where the tower of Falkland stands now."
	We are disposed to believe that this opinion is correct. On the
	estate of Nuthill, to the west of the town of Falkland, the remains
	of Roman entrenchments may still be traced.
	  While treating of the antiquities of the parish we may mentions,
	that in Slezer's Theatrum Scotice (in folio), two large engravings
	of the palace are given, wbich represent it as it appeared about the
	year 1690. One of the views is taken from the north, and pre-
	sents the interior court. In the east wing all the statues are
	entire, and there are two on each buttress,-one in the niche,
	and the other above the capital of the pillar.
	  The other view is an external one, taken from the east side of
	the town, where the Pleasance is now built. It represents the
	east wing of the palace as much more entire than it appears at
	present. The east port of the town or arched gateway is de,-
	scribed as it then existed.  It stood at the south-east angle of the
	palace, having a porter's lodge upon the north side, where the gar-
	den wall now runs. In this engraving we are also favoured with a
	view of the old homely town houses with its diminutive spire.
	  Eminent Men.-Among the eminent men connected with Falk-
	land must be classed David, first Viscount of Stormont, the an-
	cestor of the Earls of Mansfield. He built the present church,
	and his armorial bearings, as well as those of his lady, Elizabeth,
	daughter of David Beatoun of Creich, are beautifully carved in
	oak on the front of the gallery in the north aisle. The Beatouns
	of Creich were the original keepers of the palace, and therefore it
	is highly probable that Viscount Stormont's connection with that fa.
	mily might partly be the cause of his obtaining the office. His ori-
	ginal designation was David Murray of Gospetrie. He was knight-
	ed and appointed comptroller of the household in 1599. In the
	events connected with the Gowrie conspiracy the year following,
	be rendered the king important service, and James seems to have
	been grateful; for Sir David received charters of the barony of
	Segy in Kinross, and of the castle stead of Falkland, with the
	office of Ranger of the Lomonds and Forester of the Woods in
	1601, and of Glendovich, Balinblae, and Nuthill in 1602. Three
	years afterwards he was created Lord Scone. Murray was a great

<Footnote>His Life, p. 71.

