
                           BRESSAY.                              13

     One family only of independent fortune resides in the parish,-
and this in Bressay, only during summer.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture.- Measurement by acres is here unknown, and that
by mark land, which has been used for time immemorial, is, and
has been, for many years, ill defined and arbitrary. Originally,
a mark of land must have been a definite measure, and pro-
bably a measure only of cultivated land. But as every small
farm has a portion of pasture or uncultivated ground belonging
to it, an industrious tenant does what he can to add to the cul-
tivated space as much as be can spare from the pasture. In
some places, a mark signifies a space equal to an acre, and in
others only to half an acre.
     Certainly it would be far better, in order to prevent erroneous
calculations and disappointments, that farms in this country were
measured precisely by acres as in the south.
     In this and most parishes here, the cultivated land is often not
a third, or a fourth, or not nearly so much of the waste land or
undivided common. The rental land, or that which has been in
cultivation from olden times, consists in

<TABLE>

                  Bressay and Noss, of 342 marks.
                  Burra,               252
                  Hevera,               18
                  Quariff,              93

     Rent.- The average rent of land in the three districts is L.1
per mark, with public burdens. But perhaps the outsets, or small
farms occasionally let from the common, may make the cultivated
space amount to a third more than what has been stated. The
rental land connected with any hamlet or township, as it is called,
lies in run-rig among the tenants. The outsets lying by them-
selves and unfettered by the system of run-rigr, and being some-
times enclosed, possess by these means greater facilities for im-
provement, than the other.
     Husbandry.- The mode of cropping from time immemorial, has
been by oats and bear alternately on the infield, with potatoes
once in four or five years. The manure employed is a compost
of moss earth, dung, and sea-weed; the earth being taken from
the common during summer, and mixed with the dung as it accu-
mulates, and with the sea-weed as it casts up. The offals, of her-
ring are also considered an excellent manure.
     A good many years ago, the proprietor of Bressay brought a
grieve from Berwickshire to manage the farm annexed to the


