
               MAINS AND STRATHMARTINE.                     65

the dues of the other to Lord Douglas; and disputes are settled
by persons appointed by his Lordship.
   Alehouses.-There are six small alehouses in the parish, three
of which are toll-houses. They are felt as a great nuisance to the
sober and industrious part of the population.
   Fuel.-Coals from Sunderland, imported at Dundee, are the
only fuel used in the parish; and the carriage by water is not a
heavy addition to the expense.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

Since the last Statistical Account was written, many changes of
much importance have taken place in the parish. The increase of
population has been in the manufacturing, and not in the agricul-
tural class. By the introduction of machinery and improved im-
plements, the manual labour employed in husbandry is gradually
diminishing; and, notwithstanding the extent of ground that has
been reclaimed from barrenness, perhaps the number of agricul-
tural labourers was never smaller than at the present moment.
   It is said in the last Statistical Account of Mains, that the
erection of the first spinning-mill was then scarcely completed.
Its history is not one of continued prosperity. Gre`t profits
were occasionally realized, cherishing sanguine hopes, which were
blasted by sudden and extensive losses. The property has fre-
quently changed owners; and about twelve years ago, the works
were diverted from their original purposes, and now constitute a
part of the premises of the Claverhouse Bleaching Company. The
mills that were erected at a later period have undergone similar
changes. In the course of the last ten years, however, the linen
trade has been greatly increased; improved machinery has been in-
troduced; a much greater quantity of work has been performed;
experience has taught us how former errors may be avoided; the
mills have been greatly enlarged, and have been actively, and for the
most part profitably, employed.
   The bleachfields have likewise been greatly increased and im-
proved. Not only has the linen trade been much extended; but
a finer fabric of cloth is now manufactured. Improved modes of
bleaching have been adopted; and this branch of business is now
in such a flourishing state, that new works would be erected if they
were not opposed by the neighbouring proprietors as a public nui-
sance. Trade and manufactures have advanced more within the
vale of the Dighty, in the course of the last forty years, than they

   FORFAR.                           E


