
			LEITH.				    771

                     II.-POPULATION.
<TABLE=The population of the different parishes in 1841 was as follows:>

North Leith, 8492.                                  South Leith, 19,776
               Population in 1801,                    15,272
                             1821,                    26,000
                             1831,                    25,855
                             1841,                    26,026

                        III.-INDUSTRY.
   Manufactures.-Messrs Gillon and Company's establishment
for the preservation of all kinds of fresh meat and vegetables for
naval stores, & c. was commenced in 1838. The principle of this
manufactory consists in cooking and enclosing in air-tight tin cases
all sorts of soups, flesh and fish, and vegetable substances, and
carefully excluding all contact with atmospheric air. In this way
the various meats keep in all climates for many years, and afford a
most convenient supply of provisions for travellers and voyagers.
Milk, cream, gravies, and jellies for invalids are also included in
these ingenious processes. The tin cases used in the process are
manufactured within the establishment. They are of various sizes,
containing from half a pound to several pounds weight; and from
800 to 1000 of these cases are prepared and filled daily. The
prices of the various articles, considering that the meat is free of
all bones, and many of the dishes highly concentrated, are not
much above the ordinary values of their respective substances.
The demand for these articles, both for home and foreign con-
sumpt, is always more than even this extensive establishment can
well accomplish. Some of the rejected oily matters of the, cooking
process are sold for greasing machinery; and other substances are
purchased at a moderate price by the poor in the neighbourhood.
   An establishment for the refining of sugar upon an extensive
scale contributes in some degree to the prosperity of the town. It
gives employment directly to upwards of eighty persons, consumes
annually nearly 4000 tons of coals, which are chiefly sea-borne,
and previously to the late reduction of the sugar duties, paid to
the revenue from L. 80,000 to L. 90,000 per annum in duties on
sugart alone.
   The North British Paint and Colour work was commenced
about twelve years ago, where all kinds of mine, colours and
copal varnishes are manufactured to a large extent giving employ-
ment to a greater number of hands than any similar establishment
in Great Britain, including various professions of trades such as
coopers, tinsmiths, blacksmiths, joiners, &c. The proprietor,



