
                      PARISH OF DUNSE.

          PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

            THE REV. GEORGE CUNNINGHAME, MINISTER.



                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries.-THE ancient name of the town and pa-
rish of Dunse was Duns, from the Celtic Dhun or Dun, a hill;
the ancient site of the town having been towards the north-west
side of a beautiful hill called Dunse-Law, till it was burnt by the
English. From this circumstance,the fields occupying the space in
which the town was formerly situated are now called Brunton.
Soon after the year 1588 the present town began to be built in a
lower situation on the skirts of the southern side of the hill, from
which the town derives its name; then the name was corrupted
into Dunse.
   The extreme length of the parish is about 6 miles from south-
east to north-west; its mean breadth about 3 1/2; so that its extent in
square miles is about 18 or 19 miles. Its figure is so irregular as
not to admit of any more exact description, than that, towards its
northern and southern extremities, its breadth is between three and
four miles, and in the middle, less than two miles. It is bound-
ed by the parish of Edrom on the east, south, and south-east; by
BunKle and a detached part of Longformacus on the north-east;
by Abbey St Bathans on the north; and by another part of Long-
formacus and by Langton on the west.
   Topographical Appearances.-The Lammermoor range of hills
runs along the northern side of the parish; in which may be in-
cluded Cockburn-Law, about 912 feet above the level of the sea,
the conical figure of which, so different from the gibbous shape of
the neighbouring hills, renders it a land-mark to mariners coming
from the east. There are scarcely any valleys or absolutely flat
lands in the parish; but in the south and east, which are the most
fertile parts of it, the ground, to the extent of two or three square-
miles, rises into gentle swells, ranging from a point north of east
to a point south of west; from which circumstance the meridian


