
                                 GREENOCK.                        457
                                                                                                      GREEN                                 457
      tenants only; but Easter Greenock and Cartsburn being afterwards
      annexed to the parish, it was found necessary to add proportion-
      ally to the size of the church, That addition was made accord-
      ingly about the year 1670, since which time the walls remain as
      theystood at that pe.  Agreeably to ancient PM0licc a certoin
      amount of area was all that was provided by the 1 heritors. Each
      heritnr -and feuar erected his own pew, according to his own taste,
      so that the whole presented a very motley appearance, t'lli about
      forty years ago, when the seats in the lower part of the church were
      renewed.  The church is capable of containing about 850 persons
      at 18 inches to each, but, on sacramental and other occasions, it
      bas been made to accommodate considerably more than that
      number.
        Complaints having long been made of the low and unhealthful
      site, of this church, the subject was brought under consideration of,
      the heritors and presbytery; and, after a tedious process before
      the presbytery, a decree was granted for the erection of a new
      church, to contain not fewer than 1200 persons. It is now build-
      ing in an elevated part of the town, after a very beautiful plan by
      Mr David Cousin, architect in Edinburgh, and will accommodate-
      1400 persons.
        The stipend from teinds is 18 chalders. half meal and half bar-
      ley, with L. 10 for communion elements, besides whickthe MM'I to-
      ter is entitled, under the authority of a decision of the Court of.'
      Session, to an annuity of L.25, originally secured by bond volun-
      tarily granted to one of his predecessors by the town of Greenock,
      and now paid out of the funds of the incorporation. The manse-
      is in very bad repair. About seven years ago the presbytery de-
      clared it to be insufficient, and ordained it to be rebuilt, but cir-
      cumstances have hitherto prevented the decree from being car-
      ried into effect. The whole of the glebe is feued, excepting the
      ground occupied by the manse and manse garden.  The amount
      of feu-duties payavle is L.424, *s. 4 3/4d.
        The following are the manes of the ministers who have officiated
      in this parish since its erection, so far as this can be ascertained.
        In 1602, John Lang, who appears to have continued minister
      till 1628. In 1640, James Taylor. In 1679, Neil Gillies was
      privately called by the parish. In 1688, John Gordon officiated,
      and continued to do so till 1691, when he returned to Inverary,
      his former charge. In 1694, John Stiwling was transported from
      the parish of Inchiannan to Greenock, but resigned in 1701, on


