
                       TWEEDSMUIR.                            57

mountain after mountain in apparently   endless succession, like
waves of a tumultuous sea, it rests not till it reaches the English
border and the German ocean.  It is worthy of remark, as regard
this and most of the nther hills in the parish, that they are of com-
parativelv easy ascent, and are flat as attic plains on the top.
Many of the inhabitants of the parish are supplied with excellent
peat from these lofty regions, which is brought down in common
carts, drawn by horses with comparative ease and safety.  And,
what constitutes at once the ornament and the value of these moun-
tains, is, that they are clothed ill the finest verdure, even to the
top, and produce all herbage so luxuriant in summer, as to admit of
being mowed to an indefinite extent.    The pasture which they
afford for sheep and black-cattle is of tile richest and most nutri-
tious  quality; in proof of which, there is no part of this or any
other country that produces flocks more healthy, or in higher re-
pute in the English markets.   It may also be remarked, that these,
mountains have none of that Alpine boldness Of contoir by which
the Grampians and most other hills of Caledonia are distinguish-
ed.  The flats and morasses of this district are comparatively few
and inconsiderable.

   Meteorology.--It may be remarked under this bead, tbit no ma-
terial difference his been observed betwixt the weather here and
at Edinburgh.  Snow or rain in some instances has preceded that
at Edinburgh by several hours; and in the case of a fall of snow
which happened in November 1831, it was found that it fell to a
greater depth in the immediate vicinity of the metropolis, than
even Ili this elevated region.   From the situation of these moun-
tains in relation to the eastern and western seas, storms of snow
and rain frequently spend their force before reachidg them; and
those who have lived long in the country give it as the result of
their observation, that the sheep have seldom been denied their
pasture for any length of time, in consequence of the depth or
long continuance of tile snow; and that the loss of sheep or lambs
from the severity of the weather has at no time bden very consi-
derable.  The average quantity of rain that falls annually through-
out the County does not exceed twenty-eight inches; and hnece it
may be inferred that though showers are more frequent, yet that
the actual quantum is not so great as in those counties which lie
east and west of Tweeddale.    A book of meteorological obsedrva-
tions, kept by the late schoolmaster of this parish for several years
previous to his death, exhibits the following results.


