
                      KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.            1263

	and human bones were found.  It is suffounded by a circular
	foss, from which it has been formed, and is vulgarty called Wal-
	lace's Trench.   It is 63 yards in circummference, and 5 feet in
	height from the bottom of the fosse.  The history of Sir William
	Wallace brings him, after having burned the Peel (a stronghold)
	of Gargunnock, across the Forth to this very point, by a road
	which led acress the moss of Kincardine to a ford in the Teith,
	where, in the ordinary state of the river, it is fordable.
	   In addition to these antiquities, we may take notice of a large
	stone which stands on the summit of the Borland Hill, at a short
	distance and in a north direction from the first-mentioned tumuli.
	It is 5 feet in height above the ground, and 12 in circumference,
	but more flat than round, and of a conical form near the top.  It
	is apparently in a natural state, bearing no marks of the ham-
	mer or the chisel, and is a very large boulder of slate.  A
	very vague tradition represents it as having, been a place of
	religious worship in superstitious times.  There are no other re-
	mains near it to confirm this opinion ; but whether it be correct
	or not, it is evident that its site is a very important one, and may
	leave been useful as a signal station, as it commands a view, not
	only of the road across the moss of Kincardine already referred
	to, but also of the line of the Roman stations along the Forth and
	Teith in the direction of the camp at Ardoch.
	   In the operation of removing the moss, several specimens of
	antiquities were found between 1770 and 1840.  One of the most
	remarkable of these is a large brass camp kettle, of a circular
	form, of the shape of a common boiler, which was found upon the
	estate of John Ramsay, Esq. of Ochtertyre in 1768, and presented
	by him to the Antiquarian Society of Edinburgh.  For an ac-
	count of it, see the Farmers' Magazine, 4th August 1817.
	   A similar vessel was found at a much later date in a similar si-
	tuation, which is preserved at Blair-Drummond.  Antiquarians
	are of opinion that they are Roman camp kettles.  Several spear-
	heads of brass have also been found from time to time in the
	mosses of Blair-Drummond and Meiklewood, which are in the
	possession of the proprietors.
	   A considerable number of a remarkable kind of stone has been
	found upon the clay, under a thick bed of moss, some of them
	composed of slate, and others of a compact stone of a greenish
	colour.  They are from four to six inches long, of a flat shape
	well polished, some being wedge-shaped at one and, and some at


