
                               DALRY.                    231

straightened. The increased facility afforded by the formation of
new, and the repairing of old, roads has in no small degree con-
duced to these improvements. An excellent has been formed
between Dalry and Largs, instead of the dangerous horse-path,
which was formerly the only means of communication. A new
road has been made from Dalry to Beith, whereby carriers are en-
abled to bring from thirty to forty cwt. on a single horse cart, and
on which a four-horse stage-coach runs. The greater part, of the
road is over land, which, thirty years ago, would hardly sustain the
weight of a sheep. A new road has been formed from Kilbride
and Ardrossan to near Dalry, but, from want of funds, the trus-
tees have not been able to complete it; and the old road which it
joins being very steep and ill kept, the public have not enjoyed the
benefit that would otherwise have been derived from it.
  Obstacles to Improvements.- Among the obstacles to improve-
ment, is the decreasing capital of farmers, owing to low prices and
high rents. Short leases, too, are an insurmountable to expect that
farmers will expend their capital on a lease of ten or twelve years
duration. Moreover, few proprietors are willing to give encourage-
ment to improvement by defraying a portion of the expense ne-
cessary to effect that object. Perhaps the main cause of this un-
willingness on the part of landlords arises from the perpetual
threatening of alterations on the corn laws, by a certain class of
politicians, who hold forth their repeal as a panacea for every evil,
whether real or imaginary, with which the state may be afflicted.
When at present\f* in this parish the best wheat will not average
4s. 3d. per bushel,-a lower price that at the date of the last
Statistical Account, and when good bread is sold for 4d. the
four pound loaf, and fine at 5d.,-it must appear how little reason
there is to allege that the corn laws are a burden on the labour-
ing classes. One serious obstacles to improvement in a considerable
portion of the parish, is the great increase of game, especially of
hares, which have increased to such an extent, that on some farms
the produce will scarcely meet the cost of the seed and labour.
  Mines and Quarries.-There are at present five coal-pits at work
in the parish. In the barony of Kersland the coal has been long
wrought. The workings were commenced at the western extre-
mity on a level with the Garnock, and have hitherto been wrought
to the crop of the coal, which is nearly exhausted. A considerable

<FOOTNOTE>November 1835.






