
        			TONGLAND.			83

sects, to which fishermen give the name of sea-lice. They occasion
the fish a great deal of uneasiness, and perhaps pain, being sometimes
so firmly attached, as on removal to bring away the scales. Fresh
water is fatal, to them; but bow long they survive in it, is uncer-
tain.--some say only for a few days: but this is a mistake, as I
have observed new fish among a number of old ones, for upwards
of a week, in the same pool, where they were easily distinguish-
able, both by the superior vivacity of their motions, and by the
long tails of the insects attached to them, and appearing like frag-
ments of numerous white threads between the tail and the dorsal
fin. In descending the river after spawning, the gills of the sal-
mon are filled with small maggots, called fresh-water lice, which
disappear after the fish reach the sea, and, except in one case, to
be noticed immediately, are never found on the same animal at the
same time as the sea-lice. The existence of these insects, under the
particular circumstances, will not account for the migratory instincts,
of the salmon; but supposing them to annoy or irritate the fish, it
affords a curious illustration of the physical means employed by
nature to quicken the operation of instincts which she has implant-
ed. The salmon seeks the river to deposit its spawn, and the sea to
recover its strength and bulk;--its migrations in either direction
being hastened by the presence of insects, fostered by the element
which it leaves, and destroyed by the one into which it passes. If
this fact be admitted as one of the inciting causes of the migra-
tion of salmon, it may be considered as somewhat analogous to one
in the history of migratory birds, with respect to which, John
Hunter suggested, and Dr Jenner has established, that the incit-
ing causes of their migrations are certain periodical changes in
the testes of the male, and the ovaria of the female. It also af-
fords an interesting, though partial confirmation of a conjecture
thrown out by Mr Stewart, who, in treating of the distinction be-
tween Reason and Instinct, in the third volume of the Philosophy
of the Human Mind, observes, that, "of the attempts to account
for the instincts of migratory birds and fishes, I have met with
none which seem to me at all satisfactory; at the same time,
I have no doubt that it is by some physical means that the effect
is accomplished, and I think it highly probable, that new lights
will be thrown on the subject by the researches of future natura-
lists."--P. 351.
   In consequence of the facility of communication opened with
Liverpool, Manchester, London, and other large towns by steam-
boats and railways, the price of salmon, like that of almost every


