
398                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.

variance with the refinement of modern times.   Yet we suspect
that the practice, revolting as it now appears, was considered at
the time of its introduction as an improvement upon the usages of
a former age.  For we find, that, in the General Assembly held
at Edinburgh in December 1563, it was specially ordained:-
"That a bier should be made in every countrie parish to carrie
the dead corpse of the poor to the burial-place, and that those of
the villages or houses next adjacent to the house where the dead
corpse lyeth, or a certain number out of every house, shall convoy
the dead corpse to the burial-place, and burie it six footes under
the earth, and that every superintendent request the Lords and
Barons within his bounds to make an act in their courts touching
this order, and to cause their officers warn the nearest neighbours
wherd the dead corpse lyeth, to convoy it to the grave."
  Another practice has long prevailed in this parish, and is still
occasionally observed.  When any member of a family is consi-
dered to be dying, the apartment is not only frequented, as in
other places, with relatives and neighbours, but in many cases the
whole company unite in an act of religious worship, selecting for
this purpose one of the psalms most suited to the occasion, such,
for example, as the xxiii. the xliii. or the cxviii., and singing it toge-
ther with a low and solemn melody, while the soul of the dying
person is passing into the world of spirits, and not only so, but
when the mortal struggle appears to be over, it is succeeded by a
song of triumph and of praise, consisting not unfrequently of the
following verses from the cvii.  Psalm:-

                 The storm is chang'd into a calm
                  At his command and will;
                 So that the waves which rag'd before,
                   Now quiet are and still.

                 Then are they glad, because at rest
                   And quiet now they be;
                 So to the haven he them brings
                   Which they desir'd to see.

                 O that men to the Lord would give
                   Praise for his goodness then,
                 And for his works of wonder done
                  Unto the sent of men !

That this practice has not originated from  any species of super-
stitious feeling we are not prepared to affirm; nor are we sure that
the results expected to arise from it are always such as are war-
ranted by the spirit of genuine and undefiled religion.  At the
same time, it must be admitted, that there is something in the ser-


