
     Statistical Account

very remarkable, many of the roots seem to have had their
trunks cut of about six inches above the original surface.
8th, Immediately below the peat moss is blue clay, with-
out any mixture, and no vegetable roots or substances*.

<FOOTNOTE>

   *A man now living, and 72 years of age, who has funk 23 pit wells in
several parts of the Carse, says, that after he penetrated the cultivated sur-
face, he always found about ten feet of brownish clay, without vegetable
mixture, under that blue clay with vegetable roots and sea shells, and ge-
nerally at about 19 feet deep he found peat moss from 3 to 9 inches deep;
then blue clay again with vegetable roots, of different depths from 9 in-
ches to 6 feet, and under that about two feet deep of peat moss again,
composed of oak, fir, beech and hazel wood.  That he has seen taken out
of this moss deers horns, skulls and other bones.  Below this moss he ge-
nerally found blue clay and quick-sand tinged black with the moss.  The
wells he dug were from 16 to 34 feet deep; and when he fell in with
quick-sand before he came to the moss, he generally found, at about 16
feet deep, a spring of pure soft water, free of any mineral taste; but
when he was obliged to go deeper, and to penetrate the moss before he
found a spring, the water had a mineral taste, and when mixed cold with
spirits, it turned them as black as ink.  This man also says, he has frequent-
ly seen oak and fir trees taken out of the braes, after being uncovered by
the tide.
   In the year 1780, when digging in a swamp at Castle-Huntly, to make a
piece of water, about six feet below the surface, a very large oak tree was
found, lying with its top eastward.  That part of it which lay across the
excavation appeared to be the two large top branches, of about 1 1/2 feet in
diameter; the trunk of which must have been of very large dimensions.
The branches were cut out and taken up, and were found to be hard and
fresh, but as black as ebony.  The body of the tree was suffered to remain,
left in taking it up it had made an opening for the water to escape:  but it
is still to be seen, on one side of the piece of water, and may at any time
be followed out, were it thought a sufficient object of inquiry to the cu-
rious.  It is from this mossy stratum of vegetable substances, no doubt, that
the marsh reed rises, and shews itself in many fields through the Carse; as
they are found to be so deep, as to defeat every attempt to get them rooted
out.


