
     Of Speymouth.

   Church, Schools, Poor, &c.-The church was built in
the year 1732, soon after the annexation of the parishes,
in a centrical situation for the united parish; but though
of so late a date, is in very bad condition.  The manse
was built about the same time, at a little distance from
the church, and lately underwent a thorough repair.
The offices were rebuilt of late.  The stipend, by decreet
of annexation 1731, is 77 bolls 1 firlot 2 pecks bear,
32 bolls 1 1/2 peck oatmeal, at 8 1/2 stone the boll, and 340 l.
Scotch.  The glebe is about 25 acres, being given as an
equivalent for the two glebes of the annexed parishes.
The Earl of Murray and Sir. William Gordon of Gor-
donstown, present per vices.  Our boll in Murray is very
near the Linlithgow measure, and 1 1/4 boll, nearly equal to
the quarter English, is generally allowed for a boll of oats.
The parochial school, was some time ago fixed at Gar-
mouth, though at one extremity of the parish, as being
the most populous place.  The schoolmaster's salary is
8 1/4 bolls meal, and 2 1/8 bolls bear.  He has also 100 merks
as the interest of 2000 merks, mortified by a Mr. Patrick
Gordon, watch maker in Edinburgh, for the behoof of a
schoolmaster in this his native place*.

     3 C 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*He has 2 L. Sterling as session clerk; 1 s. for every proclamation of
marriage; 4 d. for every baptism recorded; 4 d. for every certificate grant-
ed by the kirk-session, and as much for every extract.  The school sees
are, 1 s. the quarter for teaching reading; 1 s. 4 d. for reading and writing;
1 s. 8 d. for arithmetic; and 2 s. for Latin: For book-keeping, half a gui-
nea.  The number of scholars is generally from 40 to 50.  The number
of Latin scholars is now much less than it used to be here, and at all our
schools in the N.  We have lately got another schoolmaster at the other
end of the parish, from the Society for propagating Christian Know-
ledge.  He has 10 L. Sterling a year from the Society.  The Duke of
Gordon gives him a house and kail yard, and 2 L Sterling; and he has 25
merks mortified for the schoolmaster of one of the old parishes, by one of
the ancestors of the Earl of Fife.  The number of scholars at this school


