
138                           AYRSHIRE.

country, there is less of the power of religion among them than in
times past. They are remarkable for their kindness towards each
other, particularly in seasons of distress. Should an individual be
laid on a bed of sickness, and be unable to procure for himself the
essentials of existence, his neighbours are generally ready to share
their humble meal with him--to attend him night after night, should
their presence be required, and, when death has closed his eyes, they
are always ready to render any assistance in their power to administer
consolation to the afflicted family. Though living in a comparatively
remote district of the country, where there is little facility of attaining
to a knowledge of the higher branches of education, the people of the
parish are by no means deficient in the spirit of enterprise, or in ge-
neral and scientific knowledge. Several individuals, natives of the
parish, at this moment, fill most honourably prominent situations in
society, some in this and others in distant lands. A consider-
able number of the villagers in Sorn and Catrine have a small
piece of ground attached to their houses, on which they raise po-
tatoes and a few common vegetables, for the use of their families,
the working of which forms a pleasing recreation to them after the
toils of the day.
	                IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The parish is supposed to contain about 19,000
Scotch acres, of which about 7000 are in pasture after cultivation,
about 3000 under cro or under rye-grass ha about 600 in wood,
about 3000 might, by a judicious application of capital, be brought
into a state of cultivation, and the remainder is chiefly bill or moss.
	The value of the grain raised annually is about L. 7200; of
rye-grass and meadow hay about L. 1716; of potatoes, beans,
turnips, and carrots about L. 15 17 ; of land in pasture, rating it at
L. 3 per cow, and 6s. per sheep, L. 4320; dairy produce about
L. 7000; of lime last year L. 600. The number of cows is about
1264, of sheep 2161, of horses 221. The valued rental is L. 5411
Scots, and the real rental about L. 7300.
	The rent of land on the higher ground varies from 12s. to
L. 1, 2s. but on the holms, on the banks of the Ayr, and in the
neighbourhood of the villages of Sorn and Catrine, it is as high as
L. 3 per acre or even more.
	The crops chiefly raised in the parish are oats, potatoes, and hay.
There also a few acres of wheat and barley, beans, turnips, and
occasion`lly a small-quantity of carrots. The rotation is generally
two crops of oats, one of hay, and five years of pasture. In seve-
ral instances a more improved system of farming has been recently


