
                         DALKEITH.                     465


rished in the reign of David II. (1329-1371). He granted a
donation of the lands of Elvystone, in the county of Edinburgh,
to John de Graham, son and heir of the deceased Richard de
Graham;* which grant was confirmed by David II. on the 23d of
March 1361-2. Dying without issue, his extensive possessions
of Abercorn and Dalkeith descended to his two sisters,-the one,
married to Sir William More, obtained the barony of Abercorn;+
while the barony of Dalkeith and the estate of Eskdale passed
into the hands of William Douglas of Lugton by his marriage
with Marjory Graham, the other sister.
   Thus the manor and lordship of Dalkeith seem to have been
in the possession of the Grahams for upwards of 200 years.
Tradition intimates to us that they lived in great splendour, and
took an active part in the wars and political transactions of the
times; and "the gallant Grahams" is still a familiar expression with
the inhabitants of this town. But no vestige of their greatness+ now
exists among us to perpetuate their fame; even the wasting recum-
bent statues which lie exposed within the area of the roofless chapel,
and which are commonly regarded as memorials of that ancient
family, are proved to belong to a more recent age; and the num-
bers of high-titled dead that have long been accumulating within
those consecrated precincts, present a striking exhibition of the
perishable character of human grandeur,-and testify how brief is
the enjoyment of the acquisitions and honours of this transitory
world.

<FOOTNOTE>"Carta given by John Grahame of Dalkeith to John Grahame of the lands of
Elvinstone,"-Robertson's Index, pp. 44, 49; see also Regist. Magn. Sigill. P. 21.
     "In Robertsons index, P. 40, 13, we find, "Carta to William More of the ba-
rony of Abercorn, by the resignation ofJobn Grahame."
     "No memorial remains of the Grahames, unless the fading traditions of the
Place, and two curious but wasted tombstones which lie within the ruined circuit of the
old church. They represent knights in chain armour, lying cross-legged upon their mo-
numents, like three ancient and curious figures on the tombs in the Temple Church,
London."-Provincial Antiquities of Scotland, Vol. i. page 57. London, 1826.
  Probably the distinguished writer of this statement had not scene "these knights on
their monuments."  The figures on the tombtone are a knight and  his lady; at the ex-
tremity of their heads are their coats of arms; the knight has two stars or mullets on a
chief,* and the lady has the lion rampant of Scotland, and two star sor mullets;-clearly
showing that it is the monument of one of the Douglasses, who married one of the
daughters of the royal family of Scotland.+  The arms of the Grahams are three es-
callops, &c.

     Sir James Douglas of Dalkeith bore two stars or mullets on a chief in 1371.
     Three of the Douglasses of Dalkeith were married to daughters of the royal fa-
mily. 1, James, second Lord Dalkeith, married first Lady Elizabeth Stewart, daugh-
ter of Robert III.; 2. James, fourth Lord Dalkeith, first Earl of Morton, married
Jean, Stewart, daughter of King James I., and Dowager-Countess of Angus,-pro-
bably the parties represented on the tombstone; 3. James. third Earl of Morton, mar-
ried Lady Catherine, natural daughter of King James IV.

EDINBURGH.                           G  g


