
308                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

Savings bank, which has been in operation in Luthermuir for about
twelve years. The nature of it is this: The members contribute
6d., 1s., or 2s. 6d. weekly as they can; this sum, as it accumu-
lates, is lent out at interest among the members, in sums not ex-
ceeding L.5, for which the member borrowing gives, as security,
two other members of the society, whn lay not require the use of
such a sum. A great part of the funds are lent out in this way,
and the money not so lent is laid out to the best advantage, and
the whole sum, principal and interest, is divided at the year's end
among the members in proportion to their weekly contribution.
This society has been very useful in the parish. There being no
proper Savings bank, the people generally avail themselves of
those established in the neighbouring parishes of Logie-Pert and
Fettercairn.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on
the roll is 50, and the average allowance 4s. a month to each.
Besides these there are about 20 others who receive occasional re-
lief. The ordinary church collections, including collections at the
communion, amount to L.50; the interest of stock funds, L.20,
17s. 6d.; the dues of mortcloths, L.4, 2s. 8d.; voluntary contri-
butions from the heritors, in proportion to their valued rents,
amount to from L. 100 to L. 150. There is a growing disposition,
on the part of the poor, to seek parochial relief, and they seem to
have no idea of any thing degrading in it.
        Fairs.-There is now an annual fair in the parish, held on Bal-
makelly moor, on the last Friday of July, for the sale of cattle,
horses, sheep, wool, and for the engagement of harvest shearers.
It is called St James's fahr. It was formerly held on the Hill of
Garvock, but was removed to Balmakelly moor about two years
ago, for the better accommodation of dealers.
        Inns and Aleliouses.-There are six inns or alehouses in the pa-
rish, certainly far too many; but they seem to be less frequented
now than they were a few years ago. There cannot be a doubt
that they have a bad effect on the morals of the people.
        Fuel.-Coals are chiefly used. They are obtained in Montrose
at a cost of 1s. 2d. per barrel, and the cartage to Marykirk may
be about 4d. a barrel more. Brushwood is also to be had in con-
siderable quantities, at the price of 1s. 6d. per load. The farmers
may obtain turf and peat from the moss of Arnhall, in the parish
of Fettercairn, on account of their farms; but they do not avail
themselves of their right to a great extent.


