
     Statistical Account

   Schools.-The salary of the parish schoolmaster is 9 L. 9 s.
This, with the school fees and other emoluments, makes the
office of schoolmaster worth about 25 L. a year.  There is a
school-house, but no house for the schoolmaster.  English,
writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping, with the Latin, Greek,
and French languages, are taught in the parish school.  There
are also 2 other schools in the town, and 2 in the country part
of the parish, intended chiefly for teaching English and writ-
ing.  The education of youth is indisputably of the very ut-
most importance to the religious and civil interests of society.
No class of men, therefore, can be of more (if indeed of
equal) consequence and utility, than parish schoolmasters.  But,
to the disgrace of an enlightened and liberal age, these men
have been most amazingly neglected.  Their salaries, when
originally fixed in Scotland, bore a reasonable proportion to
the value of money, and to the price of labour and provi-
sions.  Even then, however, it was only by the greater at-
tention, and the most rigid economy, that they were enabled
to live with any kind of decency, and secure that degree of
respect to absolutely necessary to their usefulness.  For many
years after that period, parish schools were filled with men
highly respectable for their exemplary lives, and for their su-
perior parts and learning.  Hence that taste for literature,
that general knowledge, for which the Scotch were so deserv-
edly celebrated, whilst the great mass of the people of the other
nations of Europe were funk in the most savage ignorance.
Since that time, the mode of living is entirely changed.
Every article of dress, provisions and household furniture is
risen to a degree almost incredible; and a shilling, in real va-
lue, is worth little more than a penny was then.  For these
reasons, the salaries of the judges in Scotland, and the livings
of the greater part of the clergy, have been considerably in-
creased; but no addition whatever has been made to the sa-


