
                           PAISLEY.                              293

research, together with literature and the belles lettres.  With the
exception of the Andersonian Institution at Glasgow, no society
of the same nature was at that time known to exist in Scotland.  It
was agreed to have courses of lectures by the members who vo-
lunteered their services, and these lectures were accompanied with
free and friendly conversations on the respective subjects.  The
first lecture was given on the 2d October 1809, by a late vene-
rable minister of the Secession church in this place, Dr William
Ferrier; and its subject was, " The nature and objects of philo-
sophical research."  In 1812, the institution was incorporated by
charter from the magistrates and council.  From that period till
the present day, it has been continued in various degrees of pros-
perity.  While single lectures on miscellaneous subjects have been
delivered, from time to time, by the members, a course or series
has occasionally been given by professional gentlemen of the town;
e. g. On meteors and meteorology, by Dr James Kerr; on Physi-
ology, by Dr A. K. Young; on astronomy; and on Geology, by
Rev. Dr Burns; On Electricity, by Mr John Kennedy, and Mr
George Miller, &c.  At different times, lecturers have been spe-
cially appointed at the expense of the institution ; and among these
we mention the names of Mr John Steele, Mr John Murray, Mr
John Kennedy, and Mr Hugo Reid.  The present lecturer is
Mr William Patrick, a licentiate of the Church of Scotland, au-
thor of a volume on " the Botany of Lanarkshire," and to whose
talents for Statistical research this work has on more than one occa-
sion been indebted. *
   Attached to the institution, there is a valuable library of 500
volumes on various subjects connected with arts and sciences, che-
mistry, natural, moral, and experimental philosophy, and history.
To this library, the Rev. Dr Chalmers, when minister of the Tron
Church in Glasgow, was a liberal benefactor.
   The museum contains a valuable collection of minerals, consist-
ing of silver, copper, lead, and iron ores, of great variety and beau-
ty.  It contains also a complete set of the casts of the Elgin
marbles, presented to the institution by the artist, our ingenious
townsman, Mr John Henning.  Among the articles of a curious
and interesting nature may also be noticed, a set of large horns of
the North American moose-deer; a set of spiral horns of the goat
or sheep kind from the East Indies; Esquimaux fish harpoon ;

<FOOTNOTE>See Articles " Hamilton," " Cambuslang," &c.


