
44                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

Highland breeds.  A considerable number of small Highland cat-
tle are annually wintered in the parish, and fattened the succeed-
ing summer, and sold to the butchers.
      Husbandry.--The land in tillage is usually managed either in
the four or five-shift rotation of cropping.  In the four-shift rotation,
the order is as follows: 1st, oats after grass; 2d, fallow, or green
crop of turnip or potatoes; 3d, wheat or other white crop; and, 4th,
grass for hay or pasture.  In the five-shift rotation, the same order
as above is observed, but with this difference, --that the grass is
either allowed to lie two years before breaking up, and then one
crop only of corn is taken before fallow, or a pea crop is introdu-
ced after the first crop of oats, to be succeeded by a fallow; but,
in the latter case, the land should be in a good state of cultivation.
      Drains are cut from two to four or more feet deep, according
to the nature of the soil and the situation, and are filled with
broken stones to within twelve inches of the surface, the undermost
being always carefully laid in by the hand, and set on edge, or in
the form of a conduit at bottom; the rest are thrown in promis-
cuously above them, and are broken and levelled on the top; a slight
covering of straw or turf is then put over them, and the earth is put
above all.  The expense of a drain three feet deep, exclusive of
providing stones and straw, is about 9d. per rood on strong land,
and from 7d. to 8d. on softer soils.  The drains are made of no
more breadth than to allow a man to work them properly, and, at
the bottom, to allow a shovel spade to run along.  The hill land
is mostly surface drained in the customary manner.
      The duration of leases is generally nineteen years, and there
cannot be a doubt that the present improved state of agriculture
in this, as in other parts of Scotland, is to be attributed to the se-
curity and the length of leases, more than to all other circulstances.
      The old and incommodious farm buildings are fast disappearing,
and giving place to others much more substantial and convenient.
This is more particularly the case upon those farms which belong
to His Grace the Duke of Roxburghe, comprising fully half of the
parish.
      Recent Improvements.-- Great improvements have, within the last
twelve or fifteen years, been made on the roads in this parish.
During that period, the old roads, both public and private, have
undergone substantial repairs; and new roads have been opened
up in various directions.  They extend to about 18 1/2 miles.  One
of them, measuring about 3 1/2 miles, is turnpike.  It was completed
                                   3


