
     Statistical Account

from the S. side to Tweed, for water; but the ingenuity of the
times has now in a great measure supplied this defect, by deep
ponds or very deep wells; and this district is now very rarely,
though sometimes, distressed by want of water.  In spite of these
and other inconveniences, plants, animals, and men multiply
and thrive exceedingly.  From some undrained marshy grounds,
from some low lying spots which long retain the waters in a
stagnated state, the air is often moist, foggy, and scemingly un-
wholesome, though not so much so as one would conclude,
the inhabitants living as long, and enjoying as much health
as in other places; except that there is one disease very pre-
valent, namely the ague, the causes of which seem to be the
miry nature of the ground, the fogginess of the air, the miser-
able huts the common people till of late lived in, a defect in
cleanliness, and the scanty portion of animal food which falls
to their share.  The virulence of this disease, however, seems
to be a good deal abated, owing to the universal inclosing of
the grounds, draining off the moisture, a very conspicuous im-
provement in the houses, personal cleanliness, and a great al-
teration for the better in diet.  But this disease some years re-
turns with such unexpected frequency and force, as often baf-
fles all speculations concerning it.
   The only stream of any note in the parish is Leet, which a-
bounds with pike*.

   Minerals, etc.-There is great plenty of free stone, particu-
larly one excellent stone quarry is wrought in the farm of Swan-
ton quarter, on which the family of Swinton retained a servi-

<FOOTNOTE>

*A regular fois can be still traced in the church yard round the church.
which was a strong stone building, into which it would seem the parishioners
upon a sudden alarm retired till their countrymen, roused by a certain signal.
came to their assistance.  Then they sallied forth, and aided by their neigh-
bours drove off the southern invaders.


