
486                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the English side of the Liddle. This water has been found of
great advantage to persons labouring under scorbutic disorders and
complaints of the stomach.
	There is also a celebrated petrifying spring near the river Tarras,
the, only one known in the whole range of the country. Mr Keir
of Langholm, late factor to his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, col-
lected the petrifactions of moss, orfog, along the course of its stream,
to the amount of several cart loads, which he caused to be burnt in
the same way as limestone, and found it to be excellent manure,
and to produce nearly the same effects as lime does.
	Geology.--This parish abounds in coal,limestone,and freestone.
The coal formation is found in hollows of the transition rocks.
The sandstone rocks are very friable; and those found in the coal
depositions consist of spherical concretions, which are again com-
posed of curved lamellar concretions. Slate-clay of a greyish-
black and ash-grey colour, which contains numerous impressions
of shells, and sometimes also of ferns, is found; and clay-iron, in
the form of spherical-shaped masses imbedded in slate clay, in the
coal fields. Some of these spheres are from a few inches to three
feet in diameter, and are exactly similar to those found in the coal
fields of Mid-Lotbian.
	The coal, which is worked at the two collieries of Archerbeck
and Byreburn, appears generally to be intermediate between slate
and pitch-coal, sometimes inclining more to the one, sometimes
more to the other. The principal coal seam at Atcherbeck, let
to an English gentleman of the name of Lomax, is 5 feet 10
inches thick; and three yards below this, it is 3 feet 4 inches thick,
and the coal is wrought by an open level. At Byreburn, it is
wrought by a water engine upon a new construction, the invention
of the late Mr Keir of Millholm. It is moved by means of a large
bucket of a square form, suspended from the end of a lever, hav-
ing a valve at bottom in the centre, which, by machinery, is made
to shut and open in the instant of time the bucket should fill and
empty itself. The other end of the lever is fixed to the pump,
spear, or rod, and, by the continued action of the bucket descend-
ing and ascending, filling and emptying the water it contains, which
is of such a weight as to make the beam preponderate, the pump-
ing is carried on, and the coal pit cleared of the water collected
below. Limestone is found in great abundance in different parts
of this parish, but more particularly on the east side of the Esk.
The lime burnt at Harelaw is in greatest request, both as yielding
				4


