
106                            ORKNEY.

five years, is only 1 in 77.  The average number of the popula-
tion in each year has been, as nearly its possible, 495; and even
taking 7 as the average number of deaths, it makes the rate of
mortality 70 5/7.  This almost exceeds credibility; but there is one
thing to be mentioned in explanation of it, which is, that there are
some persons, almost every year, leaving the island in quest of em-
ployment, who seldom return to reside in it, while there are none
coming from other places to reside here.  Consequently, the num-
ber of deaths in the island will scarcely give a correct representa-
tion of the deaths of those who belong to it.  This, however, could
not affect the rate of mortality very much; and by employing, a
different method for ascertaining the rate, taking the average age
of the persons who have died during the period in question, it is
still brought up to 62.  The facts will fully substantiate this pro-
portion.  The people are uncommonly healthy and robust.  Ex-
cepting a very few who die in infancy,-and these seldom exceed-
ing one in the twelvemonth,-deaths among the young are exceed-
ingly rare.  By far the greatest number of deaths take place on
those who have reached sixty-five or upwards; and yet compara-
tively few outlive eighty.  Occasional instances of very great lon-
gevity will be found no test of the general healthfulness of the po-
pulation, or of the average term of life; and it is precisely among
a population like that of this island, that these attain their maxi-
mum, where all are accustomed to laborious occupations and ex-
posure to every kind of weather, which tend, in the first instance,
to render the bodily frame hardy and robust, and, at the same time,
prevent it from reaching an extreme old age.
   There is a great deal of native politeness and much kindness
of heart among the people; but in domestic comforts, they are
certainly far behind the general run of peasantry in the southern
districts;-not that they are generally more deficient in the ma-
terials of comfort,-for every house almost has two or more
cows, a pig, several sheep, and abundance of poultry.  But there
is a great want of neatness and cleanliness in the management
of household matters, so that their condition has nothing of
the tidy and comfortable appearance of what is now to be met
with in houses of a like  description in tbe south.  And for any of-
fectual improvement in this respect, there are two formidable bar-
riers in the way, which are not likely soon to be overcome.  The
women have much work to do out of doors, a species of work, too,
which peculiarly unfits them for neat management of house-


