
                   PARISH OF HUTTON.

PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

           THE REV. JOHN EDGAR, MINISTER.
                     ________


         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
 Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE parish of Fishwick was united to
Hutton in 1614; and these two now form one parish. In this
district, the parishes must have been originally very small, as
most of the present ones formed two, and still are by no means
large either in extent or population. Fishwick is situated on the
north bank of the Tweed, and the ruins of the church and church-
yard yet remain. The site is very picturesque and solitary, Fish-
wick probably derives its name from having been a fishing village.
From its proximity to the Tweed, it is not improbable that its in-
habitants in olden times were chiefly fishermen. Hutton, which
lies to the north of Fishwick, and is bounded on the north by the
river Whitadder, it has been conjectured, owes its name to its low
situation-being originally How town, which in process of time be-
came Hutton. It is now the name used to designate the united pa-
rishes. Contiguous to this parish, on the north side of the Whitad-
der, are the parishes of Chirnside, Foulden, and Mordington on the
N. W. N. and N. E.-Edrom bounds it on the W.-Whitsome and
Ladykirk on the S. W.-the Tweed on the S.: and the parish
of Berwick on the E. In extent it is about four miles long, and
upwards of three broad; and its figure is a sort of irregular triangle.
 Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the parish
is flat, presenting no elevated grounds deserving notice. On
the banks of the Tweed and Whitadder, however, the ground is
diversified by gentle elevations, which contrast well with the tame
scenery of the other parts of the parish. The medium height above
the level of the sea does not exceed 150 feet. The banks of the
Whitadder are rather deficient in sylvan scenery. Were they
planted, the proprietors would soon be remunerated, and the sce-
nery, which possesses great capabilities for picturesque effect, would
be much improved.
   Soil.-The soil on the banks of the Tweed and Whitadder is


