

                                    PERTH.                            71

       by the strength of the stream.  One of them was very large, above
       half an inch in thickness, made of a fine light-brown clay, plated on
       the inside with brass, and capable Of containing about ten English
       gallons.  Mr Cant had in his custody a bit of the brass and urn.
       He observed on the face of the bank six semicircular pillars of
       earth, about 18 feet in height to the surface of the ground from
       the bed of the river.  The earth of these pillars was quite differ-
       ent from that of the bank, being of a dark hazel colour, while the
       earth of the bank was reddish.  Round pits had been dug out, and
       urns deposited at the bottom.  They were filled with a mixture of
       glutinous earth rammed down.  After an inundation, which had
       washed away part of the bank about 150 yards farther up the river,
       he discovered a small urn, in which were a few ashes of oak-wood
       and part of a lacrymatory.  It would contain about an English
       quart and a half.  The pillars were in lines, about ten feet dis-
       tant from each other.   Mr Cant's conjecture was, that the Ro-
       mans had here a station, a castellum, which carries in it great
       probability, as, from their regularly formed castellum at Ardoch,
       there are vestiges of a military way, which leads by Methven to the
       Tay, about a quarter of a mile above Bertha.
         Low's Warh merits particular notice, as it is a part of the charter-
       ed property of the burgh of no inconsiderable value.  It is a strong
       and skilfully built weir or dike across the river Almond, about four
       miles up the river, which diverts a large portion of it into an aque-
       duct that formerly encompassed the walls.*  Before the invention
       of gunpowder, the citizens, in cases of emergency, by means of
       sluices, so filled the ditch or fosse with the water as to render the
       place almost impregnable.  This was done by them in 1313, when
       Bruce, as we have seen, invested and took it.  At what time, and
       by whom that wall was built, is a matter of uncertainty.  Nor is
       it certain what was the special object intended by the aqueduct.
       It has been imagined that it was to strengthen the fortifications by
       surrounding the town with water.  But the probability is, that it
       was for the simple purpose of procuring a water power for the city
       mills.  The probability is founded on the following circumstances:
       The proprietor of Meiklour, an estate about eight miles &Om Perth,
       in the year 1106, was John Mercer, a burgess of Perth.  He was
       the progenitor of the Aldie family.  The arms of that family

       <FOOTNOTE>The Rev. Mr Scott, in his account of the parish ( 1796) says, that there are some
       documents whih show that this canal was in existence before the time of malcolm
       Canmore, who, after the death of Macbeth.  ascended the throne in 1057.  Where
       these documents are, I have not been able to discover.


