
     Statistical Account

some time past has very much increased.  In December 
1792 the number was 49; at present there are 45 on the 
roll.  The funds for their suppor are, collections at the 
Church and Chapel of Ease, money paid for burying
grounds, etc. and the interest of a capital arising from do-
nations*, and former savings.  From the increased num-
ber of poor, the kirk-session have been obliged to encroach
on their capital.-The following is a state of their funds
from 7th April 1792, to 7th May 1793:

<TABLE>

To interest of money,                             L.  15   5   8                 
To collections, money for burying-grounds, etc.       51   0   0   
                                                  -------------- 
                                                  L.  66   5   8
Disbursements, session-clerk's salary, etc. in-   
cluded, about L. 30 of principal being up- 
listed,                                           L.  96   5   8

</TABLE>

   There is no scheme respecting the poor to which objec-
tions may not be stated.  It is, however, a primary object,
and of great importance, to discourage vagrants, and to 
confine beggars to their respective parishes, who ought to 
support their own poor; thus the worthless and sturdy beg-
gar will be discovered, and the public no longer imposed 
upon by pretended objects of charity.  With regard to the
best mode of supporting the poor, there is a variety of opi-
nions.  It is no doubt unreasonable that the burden should 
fall chiefly on those who are least able to bear it, and that 
non-residing heritors, though they draw considerable rents
from a parish, should contribute little or nothing towards
the support of its poor; on the other hand, poors rates are

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Rev. Mr James Thomson, minister of this parish, left to the 
poor of the Established Church L. 100 Sterling, the interest thereof to be 
distributed yearly on the 31st December, by the kirk-session, to the poor 
on the weekly roll.


