
                           OXNAM.                          259

height southward of Bloodylaws is the most conspicuous and im-
portant.  On the hill at Cunzierton, also, the outlines of a strong-
ly fortified British station may be clearly traced.  It consists of a
large rampart, with double trenches surrounding the level area on
the summit; and about fifty yards lower, where the ascent is
easiest, an additional mound of defence is likewise apparent.  Be-
sides, there are the remains of a Roman encampment most dis-
tinctly visible upon a somewhat commanding eminence called Pen-
nymuir.  It is of a quadrangular figure, with slightly rounded cor-
ners; but it has this peculiarity of construction, that the vallum
and fossa are carried outward at right angles on the east side,
where the ground is dry and level, so as to include an additional
oblong space of no small extent.  The traverses covering the gates
or entrances, as well as the ramparts and entrenchments, are still
remarkably well defined, except only where the narrow extremity
has been levelled by the plough, and where another portion of
them has been converted into a turf fence.  The beauty and com-
pleteness of the camp are unhappily marred by these encroach-
ments.  Its superficial area is 32 acres.
      Close to this ancient encampment, near the two Druidical circles, and
not far from the important fortification noticed above, there runs
along the north-east boundary of the parish, for about six miles,
the great middle Roman road into North Britain, usually deno-
minated the Watling Street.  Where it is conducted over dry slop-
ing ground, its originally raised and rounded appearance is still
very entire.  It is supposed to have been regularly paved, which
seems to be confirmed by stones larger than the rest being found
inserted closely and in a continued line along the middle of it, by
the numbers protruding through the grass which covers its surface,
and by the great quantity of mixed sizes, observable where it passes
over ground that is marshy or moist.  It has been traced from
Carriden on the Frith of Forth, through the Lothians, Lauderdale,
St Boswell's Green, and onward to Jedfoot bridge, the camp at
Pennymuir, and Woden-Law; and then crossing the Border,  it
goes by Chewgreen, Riechester, Corebridge, and near Halifax to,
Manchester, and from thence to Norwich, Chester, and Aber,
where it joins the great southern branch of Wattling Street.
Many pits are perceptible along both sides of this ancient cause-
way, varying in their distances from each other, from which un-
questionably the materials for its construction were taken.  Some
of them containing water are overgrown with rushes; while others,


