
                         DOLLAR.                          101

men's gardens. The number of pupils of both sexes who attend
the different classes is at present above 200. *
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners in the parish are, the
Globe Insurance Company, (formerly Crawfurd Tait, Esq.); Wil-
liam Clark of Dollarbeg; Robert Haig of Dollarfield; Mrs Dun-
canson of Wester Sheardale; John McArthur Moir of Hillfoot;
and James Erskine of Aberdona.
   Parochial Registers.-The minutes of the kirk-session of Dollar
commence in May 1701, and continue to the present time, with
the exception of six years, viz. from October 1736 to May 1742,
during which period no register seems to have been kept. There
are three volumes of minutes containing the transactions of the kirk-
session, from 1701 till October 1834, with the above exception, and
one in progress. The register contains nothing deserving of notice;
it is entirely filled with notices of births, deaths, marriages, and
cases of church discipline. The two first volumes are very care-
lessly kept. The names of the persons who compose the sederunt
of the meeting are seldom given, so that it is often difficult to as-
certain who was minister at the time.
   Ministers.-There have been four ministers in Dollar since the
Revolution, the present incumbent making the fifth. The names of
the four first are, John Gray, William Walker, Robert Finlay, and
John Watson; but, from the want of sederunts, we are unable to
give the time when they first began their ministry. In the former
Statistical Account, Mr Gray is said to have been ordained in
1709; but this is incorrect; for we find his name in the minutes
several years previous to that date. + Mr Gray died in the year

  <FOOTNOTE>Reference may here be made to the notice in the Old Account of the Literary
Shepherd, John Christie, who tended his own sheep on the farm of Craiginnan on the
White Wisp Hill, one of the Ochills.
           Mr Gray received the nickname of the Baron, from the circumstance of his hav-
ing purchased two baronies during his incumbency, the one in Fifeshire, and the
other in Fossaway parish. See further particulars respecting these purchases in a
note, page 166 of the former Statistical Account. It is said he paid for the two ba
ronies nearly L.5000--a large sum in those days; and that the custom of his pa-
rishioners depositing in his hands the small sums they scraped together supplied him
with the money for making these purchases. On one occasion, when a run was made
upon him from his credit having become doubtful, it is said he arranged along the
wall of his deposit room, a number of pewter pint stoups, filled nearly to the mouth
with sand. Into the few inches near the top, not filled with sand, he put a
number of guineas, half guineas, crowns, half-crow, shillings, &c. The first who
came for his money, was frankly told be would have it, and it was immediately dealt
out to him from the pewter stoups. The poor man, on seeing there was no want of
money, as he supposed, returned what he had drawn, and begged the minister to keep,
it for him, as he had no use for it. This incident had a similar effect upon the other
claimants; and by this ingenious contrivance, did the minister of Dollar stave off a
rather formidable run upon his resources, for he had really laid out the greater part
of his deposits in buying land.


