
     Statistical Account

   A few hints have been suggested by the principal manu-
facturers for the recovery of this decaying trade.  These
shall be given in their own words: "Were the trustees to
give encouragement to weavers by premiums and extras on
well made pieces of linen, as was done through Scotland a-
bout 40 years ago, it might have as good an effect as it had
then, the tradesmen being much better now than when
they began their prizes at the above period; and were en-
couragement given also to young girls to spin properly,
much might be expected.  This could be done by employ-
ing some spinning mistresses in different little towns through
the parish, and offering some prizes to the best spinners, in
order to prompt the emulation of the scholars.  Finally,
were some attention paid by the proprietors to a decaying
bleachfield, these things, and what else their wisdom may
suggest, might still, through the blessing promised to the
diligent, recover a falling back state of business."
   In order to encourage this manufacture, the bleachfield men-
tioned above was set on foot through the patriotic exertions of
the Reverend Mr James Brown, late one of the ministers of
Edinburgh, and previously minister of this parish.  During
his residence at Melrose, and for several years afterward,
the bleaching business was carried on with considerable spi-
rit and success.  For some time past it has declined.  In
dry seasons, there is a great scarcity of water in the field,
though abundance might be procured at no great expence.
The buildings are old and in great disrepair, and little is to
be expected from the proprietors.  The property is divided
into a great many shares, so low as L. 5; so that the pro-
fits which might be derived from it are no ways adequate
to stimulate the exertions of the proprietors, most of whom
are in good circumstances, and independent of this business.
Besides, no dividends of profits having been made among
them for several years, they are little disposed to be at

     I


