
     of Kilmalie.

to be formed, by one part of the rock leaning to the other,
and forming, between them, an arched, irregular, shapeless,
kind of grotto, from 6 to 12 or 14 feet high.  It is 30 feet
long, and 11 broad.  The floor is very uneven, sloping from
the mouth all the way.  There are 3 divisions in it; the
largest of which, would afford shelter for about 30 people.
At its extremity, there are two other passages, leading farther
into the rock; both are quite dark.  These apertures conduct,
through the body of the rock, to other recesses; but such is
their dark, and hideous appearance, that few can be prevail-
ed on to enter them.  One of these passages, opens at the
extremity of the large apartment, and is lined with a shelving-
precipitate rock, that goes about 10 feet downwards, and ef-
fectually deters most of the visitants from proceeding any
farther;-the other passage is nearly over it, at the roof of the
vault, to which one may easily ascend, by the help of a slop-
ing part of the rock.  The earth, on the floor of the cave, and
the drops oozing through the crevices, occasion a perpetual
dampness, and disagreeable smell.  It is the frightful habita-
tion of darkness;-an abode, fit to be inhabited only by the
sons of despair.-being one of those howling caverns, where
the subterraneous winds blow.  Hither, however, some re-
treated for safety, in the year 1746.-and here they, for some
time, lived secure*.  The mouth of the cave is not above 3 1/2
feet high, and is pretty much concealed by its situation.  The

<FOOTNOTE>

* There is a tradition among the vulgar, that a piper went once into this
cave, and that the noise of his music was heard, under ground, at a place called
Kinloch, distant, from the entrance of the cave, no less than 10 miles.  The
tune he played was, "Oh!  that I had three hands I two for the bagpipe, and one for
"the sword;" signifying that he had been attacked by subterranean foes.  Other
parishes will, no doubt, claim right to this unfortunate piper, who forgot to
bring a clew with him, to guide him hack through the labyrinth.  This story
deserves the same credit, with those of many other traditionary tales; of the fabu-
lous bards.


