
718			AYRSHIRE.

years standing. As many of the houses are of recent construc-
tion, the village bears a cleanly and cheerful aspect, to which the
light tint of the freestone used here in building, contributes mate-
rially. The town is altogether, indeed, of comparatively modern
existence, as it consisted, fifty years previous to 1792, the date of
the last Statistical Account, of only three houses. At the latter
period, it contained "about 80 families or 300 people." In 1819,
the number of inhabitants is estimated by Robertson in his "To-
pographical Description of Cunninghame" at 700, and in 1831,
they were a little below 1000. As there have been two ex-
tensive manufactories established in the village since that date,
and not fewer than 21 two-storied houses erected, besides others
enlarged and repaired, the population at the present day cannot
be less than 1500 or 1600, having thus more than doubled itself
within the last twenty years.
	The houses are, in general, lighted with gas, Kilbirnie being the
smallest town in the west of Scotland thus accommodated. The
gas is procured at the usual rates, partly from the works at the
power loom manufactory, and is partly furnished by Mr John Al-
lan, a spirited individual, who, at his own expense, has erected a
work capable of supplying one-half of the village with the purest
quality of this brilliant and economical light.
	Beith, situated three miles and a-quarter from Kilbirnie, is its
post-town, and as it contains branches of several banks, and is the
seat of a monthly justice of peace court, much of the business of
this parish is transacted there. Its market is, however, merely
nominal, but the disposable produce of this, and the surrounding
parishes, finds a ready and ever-absorbing outlet, in the great trad-
ing communities of Glasgow, Paisley, and Greenock.
	Means of Communication.--There is a penny post twice a day
to Beith. The person who has the charge of the sub-office in
Kilbirnie undertakes the delivery of all letters in the parish. The
turnpike road from Dalry to Lochwinnoch, intersects the lower
part of the parish, in the direction of northeast; and another to
Largs crosses its breadth to the west. There are likewise two
turnpike roads leading eastwards, one of which runs by the north,
and the other by the south end of Kilbirnie loch--thougb there is
no part of the former, and only about a mile of the latter, within
this parish. These and two good parish roads leading into the
interior, give ready access to all the arable land, and leave scarce-
ly any additional accommodation, in this respect, to be desired.
			      3


