
                    UNITED PARISHES OF

                    SWINTON AND SIMPRIN.
PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

         THE REV. JAMES LOGAN, MINISTER.
        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE, parishes of Swinton and Simprin
were united by the annexation of Simprin in 1761. The Word
"Swinton" seems to have undergone no change since the earliest
periods of Scottish history; and like Swine-wood, the ancient name
of an adjacent tract of land, it may have been connected with
the prevalence in this district of wild boars, with which the whole
of the country is understood to have been formerly infested. Sim-
prin, there is sufficient evidence, is not a modern name; but neither
tradition nor any historical notice throw light upon its etymology.
   The united parishes form a sort of trailing oblong figure, (the
boundary lines of which are very irregularly indented) of about 4
miles in length from east to west, by 3 or 3 1\2 miles in breadth.
The surface, neither perfectly level, nor yet at all hilly, consists
of a succession of low, parallel, wave-like ridges; ranging from east
to west, with inter-accent level spaces of considerable extent.
   Climate.-The climate of Swinton may perhaps be character-
ized as rather humid; but scarcely, if at all, more so now, than
that of the contiguous parishes. A considerable improvement in
this respect seems to have taken place since the period of the
last Statistical Account. Ague, which is mentioned by Mr Cup
ples as being a very prevalent disorder then, owing to the ex-
cessive dampness of both earth and air, is now almost unknown,-
one instance only having occurred during the last seventeen years.
   Hydrography.-There are no peculiar, and but few good, springs
in the parish. They flow through a deep bed of tenacidus clay,
lying upon sandstone; and, as there is nowhere any considerable
elevation, are apt to be impure, and, unless where sunk to a great
depth, to fail in summer during a drought. A loch of consider-
able extent, called "Swinton Loch," has been drained since 1700.



