
                             SALTON.                      127

   About a year ago, a library was begun to be formed for the use
of the Sabbath scholars. It now consists of 130 volumes, chiefly
of works of a religious character. They are eagerly read by the
young people, and in many instances by their parents also. It is
to be hoped that, under the Divine blessing, this may be found a
means of advancing the moral and religious welfare of the young,
who appear in general, from the commencement of this little in-
stitution, to have imbibed a greater desire for serious and profitable
reading. A branch of the East Lothian Itinerating Libraries is also
established in the parish. For the past year, the number of sub-
scribers amounted to 22.
   Friendly Societies.-There are two societies of this kind in the
parish. One, established upwards of thirty years ago, consists at
present of 200 members, and has funds to the amount of L. 1000.
Of this sum L. 700 are lent on private security at 4 per cent. and
L. 300 are in a bank at 2 1/2. The annual subscription of each mem-
ber is 6s. 6d. The present annual income of the society, there-
fore, including interest and subscriptions, is L. 100, 10s. For the
last year, its disbursements amounted to L. 74, 18s. 3d. The ave-
rage number of individuals receiving relief is 23. The following is
the scale by which its disbursements are regulated: In the first
three months of sickness, the member receives 5s. per week; for the
next three, should his illness continue, 4s.; for the three thereafter,
3s.; and for the remaining three, 2s.; and should his indisposition
be protracted beyond the year, 1s. 6d. a-week thereafter. On the
death of a member, L. 2, 10s. are given for funeral expenses, and
10s. on the death of a child under twelve years of age. An allowance
of 15s. per annum is bestowed on the widows of members as long as
they continue unmarried. This society is in a very prosperous con-
dition, and, as is evident from the number of members, has many
contributors beyond the limits of the parish.
   The other society is formed on a somewhat different principle,
but is not less popular than the former. It differs from the other
in being a yearly and not a permanent association. Each mem-
ber subscribes from 1s. 2d. to 3s. 2d. weekly. The twopences
form the fund whence the members in distress are relieved, and at
the end of every year, a general distribution takes place, when each
member receives back the amount he has subscribed in shillings,
and a portion of the surplus, if there be any, of the weekly pence.
The society thus combines, in some measure, the principle of the
savings bank with that of the friendly association. Its scale of


