
548                        PERTHSHIRE.

be a running but a standing leap. It retains still the name of Leum
Dhonnacha Reamhair.
   2d, Leum-a-Chleasaiche,(the man of Feats' leap.) This is at the
head of Fortingal, properly so called, where the Lyon has opened
for itself a passage in the solid rock, seemingly not worn down
from the surface by degrees, as is generally thd case; but as if
the river had at once burst through, leaving the rock joined above
like an arch, wbich the swellings of the stream have in the course
of ages widened and separated. The breadth of the gullet is
about 20 1/2 feet. The depth of it is about 20 feet.
   3d, Leum-mhic-a-Cheannahbhe, i. e. the chapman's son's leap,
over the river of Bunrannoch,-which consists of first a leap to a
rock in the middle of the current, and then a spring to the oppo-
site bank. The hero of this feat is said to have been one of the
M'Gregors proscribed by the law at the time,-and pursued by the
Campbells and the black dogs, as they were called. After gaining
the opposite bank, he turned round upon the latter with all his fury,
dispatched them, and got clear off.
   4th, Leum Phurraig.-This was a nickname of one Campbell,
who lived in Carie Rannoch in the earlier part of the seventeenth
century. He was a famous marksman with the bow and arrow,
and very swift of foot,-qualifications he had sometimes occasion to
avail himself of. In flying from the Macdonalds of Glencoe, he
is said to have made the leap here mentioned over Linne-choimh-
leum, in the den above Innerchadden and Dalchosnie.*
   Records.-Most of the proprietors of this parish having risen
with Prince Charles Edward Stuart in 1745, their houses, papers,
&c. were destroyed by the royalists, and consequently the prin-
cipal family records were thus lost. There are in my own posses-
sion, documents showing, that, in the reign of Charles II., a paro-
chial school was in existence in this parish.
   Eminent Men.-Major-General David Stewart of Garth, author
of Sketches of the highlands and of the Highland Regiments, was
a native and an heritor of the parish. He died in St Lucia,
West Indies, in 1829, Governor of that island, much and justly
regretted by all who knew him.
   Struan Robertson, chief of that name, and, in his day, one of
the most considerable proprietors of the parish, was an elegant
poet. An octavo volume of Struan's poems was published after
his death from his manuscripts, or rather from the recollection of

<FOOTNOTE>Particulars are detailed in the MS.


