
58                             FIFESHIRE.

contain a very considerable quantity of saline matter, although it
does not appear that any marine plants approach nearer than two
miles from this place. Mugdrum Island, which belongs to the parish
of Abernethy, divides the river into two nearly equal portions,-
where, collecting itself into two currents, it passes along the oppo-
site sides of the island, in wbat are termed the North and South
Deeps, the South Deep forming the principal channel, and furnish-
ing the course which vessels of burden usually hold, in passing up
up down the river. Ships of 500 tons burden reach the shore at
Newburgh; but above the confluence of the Earn, several miles be-
yond which Perth is situated, vessels of 150 tons, when deep laden,
proceed with difficulty. A dredging-machine has lately been erect-
ed for deepening the upper part of the channel, and meantime, to re-
medy the difficulties of navigation, a steamer has been employed in
dragging up lighters, which convey the cargoes of the larger vessels
that land at Dundee, in which the foreign trade of Perth is carried on.
Operations are now going on upon a very extensive scale for con-
tracting the North Deep, by projecting stone dikes from the op-
posite banks into the bed of the river, where the intervening spaces
rapidly silt up, and form in a few years solid alluvial deposits, fit,
when embanked, for agricultural purposes. Mugdrum Island and
the adjacent carses have already received great accessions in this
way, and the period cannot be far distant, when, if these changes
proceed at their present rate, a former state of things will return
of which tradition still speaks, when the inhabitants dwelling on the
opposite banks of " the lordly Tay" conversed together across its
channel. The majesty of the stream will be thereby greatly di-
minished, but its utility, both in an agricultural and commercial point
of view, will be proportionally enhanced.
  Many excellent springs are to be found within the limits of the
parish, from which the town is supplied with a constant and copious
flow of that first necessary of life. One of these springs, which
rises in the south-west, in the hilly district, is called the Nine Wells;
and though that precise number of openings cannot now be traced,
there is little doubt, as tradition relates, that the name was really
descriptive of the true character of the fountain. The discharge
from the several openings is copious and of the purest quality, and
being immediately collected into one current, forms no inconsiderable
stream, which has lately been profitably employed in the operations
of a bleachfield. Here, amidst the barbarous practices of a bygone
age, those who claimed the privileges of clan Macduff at the cross,


