
                     EDINBURGH.                          685

spective drawing, navigation, chemistry, natural philosophy, the
modern languages, Eastern languages, military exercises, gym-
nasties, practical mechanics, modelling, &c.  The fees vary from
L.3, 3s. to L1, 1s. per quarter, each class.
   Other educational establishments.-Besides the above may be
mentioned the Circus Place School for elementary instruction, and
the Hill Street Institution for instruction in classics, English,
French, German, mathematics, arithmetic, writing, geography,
drawing, engineering, &c.  There are also two public seminaries
in the Southern Districts, one for boys and the other for young
ladies, where a complete general course of education is given;
a private boarding and educational establishment at Merchiston
Castle, numerously attended; and a similar establishment at New-
ington House, besides numerous other private schools in the vari-
ous parts of the town.
   Heriot Schools.-Some years ago, an act of Parliament was ob-
tained, empowering the governors to dispose of the surplus revenue
of Heriot's Hospital, for the erection of day-schools in the most
populous districts of the city, for the Gratuitous education of poor
children belonging to deceased burgesses, freemen, and other poor
citizens of Edinburgh.  Accordingly seven very commodious and
handsome buildings have been erected in the following localities:
-Heriot Bridge, Old Assembly Close, Borthwick Close, Cow-
gate Port, High School Yards.  In Old Assembly Close and
High School Yards two infant schools are also established.
These are now attended by upwards of 2000 children; and from
the efficient manner in which they are conducted, promise to be
of the utmost benefit for the general diffusion of education among
the lower orders.
   Schools for the education of the lower classes have been esta-
blished in connection with the kirk sessions of the different pa-
rishes.  Two schools founded by the late Dr Bell are also in
full operation, one in Niddry Street, attended by 400 pupils-one
in Greenside, attended by about the same number.
   The Edinburgh Education Society School, conducted on the
Lancasterian system, has upwards of 600 pupils.
   Sunday Schools.-The first Society fnr the promotion of Sab-
bath schools was formed in 1786; and the gratis Sabbath School
Soeiet in 1797.  In 1812 the presbytery of Edinburgh instituted
parochial Sabbath schools in every parish; and these have since
increased in number and efficiency.
   EDINBURGH.                                  x x


