
                              PARISH OF KENMORE.

                 PRESBYTERY OF WEEM, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                       THE REV. DAVID DUFF, A. M. MINISTER.

            	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
              Name.-So far back as anything can be traced regarding the
            parish, it has been called Kenmore; or, as it is found in the re-
            cords of bygone times, Kenmure, Candmoir, Kandmor. The
            name is evidently Gaelic, and is a compound of the two simple
            terms, " ceann," head, and " mor," great. The name has ori-
            ginated, in all probability, from the geographical character of the
            place where the parish church stands, being a beautiful and con-
            spicuous headland projecting into the lower end of Lochtay, and
            forming the southern bank of the river at its outset. But though
            this has immemorially been the name of the parish, and though,
            from an undefinable period, there has been a place of worship where
            the present church stands, it appears from the session records, and
            other old documents, that the principal place of worship, as also
            the burying-ground and residence of the clergymen, were at
            Inchadyn.*
               Extent, &c.-The parish is of great extent, containing probably
            62 square miles of surface, or about 40,000 acres. Its figure is
            exceedingly irregular, stretching on both sides of Lochtay, and
            with portions detached by the intersection of other parishes. It is
            bounded on the east by the parishes of Dull and Weem; on the

<FOOTNOTE>In the " Black Book of Taymouth," there occurs this statement, " Sir Duncan
            Campbell, 7th laird of Glenurquhay, had a daughter, Elizabeth, married in the kirk
            of Candmoir to the 2d son of Irving of Drume in 1621. " And in the session re-
            cord, of date 28th December 1729, it is said " the minister went to the ferry, but
            could not get crossing for the storminess of the day, and so no sermon at Kenmure.
            But at lnchaidon tbere was both lecture and sermon to all that came thither, and on
            that side of the river." The place then north bank of the Tay, rather more than a
            now hardly to be traced. It lies on the north bank of the Tay, rather more than a
            mile below the site of the church of Kenmore, and is comprehended within the parks
            of Taymouth. Prior to the Reformation it was a vicarage, as appears by the follow-
            ing quotations from an old and rather curious MS. in the library of Taymouth.
            " Obitus domini Morini M'Nauchtyn, vicarii de Inchadyn, apud Weym viii Aprilis
            an&deg; mv&deg; primo, et sepultus in Inchadyn. " (1501.) Again ; " Obitus Dmi Dunea-
            ni M'Neuchtyn, visarii de Inchadyn apud Perth et sepultus in Inchadyn, sexto die
            Novembris an&deg; Dmi mv&deg; xxiii."  (1523.)


