
714			AYRSHIRE.

sire, while others, built on the smaller properties, present, in every
respect, an equally strong contrast to the dingy hovels they have
supplanted.
	Great and striking, improvements, by draining, liming, and en-
closing, have been effected in this parish, within the present centu-
ry, by various individuals, and in particular, by the late William
Cochran, Esq. of Ladyland. This gentleman, besides adding
considerably to the extent of his arable grounds, by an extensive
and skilful style of draining, beautified much his estate by clumps
and belts of plantations, and was, by the consequent increased pro-
ductiveness of the soil, in the course of a few seasons, amply indem-
nified for all his outlays. He was, moreover, the first agricultu-
rist in this quarter who introduced the enclosing and irrigation of
waste lands, by which, according to Aiton, in his Agricultural View
of the county of Ayr, "land not worth more than 3s. or 4s. an
acre, produced to Mr Cochran upon II acres, 3000 stones, coun-
ty weight, or 4500 stones English, of good hay." Another por-
tion of his estate consisting of 129 acres, he raised, by his mode
of improving it, from 1s. 6d. per acre, to about L. 1 of yearly value.
In all his undertaking he was eminently successful, and most
strikingly illustrated bow much might be accomplished within the
compass of half an ordinary life, by art and industry,

	    "When science plans the progress of their toil."

	Since their introduction by Mr Cochran, agricultural improve-
ments have been widely extended here, all of which received it
fresh impulse, a few years ago, by the succession of the Earl of
Glasgow to the estate of Kilbirnie, comprising three-fourths of
the parish. Several of the largest arable farms on that exten-
sive property, are in every species of improvement rapidly ad-
vancing to the limits of perfection; while the hope may apparent-
ly be safely indulged, that the period is not distant, when all the
land in the parish, susceptible of profitable cultivation, will be in
an equally improved condition.
	Mines and Quarries.--Coal has been wrought here upwards of
a century. The first pit was on the west bank of Kilbirnie loch,
but in 1808, the water breaking in, the workings in this quarter
have ever since been abandoned. Shortly afterwards, a pit was
opened in the southern extremity of the parish, which continues to
furnish two-kinds of coal, both of a good quality. The upper
seam, which is of the description called splint coal, is three feet in
thickness, and of an average depth of fifteen fathoms from the


