
260                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

events, it may be considered as unfortunte that the ministers and
elders of this church should ever have had anything whatever to
do with the distribution of other than purely voluntary funds, as
in this way they have been placed in a positoin most unfavourable
to their own comfort, and not at all conducive to the true interest
of the people committed to their charge.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There are 5 houses in the parish, all of
them in the village, licensed to sell ale and spirituous liquors. The
number is obviously greater than can be looked upon as advanta-
geous.
   Fuel.-The only fuel used in the parish is coal, and that is
brought almost entirely from the collieries in the western district of
the county. It has risen in price within the last twelve months 40 or
50 per sent. and is at this moment almost beyond the reach of the
taboluring clastes. The quality is but indifferent, not comparable
to that of some of the coal brought occasionally from the coast of
Fife, or from Mid-Lothian.
	       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   It cannot be doubted that, since the date of the former Statisti-
cal, Account of this parish, its condition has improved. The soil
is more effectually drained; green crops are more extensively raised;
live-stock is more carefully attended to; many of the fields are bet-
ter shoftered; the general system of management is less slovenly,
and, compared with the amount of produce, less expensive. Steam
power in farm operations was then unknown; it is now employed
extensively, year after year more extensively, in thrashing out the
grain, and, as is universally allowed, with much advantage. The
spirit of enterprise is more active amongst the farmers; the la-
bourer are more alert and skilful in their several depatments;
and all the implements of husbandry are in a state of greater effi-
eveney. Within the last few years even, the science and practice
of Agriculture have made considerable advances; and there is at
present an evident tendency towards still farther improvement.

   January 1637.


