
6                           KINROSS-SHIRE.

   If Mr Spowart, who is well acquainted, and is still connected,
with working of coal at Dunfermline, on an extensive scale, shall fail
in discovering, as he once hoped to do, that mineral in his lands in
this parish, none need make a subsequent attempt.
   Zoology.-Passing from a subject of inquiry, in which, so far as
this parish is concerned, little is to be added to the general stock of
mineralogical information, the next branch of natural history, viz.
zoology, is one in which there is much more variety, and the mate-
rials are much more interesting.
   It is much to be feared that one of the effects of the late partial
drainage of the lake, has been the destruction of some of the spe-
cies of the fish, together with the diminution of the number and de-
terioration of the quality of others. Certain of the sorts of which Dr
Walker has written, seem now to be extinct, and the char, Salmo al-
pinus, one of the finest fishes of the loch, has almost disappeared; in
so much that Dr Fleming, so well known as a zoologist, and who has
been appointed a valuator of the damage done to the fishing of
Lochleven by the above-mentioned partial drainage, estimates it
at L.73, 6s. 8d. per annum. The three circumstances to which the
learned Doctor ascribes this permanent injury are, first, the cvr-
tailment of the area of the loch, secondly, tbe continued abstrac-
tion of the fish by the currents at the new sluices, and lastly, the
barrenness of the new margin of the lake. The weight of some
of the trout has been 6 1/2 lbs. of 22 oz. to the pound; nay, one was
caught nearly 18 lb. Pike has been caught in 1822, wanting only
half-a-pound of two stones, or 42 lb. Dutch weight.
   The trouts of Lochleven feed on insects of every description,
and very much on red earthworms, and insects from the side of
the loch. According to Mr James M'Gill, who has spent the
greater part of his life at Kinross, and who is uncommonly well ac-
quainted with the natural history of the district, many of the fishes
in Lochleven devour others. There are some that prey OD min-
nows, and some on shell fish of every description; but these last are
trouts of inferior quality. That which seems to give the high
colour to the fish of the lake, is the animalculae they feed on, im-
perceptible to the naked eye. These minute insects are very
abundant, and trouts in full season are always gorged with them.
They resemble jelly after they have remained a little while in the
stomach of the fish. When the contents of their stomach are not
dried, the colour is of a light pink; when dried, red.
   The fishing of Lochleven, which begins on the first of January


