
     of Dunfermline.

erected into a temporal Lordship, and given to Lord Chan-
cellor Thirlestone.  In 1641, Charles I. granted a lease of
the Lordship for three 19 years, to Charles Seton, Earl of
Dunfermline.  To this Lease the Marquis of Tweeddale
obtained a right in payment of a debt due to him by the
Earl of Dunfermline, and afterward got the lease renew-
ed in his own name.  The last grant to the Tweeddale
family having expired in 1780, the Countess of Rothes,
Lord Elgin, and others, obtained a tack of the teinds of the
Lordship, for behoof of the heritors of the parish, for pay-
ment of L. 100 Sterling yearly*.
   In the middle of the church yard, there was, till with
in these 3 years, a most venerable thorn, said to have been
400 years old; at the foot of this tree, in Popish times,
the people are said to have held a market on Sabbath, be-
fore assembling for public worship+.

   Church and Tombs.-The church is of great antiquity,
being a part of that large and magnificent edifice built by

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is to be seen in the Advocate's Library at Edinburgh, a very
elegant copy of St Jerom's Latin Bible in Ms. beautifully illuminated.
This Bible, (according to a note annexed), is said to have been used in
the great church at Dunfermline in the reign of David I.; and at the
time of the Reformation, to have been carried over to France, (along
with many other things belonging to the church and abbacy), where it
became the property of the famous Mons Foucault, as appears from his
coat of arms affixed, at the fale fo whose books, it was purchased by a
Scoth gentleman, by whom it was brought back to this country.

+On a piece of level ground, a little south of the monastery, is a hil-
lock about 15 feet high, and 300 in circumference, which, according to
tradition, was formed of sand, brought by people on their backs from
the sea, as a penance enjoined by the church in the days of Popery. The
name of the bullock, Pardieus, i.e. Par Dieu, seems to favour the story of
its origin, at least to prove its being somehow connected with religion.
On Craiglusear-bill, in this parish, there are the remains of an ancient
fortification, said to be Pictish.


