
        428                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

        of whisky provided on these occasions varies, according to the
	wealth, the liberality, or the vanity of the donors, from four to
	ten, or perhaps fourteen imperial gallons. Hundreds of people,
	old and young, gather together on those occasions, and the scene
	is closed, in many instances, by drunkenness, fighting, and blood-
	shed. This practice is most injurious to the morals- of the people,
	and ought certainly to be discontinued by the gentry.
	   Character of the People, &c.-The people are strong, healthy,
	active, and hardy. They are remarkably shrewd, intelligent, af-
	fable, 'and polite. With very few exceptions, they are regular in
	attendance on the ordinances of religion. There-are some, how-
	ever, to whom the. opposite description would be more applicable:
	they, show a cunning quarrelsome, and crafty disposition. But,
	considering the disadvantages under which the people labour-
	their temptations-the countenance which they receive in their
	folly from some of their influential superiors-tbe negligence,
	apathy, and want of activity on the part of the conservators of the
	peace, the wonder is, not that any exceptionable characters are
	found amongst us, but that they are not more numerous. Under
	proper encouragement, and especially under a judicious system of
	police, we are firmly of opinion, that the population of this country
	would form as regular, as orderly, and as industrious a peasantry
	as any in the kingdom.
	   The dress of the common people is made, for the most part, of
	home-made cloth of various colours. Young gentlemen, and
	such of the common people as feel disposed to ape their betters,
        wear the philabeg, with the other paraphernalia of the "garb of
	old Gaul."

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
           Agriculture.-The number of acres in cultivation cannot be as-
	certained. By capital and industry, much land could be brought
	into tillage. But it is doubtful whether the returns would repay
	the outlay; and good judges consider such land to be more pro-
	fitably laid out in pasture for sheep. Tenants at will, or with short
	leases of from five to nine years, have no inducement to improve
	the soil by draining, trenching, and liming. If we connect with
	these disadvantages the blasting operations of the frost in harvest,
	the agriculturist has, little encouragement to cultivate the soil ac-
	cordin to any approved system of husbandry.
           Rent.-Rents are determined by the number of sheep any place
	is supposed to pasture. It is reckoned that 2s. a-year for a sheep


