
24                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

Tish.  There are also some mineral springs of the chalybeate kind.
The most remarkable of these is one near the old castle of Fres-
.wick. The loch of Mey is the only loch in the parish; its cir-
cumference may be about a mile and a-half, and its depth is not
great.  There is no river, and only a few rivulets or burns, col-
lected from the different mosses in the winter season ; the chief
of these is the burn of Freswick.
Geolo
and Mineralogy. The rocks in general are composed
of a red sandstone, and in some places of a rock resemblinggrey-
wacke.  At Quoys there is a little limestone ; and at Mey, on the
property of the Earl of Caithness, there is abundance of it to be ob-
tained.  A light black loam, with an intermixture of moss, forms
the general character of the cultivated ground.  The lands of Mey
have in some places a mixture of clay.  Heath and deep moss,
with an occasional patch of rough pasture grass, cover fully nine-
tenths of the parish.
ZooZogy.-There are no rare or uncommon animals.  At one
period, indeed, wolves are said to have existed in the parish.
Between Brabster and Freswick, there is a hollow, called Wolfs
Burn: the tradition is, that the last wolf seen in.  Caithness was
,killed in this particular spot.  All around the coast., cod are to-
lerablv numerous: and lobsters also are caught in considerable
numbrs.  Coal-fish, or, as they are provincially termed, cudden4
are at some seasons of the year caught in immense quantities, and
,are of great use to the poorer inhabitants, as they not only serve
for food, but supply plenty of oil for light.
11, CIVIL HISTORY.
Eminent Men.-Under this head we may notice the Rev.  John
Morison, D. D., for eighteen years minister of this parish.  He
was the author of several of the paraphrases approved by a Com-
mittee of the General Assembly, and appended to the Version of
the Psalms used in the Church of Scotland.  His 'are, the 19th,
21st, 27tb, 28th, 296, 30th, and 35th.  His versions, of the 27th
and 28th were said to have been slightly altered by Logan, who
was his contemporary and intimate friend.  Several effusions of
Dr Morison's youthful muse a eared in the Edinburgh Weekly
pp
Magazine, under the signature of Muswus.  By the testimony of
all who know him,:Dr Morison was an accomplished scholar, and
an eloquent preacher.  He was a native of Aberdeenshire, and
died on  12th-June 1798, in the 49th year of his age.
Land-owners.---The pro rieto'
prepare, the Right Honourable the
FA_rj of Caithness   William James John Alexander. Sinclair of



