
328                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

   The rent of a large portion of the dryfield is not above L.1, 10s;
and an intelligent farmer says, the whole will not average above
L.2 per acre. Grain rents have been partially introduced into
the carses, and the worst lands are rated at 2, and the best at
3 bolls of wbeat per acre. The carse lands to the east of Stirling
are supposed to be at least 10s. per acre more valuable than those
to the west.
   The following is the average quantity of seed sown in the carses
to the east of Stirling: wheat, 3 bushels; barley, 4 do.; beans,
6 do.; oats, 6 do. per acre.
   The average returns per acre, wheat, 10 bolls; barley, 7 do.;
oats, 8 dO.; pease and beans, 10 do.
   Lime is extensively used. Thirty single cart loads of dung, or
7 chalders of slacked lime per acre, are, in the month of July, laid
on the fallow ground preparing for wheat. Many carse farms are
about 80 acres; but, as it is believed 100 acres could be wrought
by the same strength, it would evidently be more beneficial to the
farmer to have them of this extent.
   Besides horses for working the farm, each farmer has a few
cows; but there is very little live-stock in the carses, as the lands
are too valuable for pasture. Their object is merely to keep up
the supply of horses and cows for themselves.
   Some excellent farm-houses and offices have lately, been built,
but two-thirds, it is believed, remain in their former homely state,
and that, too, where rents to a high amount are paid.
   A ploughman's wages, with bed and board, L.16; a servant
woman, do. do., from L.6 to L.7. Many of the men sleep in
stable lofts and bothies, a practice at once destructive of the ha-
bits of domestic life, and deeply injurious to their moral cha-
racter.
   Rent.--The valued rent is L.20,860. The real rent iS consi-
derably above L.40,000.
   The duration of leases is nineteen years.
   William Murray, Esq. of Touchadam and Polmaise, Vice-
Lieutenant of the county, and principal beritor of this pa-
rish, first introduced that system of draining, which was known
by the appellation of "wedge-draining," but which has since
been more appropriately designated "thorough draining." The
introduction of this leading improvement in agriculture may well
lay a claim to be styled an era in the rural annals of Scotland,
being so admirably adapted to its humid climate. The entire


