

372                  ROXBURGHSHIRE.

Kirk of Mynto," the Laird of Bethroule and William Langlandes
becoming their sureties.  In a note, the learned editor, Mr. Pit-
cairn, adds, that "these were likely to be ten score 'paces nobiles
of paiss,' "English gold coins or nobles, which are frequently men-
tioned in our old acts of Parliament.  Although found in the kirk
of Minto, there is no reason to suppose they were "pace" or Easter
offerings.  There is no doubt that this "pace" was treasure trove
accidentally turned up and concealed by Sinclare, and as such it
belonged to the King, who on the other hand, could have had no
claim to pious Easter offerings made grateful remembrance of
the ressurection."  Though no remnant of the old church at Has-
sendean is now left, some idea of its appearance may be formed from
a view in Cardonnel's Etchings representing part of the walls and
an arch, which the description says was the "eastern end of the
choir, of Saxon architecture, and no inelegant design."  The short
and massive columns or piers are in the style usually. though not
very properly, called Saxon; but the arch, which is rounded, has
the Norman zig-zag ornament or chevron.  The remains of some
other buildings were turned up to the north of the burying-ground
when the garden wall now standing was built.  It is said that the
wood, taken from ruins of the church, and employed in joist-
alleged to be so extensive found in the old ecclesiastical buildings
of Scotland, as to countenance the idea of its having been, at one
time, generally grown in this country, and to a large size.  There
is reason, however, to suspect that in most of these cases the tim-
ber is that got from the Quercus sessiliflora, which in grain and
texture bears so close s resemblance to the Spanish chesnut, that
it requires a practised eye to distinguish them.
   Modern Buildings.-The freestone of the neighbourhood af-
fords a good material, both in colour and durability, and has been
employed in several buildings recently erected, all of which show
an increased attention elegance of design.  Minto House, from
a plan of Archibald Elliot, Esq.  Architect, is a large and commo-
dious structure having an imposing effect, to which the situation
greatly contributes.  The House of Teviotbank has been lately
built from a tasteful design, in the old English style, by Wil-
liam Burn, Esq. architect.  The manse and church are also new,
for which William Playfair,  Esq.  architect, furnished the draw-
ings;-the first being a Tuscan villa, the latter a Gothic building,

                             3


