
670                           LANARKSHIRE.

house or Point House, as it is called, is built, may originally have
been a delta.  We cannot, in any other way, account for the fact, that
this is the only part of the parish of Govan which is found east of
the Kelvin.  In an old legal instrument in the Glasgow Chartu-
lary, " the islands between Govan and Partick" are mentioned. *
There are no such islands now. In Blaeu's map of the county of
Renfrew, however, which was published at Amsterdam in 1662,
" Whyt Inch," and part of the property now called Meadowside,
appear as islands.  These may have been the islands referred to
in the instrument.  At the same time, it hs not improbable that
another island, at the mouth of the Kelvin, may also have been one
of them, and that it may have been deprived of its insular form bv
being connected with the main-land, at a still earlier period than
the others.  The shallowness of the Clyde not many years ago
will almost appear incredible to those who now see ships of 600
tons burthen, and drawing 16 or 17 feet of water, proceeding ma-
jestically up that river, and depositing, in the store-houses of Glas-
gow, the cargoes which they bring from the most remote parts of
the world.  At the mouth of the Kelvin, in 1770, according to a
survey made by the celebrated James Watt, the depth was only 3
feet 8 inches at high water, and 1 foot 6 inches at low water. +
Previous to this time, the Clyde was not navigable for vessels of
more than 30 tons burthen, and in summer even such small craft
were often stopped by the shallowness of the river. ++  On the 26th
of May 1660, Patrick Bryce, tacksman of the "coal heugh" in
Gorbals, complained to the magistrates of Glasgow, that he could
not get his coals loaded at the Broomielaw, owing to a scarcity of
water, and that he had been obliged. on this account, to crave li-
cence to lead them through the lands of Sir George Maxwell of
Nether Pollock, for the purpose of loading them "neare to Meikle
Govane." S  There were formerly three fords in the lower part of
the parish, by which the Clyde might usually be crossed with per-
fect safety.  One of these, which was near Braehead, was called
the Marline ford.  There was another near the present ferry;
and the third, was situated at the east end of the village of Go-
van.  The most remarkable height on record to which the Clyde
has risen, in consequense of heavy ruins, is thus taken notice of in

<FOOTNOTE>"Et insulas inter Govan et Perthec." Tom. i. p. 12, MSS. in Bib. Coll. Glasg.
          Cleland's Annals of Glasgow, Vol. i. p. 291.
          Pennants Tour, Vol. ii. pp. 130-131.
          Glasgow Burgh Records.


