
               		      BANFF.                              45

west of the town, entering from the Huntly road, and passing through
to St Catherine Street; but the scheme was abandoned from want
of the concurrence of some of the proprietors in the proposed line.
   A gas-work was established by a joint-stock company in 1831.
The quantity of gas consumed in the year ending May 15, 1834,
was 456,213 cubical feet; in 1835, 463,547 cubical feet.
   In 1830, a new and very commodious market-place was laid out
in a centrical part of the town, with complete accommodations of
sheds, stalls, &c.
   A few years ago, public baths were erected by a joint-stock com-
pany. They are fitted up in a very convenient manner for hot,
cold, and shower baths. They are open every day in summer, and
once or oftener a-week during the remainder of the year.
   Notwithstanding that about L. 1100 was laid out in the year
1810 for the conveyance of water into the town by pipes, the sup-
ply in the summer season, in the public cisterns, is often extreme-
ly deficient. On many premises, however, there are pump-wells.
   Means of Communication.-The post-office in the town of Banff
is the only one in the parish; but this office has three sub-offices
attached to it, at Aberchirder on the road to Huntly, and New
Pitsligo and Brucklaw on the road to Peterhead; also a penny post-
office at Macduff. There are daily mails to and from Aberdeen
and the south, to and from Inverness and the north, and to and from
Peterhead; also a direct mail three times a-week to and from Fra-
serburgh, and the same to and from Huntly. The revenue of the
post-office of Banff, stated at the period of the last Statistical Ac-
count to be but L. 800, was, in 1829, (after deduction of dead and
re-sent letters) L. 1284; since that year the revenue has been regularly
decreasing, being for the present year (1835) ending 5th
December, only L. 1131. A very considerable portion of the revenue
is derived from the correspondence with the northern parts
of the continent, on account of the herring fishery.
   The length of the turnpike road passing through the parish in
the line from Aberdeeen to Inverness, and extending from the west
end of the bridge of Banff to a bridge across the burn of Boyndie,
is (exclusive of a part which forms the High Street of the town)
about two miles and a-half, perhaps a little more.
   The turnpike road from the harbour of Banff to a point on the
south-eastern boundary of the parish (at the road leading to the
farm of Wardend) when it enters into the parish of Alva, is also
two miles and a-half.


