
298                          AYRSHIRE.

these are generally narrow belts immediately around the farm-
houses. From a wish to get as much shelter as possible, with a
small sacrifice of ground, the trees are often allowed to grow up
in so crowded a state, that they soon choke each other. There
are few trees of great age or size in the parish. The largest is a
plane tree on the farm of Laigh Gameshill. It measures 13 feet
10 inches in circumference at the height of three feet from the
ground.
	Rent of Land.--The rent of land cannot be exactly ascertained,
as more than 1600 acres are in the natural possession of the
owners. The average rent of that occupied by tenants, which
being of various qualities, may be considered a fair average
of the whole, is L.1, 4s. per imperial acre. The uncultivat-
ed land is, on an average, equal in value to that under tillage,
for though the natural pasture and moss are worth less, the mea-
dows are worth more. According to this estimate, the rental of the
parish, if all was in lease, would be L. 7864, 16s. The valued
rent is L. 4115, 17s. 6d. Scots.
	The average rent of grazing for the summer is, for a milch cow,
L. 4, lOs.; for a cow or ox fattening, L. 3, l0s.; for young cattle
of different ages, L. 1, l0s. each on the average. The grass of a
ewe or full-grown sheep for the year costs 15s.
	Rate of Wages, Prices, &c.--The rate of wages of farm-labour-
ers and country artisans varies a little at different times, and ac-
cordind to the qualifications of the persons hired, but for several
years it has been nearly as follows: man-servant for the year, with
board and lodging, L. 16; maid-servant, do. do. L. 8; labourers,
per day, with victuals, in summer, 2s.; in winter, ls. 8d.; in har-
vest, 2s. 6d. to 3s.; females for field-work, per day, with victuals,
in summer, ls.; in harvest, ls. 6d. to 2s.; tailor, per day, with
victuals, ls. 10d.; mason and carpenter, in summer, 2s. 6d.; in
winter, 2s.
	Several kinds of work are occasionally done by the piece. The
following is a list of the prices usually paid: building ruble wall,
per rood, exclusive of material, L. l, lOs.; plastering per yard, do.
3d.; building dry stone dikes, per fall, do. ls. l0d. to 2s.; mow-
ing meadow hay, per acre, 3s. to 3s. 6d.; mowing rye-grass hay
per acre, 2s. 6d. to 2s. 9d.; reaping oats per acre, 9s. 6d. to 10s.
6d.; ploughing, harrowing, and sowing per acre, L. 1, ls.
	Live-Stock.--The cattle kept in the parish are of the Ayrshire
breed. Great attention has long been paid to their improvement,


