
                                  FORRES.                161

   extent from Inverness, eastwards until it expands into the German
   Ocean, and beyond it the mountains of Ross, Sutherland, and
   Caithness.
	Soil, Climate, &c.-As may be supposed, from the above topo-
   graphical description, the soil varies considerably according to its
   situation. In the lower and more fertile part of the parish, it is a
   fine loam, in some places having an admixture of clay, and in ge-
   neral superincumbent on a sandy or gravelly subsoil. When under
   good management, it yields in luxuriance all kinds of grain
   and green crops. The high ground in the south-east of the pa-
   rish is composed in some places of a retentive clayey soil, and in
   others of a compound of sand and moss, having likewise an ad-
   mixture of gravel and large stones which impede the plough, and
   render its improvement very laborious. The middle part of the
   parish is generally of a light sandy nature, which, however, when
   properly fertilized with manure, is highly productive.
   	Morayshire has been always celebrated for the excellence of its
   climate, and the parish of Forres partakes in a high degree of the
   general mildness, dryness, and salubrity of the county: facts which
   are fully established by the general healthiness and longevity of
   the inhabitants. The parish is very seldom visited with severe
   epidemic diseases, although fevers are not uncommon, and cases of
   consumption and other pulmonary complaints are extremely rare.
   No case of Asiatic cholera has occurred in the parish. Se-
   veral individuals have of late years been known to attain nearly a
   hundred years of age; and there are still living in the parish seve-
   ral persons considerably above ninety,-while it is no uncommon cir-
   cumstance to see men and women employed in active labour, who
   are upwards of eighty. Less rain falls here than in most other dis-
   tricts of Scotland, which, taken together with the dryness of the
   soil, renders the country in the neigbbotirbood of Forres particu-
   larly agreeable to reside in, and remarkably, early in the ripening
   of crops and fruits. Cherries often ripen in favoured situations in
   the first week of June, and barley harvest frequently commences
   about the middle of July. The prevailing winds throughout the
   year are the west and south-west, which are generally accompanied
   with dry and genial weather; but in the spring season there is of-
   ten a period when cold easterly winds prevail, which retard the
   early vegetation, and destroy the fruit blossoms in the gardens.
	Hydrography.-It has been already mentioned that the river
   Findhorn bounds the parish throughout its whole length on the
   ELGIN.                                   L


