                           KIRKCUDBRIGTH.                       11

ress of Caerbantorigum, which they also seized.  This fortress,
which may be considered the principal border garrison of the Sel-
govae, stood on an eminence of about 250 feet high at Drummore.
The Romans retained possession of it during the reigns of the An-
tonines, or, as some think, for nearly 300 years.  The inhabitants
of the locality must have derived many advantages from the pre-

sence of these more civilized and industrious foreigners; for Agri-
cola was particularly zealous in promoting improvement among the
conquered tribes of Scotland.
     Wbilst Malcolm IV., son of David L, was a minor, Fergus the
Lord of Galloway, whose palace stood on an island in Lochfergus,
near the town of Kirkcudbright, abjured his connection with the
Scottish crown, and asserted his independence as a sovereign
prince.  The King took up arms to chastise him, and twice invaded
his rugged territories, but without success.  Malcolm marched
against the Galwegian chief a third time, with additional forces
and redoubled ardour, and completely prevailed.  In 1160, Fer-
gus resigned the Lordship of Galloway, and retiring into the abbey
of Holyrood, next year died of grief.  He bestowed upon this in-
stitution the church and village of Dunrod, with the lands and
church of Galtway.  Fergus was a prince of great piety and some
notoriety.  He married Elizabeth, illegitimate daughter of Henry I.,
King of England, and was much at David's Court.  He was
ancestor of Bruce and Baliol, and from him the royal families of
both France and England are descended.
     Fergus was succeeded by his two sons, Uchtred and Gilbert,
between whom, according to the Celtic law, his dominions were
divided.  The brothers became mutually jealous of each other,
and on the 22d of September 1174, whilst Uchtred resided in his
castle at Lochfergus, he was attacked by his elder brother, de-
prived of his tongue and eyes, and murdered in a most barbarous
manner.  Uchtred, like his father, was distinguished for his piety:
he bestowed the church of Kirkcudbright upon the monks of Ho-
lyrood, who enjoyed the tithes and revenues, whilst the cure was
served by a vicar.
     The last in the male line of the ancient princes of Galloway was
Allan, who died, in all probability, in the castle of Lochfergus, or
Kirkcudbright Castle, and was buried in Dundrennan Abbey,
founded by Fergus, his great-grandfather.
     During the competition for the crown of Scotland, Edward I.,
who was appointed umpire, committed the keeping of the castle



