
     Statistical Account

visits this neighbourhood in the spring, occasioned by the most
exhalations from the fens, and the easterly winds from the
Cheviot Hills, at the distance of a few miles southward.  The
people are in general healthy; but no instances of remarkable
longevity have occurred during the incumbency of the pre-
sent minister.

   Cultivation and Produce.-A considerable change in the
mode of agriculture has been introduced within these few
years.  The English plough universally prevails, and 2 horses
instead of 4 oxen and 2 horses are now adopted.  Raising
turnips, with the preparation for that crop, supersedes summer
fallowing entirely.  They succeed remarkably well in a dry
and light soil through the whole country.  Oats and barley
are the grains molt commonly sown.  Wheat, however, is
now more frequent than formerly, after fallow, turnips and
potatoes; which last is much and justly encouraged nor family
use, as well as for horses, cattle and swine.  Pease, by many
judicious farmers, is not considered as a profitable crop, since
broad clover and rye-grass have Been introduced; but they
are continued to be sown in smaller quantities, to mix with
barley, for the bread of labouring people and cottagers of all
descriptions.  The raising of hemp is dropt here; but that of
lint is continued, although not in such quantities as formerly,
both for family use and the public market.  It is sold on an
average at 11 s. or 12 s. per stone*.  An early kind of oats

<FOOTNOTE>

*That which grew at the Wester Moss was in the highest reputation, for the
bluish cart which it acquired, from the quality of that stagnated water in which
it was steeped.  It sold at about 15 s. or 16 s. the stone.  But since that mass
was drained (for the purpose of digging a seam of marle found there) it has lost;
that peculiar colour which enhanced its value.  Steeping lint in running water
is sound prejudicial to flax, destructive to fish in rivers, and otherwife a great
nuisance, and accordingly is under very severe prohibitions by the justices of
peace.


