
       136                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       rish; the other towns or hamlets consist of tenants' houses built at
       the head of their lots.
         Stornoway Proper is a burgh of barony, and contains a population
       of 1000 souls.  Bay-head, Guirshadir, and Laxdale adjoining, con-
       tain nearly 900; on the north side of the town, Inailite, Sandwich,
       and Holm, quite contiguous, contain as many; Stenish, Culna-
       grein, and Cross Street contain a population of 130, which makes
       a total of almost 3000 in the immediate vicinity of the town, at no
       greater distance from the burgh than one mile.
         Stornoway is the chief town in the Northern Hebrides.  It has
       gradually increased from a paltry hamlet of a dozen houses, to the
       size and importance of a considerable town, containing several
       streets within the barony, namely, South Beach, North Beach,
       Point Street, Kenneth Street, Cromwell Street, Church Street,
       Kieth Street, and Francis Street, Bay-head, &c.
         Sheriff and Commissary Courts, Bailie, Excise, and Justice of
       Peace Courts are here held regularly.
         Means of Communication.--The nearest market-town is Ding-
       wall, which is 120 miles from Stornoway.  The means of commu-
       nication are by vessels, and the weekly packet between Poolewe
       and Stornoway.  There is one post-office.  The average income
       of the post-office is L. 330.  Government pays L. 150 per annum.
       The yearly proceeds would afford a better packet than the one
       employed.
         There are no turnpike roads.  In the last Statistical Account,
       I find that road-making, commenced in 1791; and in 1796 four
       miles of the Barvas road were made.  Though at that period the mak-
       ing of a road betwixt Stornoway and Uig, was supposed "to re-
       quire the labour of many ages," there is now a tolerable road
       made from sea to sea, the distance of twenty miles: and since that
       time, there are nearly 200 miles of road made by statute labour.
       Moss is found to be an excellent elastic foundation for a road, when
       covered with gravel and red clay till.  They are in a shocking state
       of repair.  A layer of nine inches of such road metal as is to be
       found here, is absolutely necessary to make them comfortable.
         There is not a stone bridge across a river in the island to my
       knowledge, though the waters are often dangerous, and lives are
       lost by the impetuous torrents.  The principal harbour is Loch
       Stornoway, where there is safe anchorage for an indefinite number
       of vessels.  There are several good quays along the North Beach.


