
			KILSYTH.                           139


Monibrugh, originally applied to the kirk, which was anciently
on a part of the Barwood, where the burn of Abroch rises, and
which well corresponds to the description implied by the name;
and having been used to designate the kirk, would very naturally be
applied to the whole parish, till the addition from Campsie of a va-
luable part of the estate of Kilsyth, gave occasion to the new name.
   With regard to the etymology of Kilsyth, the first syllable is
familiar to all; the second, syth, is somewhat uncertain.  It is either
the name of one of the saints of the Romish calendar, or derived
from sythin, * which signifies peace. In the West Barony, near a
place called Chapel-green, there was a tumulus, in which an urn
and ashes were found; and there is a tradition, that this cairn was
erected over the dead slain in a battle betwixt the natives and the
Romans, which was the forerunner of a peace.
  Extent and Boundaries.--In form, the parish approaches to
an irregular oblong; running in length along the north high-
road from Edinburgh to Glasgow 7 miles. The mean breadth
is fully one-half of its length. It contains nearly 24 miles square.
The rivers Carron on the north; and Kelvin running west,
and Bonnyburn running east, on the south; Inchwood burn
on the west; and the Bushburn, on the east,-form the natu-
ral boundaries of the parish. It lies contiguous to St Ninians
and Fintray, on the north; to Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch, on
the south; to Denny, on the east; and Campsie, on the west.
The Kelvin, which rises at Kelvinhead, near Ruchill, three miles
east from the town of Kilsyth, and which runs, or rather creeps,
nearly parallel to the great canal, and very near it, divides the
parish from Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch, and from the county
of Dumbarton. The whole of Kilsyth parish is situated north of the
Kelvin, with the exception of the two houses at the jetty to the south
of Kelvinhead, which, though beyond Kelvin as it now runs, are con-
sidered as in Cumbernauld, as to payment of road money, &c. but
not ecclesiastically. The houses at Craigmarloch are in Cumber-
nauld, although the westernmost house is situated where the Kelvin
previously flowed. With the above exception, the parish of Kil-
syth does not touch the canal, although very near in its approaches
to it.
    Topographical Appearances.--The greater part, excepting the
hill and moorland district to the north, exhibits very strikingly the

<FOOTNOTE>See Nimmo's History of Stirlingshire.


