
194                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

offices on the west, with a small court, having altogether a deso-
late appearance. On the east, are the ruins of the old chapel, cal-
led John Knox's Kirk, and an old barn and stack-yard, occupied
by one of the inhabitants, who has a small piece of land from the
proprietor. Adjoining the offices to the west, some of the inhabi-
tants remember several rows of houses, forming a little village of
themselves, all of which have been swept away, without a stone re-
maining to mark the place where they once stood. One old man
remembers seventy houses being taken down. At that time, the
farm of Southfield formed a part of the Longniddry estate. The
present population of the village is 195.
   The village of Penston is chiefly inhabited by colliers. The
farm-house is at the west end of it, and is commodious and in good
repair. A handsome set of offices, with a steam-engine, has just
been erected, and also a saw-mill. The houses in the village are
in a state of bad repair; the place is altogether dirty, and, though
situated in the heart of one of the finest agricultural districts of
Scotland, has a very uncomfortable and unhealthy appearance.
It stands upon an eminence, about half a mile to the south of the
great English road, and a mile west from Gladsmuir kirk. The
inhabitants are supplied with water from three open wells, one at
Northmains, another behind the old manse to the east, and an-
other to the west of the farm-house, all on a line running from east
to west. Were a proper drain to be formed on each side of the
road, with a declivity from the houses, it would contribute much
to the cleanliness and health of the place. The present popula-
tion is 302.
   Means of Communication.-The means of communication en-
joyed by the parish-are very abundant. 	The great London road
runs about two miles and a half through	the centre of the parish.
Along that, road, six stage-coacbes pass and repass every day, at
different hours, besides the mail-coach. On the coast road, the
North Berwick coach passes and repasses	every day, besides car-
riers to Aberlady, Dirleton, and North Berwick, on different days
of the week. There is also the road running from Coates, past
Setonhill and Hairlaw, through Longniddry to the west. These
roads are intersected by others running north and south, the whole
breadth of the parish. They are all kept in good repair, by which
means the facilities of intercourse are very great. The bridges in
the parish are merely little arches, suited to the paltry streams of
water that flow through them.


