
                       KINGOLDRUM.                        615

Kingoldrum, without the consent of the abbots "Quare prohibeo
firmiter nequis in eis," &c. Three perambulations made at dif-
ferent periods by the abbots and monks distinctly mark out the
boundaries of the parish. It is not a little remarkable, that the
names then given to the several farms and hamlets 600 years ago
are the same as at the present time. What portion of the parish
was covered by the royal forest it would now be difficult to say,
as no traces of it can be discovered. Flint arrow-heads have been
picked up in the fields to the eastward of the church. Perhaps
these may have been used in the pursuit of the chase.
  Eminent Characters.-Scott, an eminent judge in Toronto in
Upper Canada, was the son of a minister of that name in this
parish.
  Land-owners.-The landed proprietors in order of their valued
rent are: Thomas Farquharson, Esq. of Baldovie; David Wed-
derburn, Esq. of Pearsie; The Right Honourable The Earl of
Airlie; the Heirs of the late Alexander Stormont, Esq. of Kin-
clune; The Honourable Colonel Ogilvy of Clova; Mrs Colonel
Young of Ascreavie.
  Peter Wedderburn Ogilvy, Esq. of Ruthven, possesses a small
part called the Mill and Mill lands of Auld Allan; but for some
reason unknown, he has never been reckoned as an heritor.
  Parochial Registers.-There are six volumes belonging to the
kirk-session. They have been accurately kept, save during the
incumbency of one clerk of session. Parents are very negligent
in registering the births of their children.
   Antiquities.-The Castle of Balfour, built by Cardinal Beaton,
is the only building of antiquity. It has long been dismantled,
and a ruin, but must originally have been a place of consi-
derable strength. The structure is in the Gothic style. The
family of Balfour has long ago sunk into that of Fotheringham
of Powrie. Mr Farquharson of Baldovie, the present proprietor,
lately caused two wings of the castle to be taken down, to afford
materials for the erection of a farm-house. The beauty of the
old ruin has been, in consequence, in a great measure destroyed,
   There were on the hill called Schurroch, at three different
places equally distant from each other, several large stones, erect-
ed in a circular form called Druidical temples. One of these
has been removed. Upon the top of the hill,  Catlaw, there is a
large cairn of stones; but whether these stones be the ruin of
some rude building, or a place of observation from whence sig-


