

218                         STIRLINGSHIRE.

The temperature of the water as it fell from the pump, 47&deg;50.
The quantity of water delivered by these springs in twenty-four
hours, was 360 imperial gallons. The tacksman, however, states.
that this supply is far below the average; and he attributes the
deficiency to leakage in the pipes. He thinks that, in general, the
supply of the weak water equals that of the strong. The weak.
water, like the strong, is transparent and colourless, and destitute of
smell. Its taste, though rather bitter, is by no means unpleasant."
(Forrest's Report.)
   The value of these springs, in a medicinal point of view, is un-
questioned. Considered as a saline aperient, the Airthrey waters
far surpass those of Pitcaithly and Dunblane; and are only infe-
rior in the amount of their impregnation to some, of the springs at
Cheltenham and Leamington. "It may be even doubted," says
Mr Forrest, "if they are not entitled to take precedence of these
springs." As a remedy for scrofula, the same gentleman ranks
them second only to the waters of Pitcaithly, on account of their
richness in muriate of lime; and the Airthrey spring, No. 4, he
considers as decidedly superior even to these last mentioned in this
point of view. But, if the value of a mineral water is to be infer-
red not only from the facts furnished by its chemical analysis, but
also from experience of the benefits arising from its use, the
Airthrey springs must be placed in the very highest rank among
the mineral springs of Great Britain. Every season adds to their
reputation; and, in defiance of all the inconveniences of very indif-
ferent accommodation in the neighbouring lodging-houses, the
numbers that repair thither in search of health are every year
rapidly increasing. It is much to be regretted that both the lodg-,
ing-houses, and the pump-room itself, are still in a style so little
corresponding to the increasing fame of the waters, and the num-
ber of visitors.* I am told, that, during the present season, near-
ly 500 persons have drunk of the waters in one day; and
numerous families are every year obliged to return home for want
of accommodation, even of the meanest kind. The pump-room
is small and mean. A very neat building, in the cottage
style, has, however, been lately erected by Lord Abercromby, and
conveniently fitted up with hot, cold, and shower baths. It is great-

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, the accommodation at Bridge-of-Allan has been
much improved, by the erection oft considerable number of very comfortable lodging-
houses; and, as the increase of visitors seems fully to keep pace with the increase of
accommodation-,we may expect that more will be built shortly.


