
60                      SHETLAND.

   At a small holm, in the Loch of Tingwall, the assize was held,
and the judgments of the other courts (Gula Thing) were revised.
On a hill at a little distance, is the place where the last sentence
of the law was inflicted on the condemned. After these islands
came under the Scottish Crown, this court was removed to Scal-
loway. The last who suffered there, were Barbara Tulloch, and
her daughter, Ellen King, who were condemned for the crime of
witchcraft, and put to death in a cruel manner in the beginning
of the eighteenth century.
   Scalloway is the only village in the parish. It was anciently
the capital of Shetland, and a burgh. The name is said to sig-
nify the harbour beside the mansion houses,-Scalla signifying
house, and way, or more properly vie, a roadstead. Some sup-
pose it to have been Scallavick, the little harbour. In this village
most of the Shetland gentlemen had residences. And even in the
recollection of some old people, the Sinclairs of House, (descen-
dants of the St Clairs of Caithness,) Mitchells of Westshore,
Scotts of Giblesta, Umphrays of Asta and Berry Mitchells of
Girlsta, Dicks of Fracafield, Dicks of Warmadale, Mowbrays,
&c. bad houses in Scalloway. The only gentleman in the village
now is Mr Scott of Scalloway. The castle of Scalloway, a fine
old ruin, stands to the east of the village. It was built, in 1600,
by Earl Patrick Stewart. Great oppressions and heavy burdens
were imposed upon the people during the erection of this edifice.
The village has increased much of late, and is chiefly supported
by the fishing.
   Ancient History.-St Ninian is said to have introduced Christ-
ianity into Shetland; but it did not generally prevail until 995.
These islands were in a very unsettled state (being frequently
taken by Scotch pirates, and retaken by the Danes,) until King
Harold, in 776, took possession of Shetland, Orkney, and the
Western Isles. Hacon Adlestain introduced the Gula Thing law
into Shetland. After King Harold was slain at Stamford Bridge,
in 1067, his son visited Shetland, &c. and, with the consent of
Adlebert, Archbishop of Bremen; established bishops in all these
islands. After his return to Norway, in 1672, he granted to the
merchants of his new city of Bergen the sole right of trading with
the islands, excepting that 360 cwts. of wool were annually ex-
ported the use of the Archbishop of Bremen and his clergy.

<FOOTNOTE>Island Law, as the highest courts were held in islands.


