
               DUNOON AND KTLMUN.                            577

mencement of the winter season. The east wind, though not ac-
companied here with the same depression of atmospheric tempera-
ture as it brings on the east coast of Scotland, is, notwithstanding,
keenly felt : and the months of March, April, and frequently a
considerable portion.of the month of May, may be said to be the
coldest period of the year.
     Judging from results, both in ordinary and extraordinary cir-
cumstances, the climate of this parish may be considered highly
conducive to health.
  Hydrography.-The Frith of Clyde, immediately opposite
Dunoon, is about three miles across to the opposite sbore. There
is a regularferry, now, indeed, not so much in demand since tbe
introduction of steam navigation. The landing place of the ferry-
on the opposite, coast of Renfrewshire, is at about a quarter of a.
mile toward Gourock, from the Cloch Light-house. This is the
narrowest part of the frith to the westward of Gourock, expand-
ing as it does from the point of Gourock northward into more
spacious width, as it sends off the branches of Loch Long and the
Holy Loeb; and widening again beyond Dunoon, the coasts of
Renfrewshire. and Ayrshire trending pretty rapidly southward,
and that of Argyleshire on the northern side, maintaining its direct
tion westward to the point of Toward, trending slightly north-
ward. Opposite Dunoon, the depth of the frith in the centre,
and increasing towards the Renfrewsbire coast, till approaching-
close to the coast, is about sixty fathoms. From the point of
Strone, a bank is raised, and extending to a considerable distance
across the fri,th in the same direction as the point, and occasioned
by the tides flowing into and from Loch Long and the Holy Loeb,
on which the depth, in ordinary tides, is only sixteen fathoms, and
suddenly increasing to thirty-two and upwards on either side. The
Current in the portion of the frith opposite Dunoon runs, in neap
tides, at the rate of -9 knots an hour, a-nd in spring tides, about
1 1/2 knots, -increased here no doubt by receiving the branch
currents from Loch Long and the Holy Loch in ebb tides, and
supplying those arms in flood tide. The tide at Dunoon rises
and falls, in spring tides, about fourteen feet perpendicular, and in
neap tides, from nine to ten feet. The bichest and lowest tides
generally occur at the period of the, vernal equinox.
    A very extensive and highly picturesque view of the frith is pre-
sented from almost any part of the'eoast in the neighbourhood of
Dunoon; but from the Castle-hill, Dunoon, it is particularly- in
ARGYLE.


