
62                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

merly subjected by individuals pawning or selling the articles which
had been furnished to them.
   Sick Man's Friend Society.-This benevolent society was
instituted in the year 1792, and its object is, the relief of the
indigent sick, by affording them such aid in money from time
to time as the funds will bear, and the circumstances of the objects
seem to call for.  The town is divided into thirty-two districts, which
are allotted to visitors, whose duty it is personally to investigate the
cases recommended for assistance, and to direct the amount of
relief to be given, which is in payments of 1s. each, monthly, fort-
nightly, or weekly, according to the necessities of the case.
   The amount distributed annually has been, for some time, nearly
L.320, the whole of which arises from the annual contributions of
members, donations, and occasional legacies.
   Female Society.-This society was commenced in 1805, for the
relief of aged and indigent females.  Its funds are derived from
the subscriptions of its members, and occasional donations and be-
quests.  It is managed by a committee of ladies, who personally
investigate the cases recommended before giving relief.  The dis-
tribution is in sums of 1s. 6d., 2s. 6d., or 3s. twice a quarter, and
in this way about L.250 are distributed annually.  The number
of regular pensioners on the society's books is at present about
230, besides a good many receiving occasional supply.
   Bible Societies.-In 1811, a society was instituted in Aberdeen,
auxiliary to the British and Foreign Bible Society, and its operations
were carried on with considerable zeal and success, and besides
supplying considerable numbers of Bibles to the surrounding dis-
tricts, contributions to a large amount were sent by it to the so-
ciety in London.  The disputes that arose in 1826 in consequence
of the distribution of the Apocrypha by the London Society, and
other practices that were by many felt to be wrong, led in 1827,
to the formation of another Bible Society, whose surplus funds have
generally been devoted to aid the nperations of the Edinburgh
Bibles Society.
   Previous to this, a society had been instituted in Aberdeen for
the purpose of supplying Bibles at prime cost to the sailors; trad-
ing at the port, which, after issuing in the course of nine years
upwards of 2300 Bibles, was, in 1827, joined with the Auxiliary
Naval and Military Biblo Society, then recently instituted, the
object of which is the same with that of the similar societies in
London, Edinburgh, &c. viz. to supply Bibles and Testaments at a
reduced price, (generally about two-thirds of the prime cost,) to


