
420                             ROXBURGSHIRE.

for a short way the boundary between Ednam and Kelso; and
then dividing the former parish into two unequal parts, it falls into
the Tweed about three miles and a half below Kelso.
     Soil, &c.--The land in this parish consists of the following va-
rietes of soil in nearly equal proportions, viz loam with a gravelly
subsoil; clay upon rather a porous subsoil; light gravel with po-
rous subsoil, and a light soil upon strata of moorland. These soils
rest principally upon a freestone bottom.
                             II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     The firts settlement which took place at Ednam is believed to
have been, next to that at Jedburgh, the earliest in this part of
the country. There is no history of this parish either printed or
in manuscript, and no individual resident in it possesses any docu-
ment illustrative of its history or antiquities; nor is its name as-
sociated with any important historical event. From the chartu-
lary of Kelso, and other documents referred ti in the "Monastic
annals of Teviotdale." it would appear that the parish of Ednam
had contributed to the support of the monks of the convent of Kelso.
Besides the privilege of digging turf for fuel in Ednam moor, and
the fishing in the Tweed from the bounds of Kelso to those of
Birgham, the monks had three ploughgates of land, and also
Ednam mill, with power to prevent the rection of any other
within the parish, and to enforce the services which the inhabit-
tants were bound to render to the proprietor of the mill.
     Eminent Men.-- James Thomson, author of the Seasons and
other poems, was born in the village, most probably in the manse
of Ednam, in the year 1700. He was the son of Thomas Thom-
son, the firts minister settled in Ednam after the Revolution,--
and of Beatrix Trotter, his wife. This parish cannot be expect-
ed to furnish any traditionary recolloections of Thomson. When
he was little more than a mouth old, his father was translated
to Southdean; and there is no reason to believe that the poet
had any further connexion with the place of his nativity. he
received the rudiments of education in the town of Jedburgh.
His earliest poetical efforts are said to have been encouraged and
directed by the Rev. Robert Riccaltoun, minister of Hobkirk; and
after finishing his course of study in the University of Edinburgh,
he left Scothland, and never returned to it. In the year 1819-20,
an obelisk, 52 feet high, was raised to his memory. It stands
on raising ground within the property of Mr waldie of Hender-
syde, nearly a mile the village. The expense of this erec-
                                3



