
               			FINTRY.                           47

school has lately been erected in the village for the benefit of the
parish, but chiefly for the children of those employed at the
cotton-mill. The sum of L.3000 was mortified for this purpose
by the late Mr John Stewart, who carried on a mercantile  busi-
ness in Fintry for nearly fifty years, and died in 1836. The
building is elegant and commodious, and includes a house for the
teacher. The school is, at present, attended by about 100 day-
scholars, and from 50 to 60 evening scholars. Mr Stewart also
left L. 500 to form a fund for a Savings' Bank in Fintry.
   Literature.--There is a small subscription library in the parish,
which was established about nine years ago. The books were
read with eagerness, for two or three years after it was opened,
but they are now much neglected. The taste for reading has de-
creased.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of persons receiving
parochial aid, is from 9 to 16. The highest allowance that has
been given, for years past, is L. 1 per quarter. A cart of coals in
addition is given to the most needful, in very severe winters. Some
get 15s., some 10s. or less, according to their necessities. There
is no regular assessment in the parish ; but for the last ten or twelve
years, the heritors have assessed themselves voluntarily in a small
sum, varying, according to circumstances, from L.10 to L. 20.
With this exception, the poor are supported wholly by collections
at the church, amounting to about L. 30 per annum, the interest
of a fund of L.400, and by mortcloth and proclamation dues. The
whole expenditure (including session-clerk, precentor's, and bell-
man's salaries, &c.) amounts to about L.60 per annum.
   Inns.--There are five licensed public-houses in the parish.
   Fuel.--Coals are generally carted twelve miles, from Kirkintilloch,
by a very hilly road, at the rate, for some time past, of L. I * per
ton; or from Bannockburn or Banknock still farther. There are
coals at Campsie, distant only eight miles; but the others are pre-
ferred.

	<FOOTNOTE>They are now reduced to about 15s. per ton.

Revised March 1841.


