
94                  ARGYLESHIRE.


Donald Smith, M. D. While both excelled in general scholar-
ship, they were, at the	same time, pre-eminent for the extent,
intimacy, and correctness of their acquaintance with their own
vernacular tongue, and its cognate branches. Dr John Smith
was a distinguished and most successful preacher, as well as an
able scholar and divine. He has placed his countrymen under
a lasting debt of gratitude by the distinguished share he took
in translating the Scriptures into Gaelic. His translation of
the Prophecy of Isaiah will be held in admiration, as long as
the language into which he rendered it endures, and as long as
there is a Gaelic scholar found alive, who can appreciate its beau-
ties. At the request of the Synod of Argyle, he published a re-
vised and corrected version of the Psalms of David, which is de-
servedly held in high estimation for the simplicity and purity of its
language, and the easy, graceful, and harmonious flow of its versifi-
cation. It is that which is in general use in the counties of Perth and
Argyle. He published several professional works of great merit:
also an Agricultural Survey of the county of Argyle, drawn up
at the request, and for the information, of the Board of Agricul-
ture, which proves him to have been a man of great and varied
talent and information. He was born at Croft Brackly, and died
at Campbelton in the year 1807.
  His brother was born at the same place in the year 1756, and
died in Edinburgh in the year 1805. *
  On the 20th of March 1724, the parish gave birth to one who
holds a pre-eminent place amongst the Highland bards of mo-
dern times, Duncan McIntyre, better known to his admiring
countrymen by the distinctive appellation of Donacha b/a5n nan
/o5ran, or fair-haired Duncan of the Lays, He was born, on
the farm of Druimliart, in the braes of the parish. His pa-

  <footnote>The following tribute to the character of this good man aud eminent scholar,
from the pen of the Convener of the Committee of the Highland Society, viz. Mr
Henry Mackenzie, the author of ther Man of Feeling, In intimating the death of Dr
Smith to that distinguished body, will satisfactorily show the high estimation in which
be was held. "It is with infinite concern the Committe has to sympathise the society of
the death of its excellent coadjutor, Dr D. Smith who died, after a very short illness,
on the very day -22d May-when the last of his labours in its service, the concluding
sheet of this appendix, issued from the press.The Committee has to sympathize with
every lover of Celtic literature on the low of a scholar aud antiquarian, whose extent
of knowledge, whose acuteness, and whose industry have seldom been equalled. Its
acquaintance with him, on occasion of compiling this report, induces the Comittee
to add another praise, not less great,nor less honourable, though of less general con-
corn, in its severe regrets for the loss of those many virtues and estimable qualities
(not less estimable for the simple and assuming manners that accompanied them,)
which Dr Smith possessed as a man."


