
554                      ARGYLESHIRE.

awe again to escape by its natural channel at the south-western
end, after the manner of all other similar bodies of water.  The
terraces, therefore, above spoken of may surely, with great proba-
bility, be attributed to the agency of this lake, during, the far-dis-
tant period when it passed through this valley into the sea, bring-
ing along, with it, and rounding in its course, fragments of the
rocks found along its upper shores.  The only other solution seems
to be, either that these terraces are raised sea beaches, which their
height above the present sea level and the absence of marine shells
seems to refute; or that they may be attributed to the agency of
primeval glaciers, which, it is supposed, even the most zealous advo-
cates of that now fashionable theory would hardly assert, were they
to examine the condition in which they are found on the spot.
   Zoology.--Black game, grouse, partridges, snipes, and wood-
cocks (in their season) are abundant in the parish.  Pheasants
have lately been introduced, and are now becoming very nume-
rous.  Water-rails, Scotch duck, widgeon, teal, and other docks,
together with a variety of divers, and other sea-fowl, are plentiful
along the coast and in Lochawe.  Wild geese and swans occasion-
ally visit the coast, during severe winter weather.  The landrail is
common in summer and harvest.  Roes aiid hares are very plen-
tiful, and have abundance of cover in the plantations.  Foxes were
formerly very numerous; but, of late, their number has been very
much diminished by trapping.  Otters and seals are occasionally found
along the coast.  Badgers, wild cats, martens, polecats, and wea-
sels are sometimes to be met with; but not so frequently as for-
merly.  Rats, mice, and moles are very numerous.  Adders and
lizards are rarely seen.  In the Bay of Crinan and Loch Craig-
nish, herrings are taken both with nets and the fishing-rod, as
also all the other kinds of fish common to the west coast.  There is
a very valuable salmon fisbidg at Crinan; and the river of Add,
which flows into Loch Crinan, affords excellent angling for salmon
and trout.  In Loch Ederline, char is very plentiful.  Lochawe is
celebrated for salmon and trout fishing.  Oysters, mussels, and
crabs, are found in Loch Craignish; but they are now rather
scarce.  Fresh-water mussels, containing pearls of great value,
have also been found in Loch Ederline.
   Botany.--Few or no rare plants are found in the parish. The
woods and plantations in the parish cover a space of 1189 acres,
and consist principally of ash, oak, birch, alder, hazel, Scotch fir,


