
34                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

cessaritly required. The paper-mills of Valley field were on that
occasion fitted up for the reception of 6000 prisoners, whilst those of
Eskmills, then used as a cotton manufactory, accommodated 1500
British soldiers. This occurrence could not fail to produce re-
sults very unfavourable to the social and religious well-being of the
parishioners. The peaceful artisan gave place to the soldier; and
the din of a camp, with its attendant irregularities, prevailed where
formerly nothing bad interrupted the orderly occupations and Sab-
bath solemnities of a Scottish village. This circumstance gave,
however, unusual life and activity to the place, and enriched some
of its inhabitants; but it may be doubted, if it proved in any way
advantageous to their moral habits and religious feelings; nor per-
haps, have the unfavourable effects then produced on these latter,
even have quite disappeared. On the close of the war, however,
in the year 1814, the mills happily returned to their former pro-
prietors and purposes,--an event which was hailed by the inha-
bitants with a general illumination, and other demonstrations of
their heartfelt joy. The only memorial which now remains of the
residence of so many warlike strangers, is a very chaste and appro-
priate monument erected by the proprietor of Valley field mill,
ever the remains of upwards of 300 prisoners of war, who were in-
terred in a beautiful spot amidst his grounds. The design was
furnished by Hamilton, and bears, after recording the purpose for
which it was erected, the following line from the elegant but little
known Sanazarius suggested by Sir Walter Scott: "Grata
quies patriae, sed, et omnis terra sepulchrum." Underneath is this
simple addition, "Certain inhabitants of this Parish, desiring to
remember that all men are brethren, caused this monument to be
erected." It is understood, however, to have been raised at the
sole expense of A. Cowan, Esq.
   Eminent men.--The parish cannot boast of many names cele-
brated in the world either of letters or of arms. Individuals have
not been awaiting, however, of that plain, but practically most use-
ful stamp, who accomplish in a quiet way for their neighbourhood
most beneficial and happy results, and whose memorial may, there-
fore, be preserved in parochial history. Of this description was
Sir James Clerk of Penicuik, whose combined judgment and taste
accomplished effects which, for the times in which he lived, may
be considered astonishing. The house and grounds of Penicuik
are striking monuments of his enterprize and taste, and of the eco-
nomical judgment with which he managed his resources. In his


