
                      CARNOCK.                         691

and other western mountains, together witli the Pentland hills,
and the rising grounds to the east.
  Hydrography.-There are but few streams in the parish, and
all of them unimportant, except as watering.  the localities through
which they flow.  They run from east to west, and after joining
other rivulets, fall into the Frith of Forth, beyond the bounds of
the parish.  From external appearances, there seem to be a few
mineral springs, chiefly of the chalybeate kind; but they are little
attended to.  Of other springs, there are several, which are all
perennial, and which furnish an abundant supply of excellent water
for the use of the inhabitants.  Under this head, also, should
perhaps be mentioned the Ink Craig, in the neiglibourbood of the
village of Carnock, which is so called from its producing a liquid
resembling ink.  "A chemical analysis," says the former Account
of the parish, "was made of this liquid by the ingenious Dr Blacko
when it was found to contain a mixture of coal, flinty earth, and
clay."  Its appearance to the eye is simply that of water oozing
through a black substance resembling coal, with which it has be-
come impregnated.  The liquid forms a very tolerable ink, and
might, for ordinary purposes, be used as such.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks of this parish, are chief-
ly sandstone, limestone, and different varieties of trap.  The
strata dip in all directions; but in the, north side of the parish,
the dip is generally to the north-west, north, or north-east; while
in the south, the dip is to the south and south-west. Sandstone
is the most extensively diffused of all the rocks, being, met with
in almost every part of the parish; and in one part, where it pre-
sents a continuous bed of many acres extent, and of great thick-
ness, lying so near the surface as to be entirely exposed, or only
partially covered with a thin coating of moss and heath.  In some
places, the freestone beds seem to have been raised by an under-
movement; and hence the rock is frequently found in a shivered
state, and sometimes forming knolls above the more compact beds
below.
   Trap or whinstone, also, is of frequent occurrence, and many of
the elevations of the parish are formed of it.  Where the Masses
are exposed, they are usually found to rest upon sandstone or lime-
stone.  Different varieties of it are met with; but nowhere does
it assume the coltimnar form.  Greenstone is not uncommon.
Carniet Hill presents us with loose sand and freestone raised to a
considerable elevation, as if by some under-movement, and with


