
     of Fettercairn.

and discovering his cruel fate, set fire to the building, and 
reduced it to ashes*.

   Character.-The people, here are not deficient in dili-
gence, and their outward deportment to their superiors is
decent and respectful.  There are a few litigious people, as
is the cafe among every multitude, but the inhabitants in
general, are not inclind to law-suits.  They give regular at-
tendance upon public worship, on the Lord's day, and no
doubt the example of their superiors, in rank and station,
is useful in that respect.  They, who cannot spare one day
in seven, to the honour of their Redeemer, and to the care of
their souls, must soon find, that the sinful cares of time, will
usurp the regard due, to the more important concerns of 
eternity.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A mile to the east of this town, the ruins of a castle, where Kenneth
is reported to have resided and occasionally lived, are visible.  It is in the
adjoining parish of Fordoun, and near to the remains of Kincardine, an-
ciently the county town, where the Sheriff courts were held, till the year
1600, when they were removed by act of Parliament to Stoneliaven.  At
this same Kincardine, the unfortunate Baliol, made his submission to
Edward I. Some historians, who mention this matter, say, that it happened
at Montrose; others, at Brechin.  Sir David Dalrymple, it the 1 ft volume
of his Annals of Scotland, informs us, that the resignation was made at
Kincardine.  The accuracy and candour of Lord Hailes deserve the high-
est confidence.  He fixes the matter indisputably, by quoting the record
itself, which is the best of all evidence*.  Sir David Dalrymple says,
"The record bears, that Baliol made his submission at Kincardine on
"the 2d of July 1296;" and then he adds, " All the historians whom I
"have had occasion to consult, place this remarkable event on the 10th,
"and not on the 2d of July."-The place in the Feedera, to which Lord
Hailes refers, is in tom. 2. p.718.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Annals, vol. I .p.291.  Note.


