
     Statistical Account

as at that period.  Their dress is more gay, and expensive;
their living more plentiful.  Though it is not the case in
this parish, to any considerable degree, in show, expense,
manner of living, and dress, there is an imitation of supe-
riors creeping into the country.  Perhaps 30 years ago, the
boundaries between the ranks were more distinctly marked,
and more attentively observed.  Inferior ranks begin not to
scruple to invade the boundaries of those above them.  The
genius of the people leads them to industry and enterprise;
besides, they are very communicative.  This disposition
suffers no experiment to lie concealed, either as to the man-

<FOOTNOTE>

back.  The corns were changed from green to whitish, and from whitish to
green, according as frost or rain happened to prevail.  Our lower, ablest,
and best lands, which will produce 8, 10, or 12 boils of oats an acre in
good years, yielding from 15 to 16, or perhaps 17 pecks of meal the boll,
that year yielded 4 or 5 bolls an acre, and these yielding not above 8, 10,
or 11 pecks of meal the boll. I heard of some oats in the county, which
yielded only mill dust, instead of meal.  Barley of that crop, which was
much used for meal, fell greatly short, both of its usual quantity and qua-
lity.  he higher grounds, raised above the region of the noxious hoar-
frosts had a more equal progress towards ripening And these high, weak,
light grounds, not reaped till the month of November,  produced oats,
yielding about 15 pecks of meal the boll. There grounds were less hurt
by the frost and rain.  Of that crop, farmers paying considerable rents,
could scarcely procure as much oat-meal from their farms, as was suffici-
ent for their own families, and oats for lowing their ground.  People, both
in towns and the country, traversed the country and particularly this pa-
rish, where we had several mills and thought themselves lucky if they
could obtain a peck or two of meal, to supply the immediate and urgent
demands of their families.  They would gladly have given more than the
high current price, to have been assured of finding it at any particular
place.  The scarcity continued through summer 1783; and had it not
been for a supply of English oats from Leith, I doubt not but some must
have perishead for want.  Some farmers, foreseeing the distressed condition
of the country, sowed some barley early.  Great quantities of potatoes
were planted, and the harevest of 1783 was early.  By these means, the
country obtained a speedy and pretty plentiful supply.  Amidst the scar-
city of provisions, there was one comforting circumstance.  The people, in
general, were not distressed for want of money.


