
                    PARISH OF CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.

              PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                  THE REV. HENRY SIMSON, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name and Boundaries.-THE ancient name of this parish was
Logie Durno or Durnock, which is said to signify a low or hollow
place.  Before the Reformation, it would appear that there were
three places of public worship in the parish, viz. Logie Durno,
Fetternear, and a chapel, formerly called * Capella Beatae Mariae
Virginis de Garryoch, where the present parochial church is now
built.  Early in the sevedteenth century, the parsonage of Fetter-
near, lying on the north side of the river Don, was annexed to
that of Logie Durno on the north side of the Ury.  The church was
then transferred from Logie Durno to its present situation, at the
east end of the hill of Benochie, on account of its being the most
centrical part of the parish, and appointed to be called Chapel of
Garioch, in a decree respecting the stipend obtained about that
time.  It is the seat of the Presbytery of Gariocli, which consists
of fifteen members, and forms one of the most convenient and
compact pr6sbyteries in Scotland ; no clergyman being farther dis-
tant from the usual place of meeting than nine miles.
   The parish of Chapel of Garioch is 10 miles in length from
north to south,and from 2 to 5 from east to west.  It forms an
irregular figure.  Its greatest breadth at the northern extremity
is 5 miles, and at the southern 3; from whence it contracts, as it
approaches towards the centre of the parish, where its greatest
breadth does not exceed 2 miles.  It is bounded on the north by
the parishes of Rayne and Daviot on the east, by Bourtie, Keith-
hall and Inverury; on the south, by Monymusk, and that part of
the parish of Kemnay which lies on the south side of the river of
Don ; and on the west, by the parish of Oyne, and hill of Benochie,
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface of the parish is un-
even but can neither be said to be mountainous or hilly.  There

<FOOTNOTE>Chart. Aberdon, p. 31.


