
                          PARISH OF FALKIRK. *

             PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND

                             TWEEDDALE.

THE REV. WILLIAM BEGG,
THF REV. THOMAS GORDON, 2d Congregation,  Ministers.
THE REV. JAMES W. TAYLOR, Grangemouth,

              I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name, Boundaries, &c.--FALKIRK appears to have been a town
      of some note in the eleventh century. The oricin and etymology
      of the name are involved in much obscurity. The town is supposed
      to have been at one time denominated Ecclesbrae, or the Church
      on the Brow, as descriptive of its situation. In the Gaelic language
      it is called Eglais bhris, or the fallen church, and sometimes Eglais
      bhrec, signifying the spotted church. The name last mentioned
      has been translated Vario Sacello, and as such appears in charters
      of a comparatively recent date, supposed to have arisen from
      the colour of the stones used in the building, or from the diffe-
      rent kinds of architecture of which it was composed. Another sup-
      position is, that the present name is formed of the Latin word val-
      lum, and the Saxon, kirk, originating in the circumstance, that the
      church stands on or near the line of the ancient wall of Antoninus.
        The parish of Falkirk is situated in the eastern division of the
      county of Stirling, is separated from the Frith of Forth by a small
      part of the parish of Polmont, and extends about nine miles in
      length, and from two to five in breadth. It is bounded on the
      east, by the parishes of Polmont and Muiravonside; on the south,
      by Muiravonside and Slamannan; on the west, by Cumbernauld
      and Denny; and on the north, by the river Carron, which, di-
      vides it from Dunipace, Larbert, and Bothkennar. The course
      of the Carron, however, having, many years, ago, in several
      places, been altered, some parts of this parish are now  on the
      northern side ; and certain small parts of the parishes of Larbert
      and Bothkennar are on the southern, or Falkirk side of the river.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by John Burns, Esq. Writer, Falkirk.
      STIRLING.


