
	92                          FIFESHIRE.

	to be resorted to. Some ironstone is also found amongst the rocks
	at the shore, imbedded in their laminae, or rolled in by the tide. A
	person has a lease of it from the different proprietors; he employs
	a few hands in digging and collecting it, and usually ships it off to
	Newcastle, whence he brings English coal for sale.

				 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	  Kingsbarns was disjoined from the parish of Crail by an/act
	of the Commission of Teinds in 1631. Whether any chapel for
	the administration of religious ordinances previously existed, is un-
	known. In the parish register we find it recorded, that, in 1630,
	a contribution for the benefit of the poor was made.-which seems
	to have been paid by all classes of the people, and at successive
	times, as could be afforded. But as the date is exactly the year
	preceding the disjunction of the parishes, it seems highly probable
	that the contribution was commenced and conducted with the view
	of establishing a separate poors' fund, and forms no evidence that
	there was any church here previously. The parish records are
	wonderfully entire, running up with little interruption to the ear-
	liest period of its independent existence, though not entering with
	any minuteness into the improvements which have been effected
	upon the conditions of the people and the habits of society.
	  Land-owners.-The landed proprietors, and the amount of their
	valued rents, stand thus:-Sir David Erskine of Cambo, L. 3010,
	3s. 4d. Scots; David Hay Balfour, Esq. of Randerstone, L. 998,
	13s. 4d.; David Monypenny, Esq. of Pitmilly, L. 916; George
	Cheape, Esq. of Kippo, L. 881, 3s. 7d.; David Lindsay, Esq. of
	Lochton, L. 216, 16s. 5d.; General Graham Stirling, L. 171 ;
	John Bell, Esq. of Kilduncan, L. 159, 10s.; total, L. 6353, 6s. 8d.
	Scots.
	  Antiquities.-There are no antiquities in the parish of any
	consequence. In levelling and improving the braes on the sea
	shore, numerous stone coffins, rudely constructed of coarse flags,
	and containing human bones, have been found. In one instance
	only, on the occasion of lowering a small height on the road to
	St Andrews, the action of fire had been applied, and the bones
	were found calcined and reduced to fragments, and placed in a
	hole of very small dimensions, carefully flagged. They are usually
	considered as the remains of the Scandinavian freebooters, who
	in ancient times made frequent descents upon the eastern coast
	of Scotland, -though they are not of the great size traditionally
	assigned to the men of these days.


