
148                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

skulls and scattered bones catched a strong light. Our figures,
too, touched with the paley flame, showed the features, or an out-
stretched arm, while the parts of the body removed from the light
were lost in the gloom. Even the deep and sonorous voice of the
parson had its effect. The whole scene was admirably adapted
for the canvass; but it would require a very rare talent in the painter
who should attempt it."*
   There is no safe harbour in this island for large shipping; but a
quay sufficiently secure for their own purposes has been built by the
inhabitants.
   Name of Muck.-The Island of Muck derives its name, it is said,
from the monks of Iona,-having been first called Monk Island,
which afterwards by corruption was changed into Muck. It was in
former times church lands, attached to that celebrated monastery.
   Extent and Topographical Appearances of Muck.-Muck is reck-
oned 2 miles long, and 1 broad. It is a low fertile island, well
adapted for the rearing of black cattle, and for the cultivation of
green and corn crops. With the exception of a little hill in the
north end, whose summit is covered with heath, it is all green.
The grass is of the finest description. Upon the whole, it is a
beautiful little island. There is no safe harbour in it, but small
boats are secured by means of a quay, built by the inhabitants.
Here there is no peat for fuel, so that the people are under the
necessity of importing this necessary article of household economy
from the mainland of Ardnamurchan.
   Name of Rum.-The Island of Rum derives its name from its
magnitude and extent, in comparison with the other islands; Rum
signifying in Gaelic roominess or capacity.
   Extent and Topographical Appearances of Rum.-It is of a circu-
lar form, and about 18 or 20  miles in circumference. The island is
lofty and mountainous; and although a few of the hills are green, yet
the most of them exhibit a rough, abrupt, and craggy appear-
ance. From the rocky materials of which they consist, thet are,
especially in winter during snow, dangerous and unsafe for shep-
herds, who frequent them in quest of sheep, so that upon more
than one occasion, some of them have been lost. Upon the east-
south-east and north-east sides, the groundd is covered for the most
part with heath, strong heather, and coarse grass. The soil is soft
and wet, composed of peat earth over a substratum of rock. On
the west and north-west sides, it is almost all covered with a green

<FOOTNOTE> Jameson's Mineralogy of the Scottish Isles, Vol. ii. p. 41, &c


