
                   GLASSARY.                              691

the generally short leases are not calculated to awaken confi-
dence; the frequently mean accommodation for the families in-
creases, if it engenders not slovenly habits; defective fences, which
expose expensively raised crops to the nightly depredations of
cattle, discourage, if they do not disgust him; and insufficient
office-houses, giving neither security to the crop nor comfort to
the stock, leave him little in a climate changeable beyond,calcula-
tion, that he can rejoice in as the fruits of his labour.
   It must also be said, that too much is often expected of the
farmer in this quarter. It appears that, so far back as 1792, * the
tenants paid seven and a half per cent. for money expended in im-
provements; and it is understood that, on some properties at least,
they do so still. The proprietor has a right to expect that the
possessors of his lands shall render tbem better rather than worse,
going on with the spirit of the times; but he has not a right to
expect that that class of men who have no permanent interest in
the lands shall improve them for his perpetual benefit. Reason,
religion, and justice, teach that be who is able and rich, and whose
property receives the advantage, should make some sacrifice for
the benefit of the tenant, rather than that the resources of the
latter should be exhausted to penury in increasing his stores.  The
slightest consideration sbows that the advancement of money at
seven and a half per cent., if legal, is, to say the least, an exaction
which is intolerable; for at this rate, on an eighteen years' lease,
the proprietor who advances L.100 receives, first, compound in-
terest at five per cent. for his money; he then receives his whole
capital advanced, and somewhat more; and he lastly receives his
farm improved to his hands for nothing. Or, in other words, the
farmer gives him five per cent. for his money, pays it to him all
back, and improves his land for him,--conferring every obligation,
and receiving nothing.
   Fisheries.--The principal fishery in Lochfyne is that of her-
rings,and it is carried on with varying success. Much may pro-
bably be yet done in advancing the knowledge, facilitating, the
labours, diminishing the casual losses, and improving the condition,
pecuniary, and moral, of the fishermen. As it is, some advances
are making. Their boats are becoming larger and better; and
the Ayrshire fishermen have brought in a good style of skiff, with
a single lug-sail. A few years ago they were all wherry or schooner-
rigged. They change the colour of the paint frequently, the men

                  <FOOTNOTE>Last Statistical Account.


