
146                             RENFREWSHIRE.

of this parish, enters it on the eastern side, and flows in a gently
winding course to the town of Paisley, whence, after forming a
beautiful and picturesque waterfall a little above the Seedhill
bridge, and bending round to the northward, it pursues its course
towards the Clyde.  It is joined at Inchinnan bridge by the Black
Cart, which had previously received the waters of the Gryfe, near
Barnsford bridge; and their united streams fall into the Clyde,
about three miles below the town.  In the White Cart, perch,
trout, flounders, and braises, or gilt-heads, are found, but not in
great quantities, owing, it is thought, to the public works on its
banks.  We are told, by some old historians, of fine large pearls
having been found in this river, but these have long since com-
pletely disappeared. *  Below the town, this river exhibits little
beauty, but above it, much ; its banks being frequently elevated,
and clothed with a rich drapery of wood.
   In consequence of a short canal having been cut to avoid the
shallows at Inchinnan bridge, and other improvements on the ri-
ver, made about fifty years ago, the Cart is navigable up to the
town of Paisley, for vessels of from sixty to eighty tons burden.
These improvements, which are particularly mentioned in the
former Statistical Account were completed at an expense of L. 4000.
In the year after they were finished, the tonnage was let at L. 151.
Since that period, the sum for which it has been let has increas-
ed.  For the five years mentioned below, it has been as follows:-
For 1831, L.222; for 1832, L.321; for 1833, L.300; for 1834,
L. 291 ; for 1835, L. 260.
   Additional improvements on the river, for which an Act of Par-
liament has been obtained, are now in progress.  These, when fi-
nished, will greatly increase the revenue arising from it, as well as
improve the commercial interests of the place.  For many years,
smile track-boats have been employed on the river, for the con-
veyance of passengers to and from the steam-boats on the Clyde;

<FOOTNOTE>In Principal Dunlop's "Description of Renfrewshire," written upwards of 140
years ago, and lately printed by the Maitland Club, we have the following account
of these pearls. " The most noted peculiar rarity this shire affords is that of pearls,
found in the water of White Cart, about Paisley, and above it for three miles.
Though it be not that considerable, that the proprietor of the water and land adjacent
claims an interest in them, but every person hath liberty to search for the them, yet
pearls are not only frequently here found, but of such a fineness and magnitude, as
may be compared with any, except what the Indies afford; and they are transport-
ed to other countries in good parcels, so that Tavernier, the great French Jeweller, in
his travels to the East Indies, taketh notice of them.   They are found in the bottom
of the water, in a fishes shell, larger than that of the muscle.  The fishing is most
in the summer time." p. 143.  These " pearls," says Dr Boog, in the former Sta-
tistical Account, " have long disappeard, and the river has become a more certain
source of wealth by its utility to an industrious and manufacturing neighbourhood."
Stat. Acc. Vol. vii. p. 77.


