
     of Longforgan.

   Marsh Reed.-A Species of the around, called phragmites,
or common marsh-reed, and which grows by the sides of 
rivers, or in standing waters, is found in great abundance
here.  Of late years it has been propagated upon the banks
of the river Tay with great success, particularly at Errol
and Seaside; and ever since the thereshing-mills have been
established, which totally disqualify the wheat-straw for
statch, the propagation of reeds has been an object of consi-
derable importance to proprietors, for they are sold at a 
guinea for one hundred bunches, each measuring one yard
round, and they are sure of a ready market for as many as
they can raise; and the introduction of reeds for thatch is
attended with this advantage to farmers, that the wheat-
straw is now condemned to the dung-court, and is applied 
where it ought to be, to increase the manure of the farm*.

<FOOTNOTE>

ber of trees upon the same estate now, but they have not been valued.
Amongst other, there are some very remarkable, such as an arm, called
Glamiss tree, which measures 27 feet round, near the root, and 17 feet a
yard high; another ash, 19 feet round near the root, and 14.2 yard high;
elms, 11 feet; horse-chestnuts, 10 feet; poplars, 10 feet; firs, 9 feet;
planes, 9 feet; yews, 6 feet; lime, 7 feet three inches; thorns, 6 feet; on
thorn, 6 feet 10 inches; all taken at about 3 feet from the ground.  One
fir at a yard from the ground, 13 feet 6 inches; close to the ground.  One
feet; and the diameter of the top is 22 yards.  And, within these few 
years, planes have been sold for L.13 an L.14 each; and firs cut down 
containing 90, and a beech blown down this year (1796), containing 127 
cubic feet of measurable wood in their trunks.
   The oaks, in general, are young; none, or very few, above 50 or 60
years old; but they thrive remarkably well, particularly in the clay; as a
proof of which, there are many upon the estate of Castle-Huntly, planted
from the nursery in 1761, which measure from 4 to 5 feet round.  The 
larix is but lately introduced here; but it thrives well, and upon every king
of soil.  There are great plenty of walnuts, the fruit of which ripens well
in general.
   *About 20 years ago, the late Mr Henry Crawford of Monorgan made
the first attempt to plant reeds upon the sides of Tay, which bounds this


