
168                           WIGTONSHIRE.

the north, and, from Kirkmabreck toward the south. The river
Cree separates also the county of Wigton from the Stewartry of
Kirkcudbright; on the south, Penninghame is bounded by the
parish of Wigton, from which it is divided by the Bishop-burn, to-
wards the east side; and towards the west by a small rivulet, which
rises in the moorlands and runs into the Bladenoch; on the south-
west and west, Penninghame is bounded by Kirkinner and Kirk-
owen, from which it is separated by the River Bladenoch; on the
north, it is bounded by the parish of Colmonell, in Ayrshire.
	The parishes of Penninghame and Wigton occupy the ridge
formed by the Rivers Bladenoch and Cree; of which ridge about
four miles from the southern extremity belong to Wigton.
        Topographical Appearances.-Penninghame is much narrower
towards the northern than towards the southern end; it increases
much in breadth below Newtonstewart, particularly where it com-
prehends the moss of Cree. There is a range of higher land from
north to south, nearly in the middle of the parish, sloping towards
the rivers on each side. There are no mountains nor hills of any
height at all considerable; and I am not aware that the elevation
of the higher land above the level of the sea has ever been accu
rately ascertained.
	The moss of Cree is a tract of low flat land, on the south-east
corner of the parish, extending to 1500 or 2000 acres. It is co-
vered deeply with moss; but a portion of it on the east side, next
the river, has been long reclaimed, and produces excellent crops
of wheat, oats, and beans. Some progress has been made in re-
claiming the west side also, and with much success.
        Meteorology.-The range of the barometer is from 28 1/2 to 30 1/2
inches. It does sometimes exceed those points, but not often. In
December 1838, it fell below 28 inches.
	The prevailing winds are from the south, south-east, and south-
west; and from those points are the heaviest rains. There are
sometiles rains from the east of long continuance, but generally
lighter than those mentioned.
	With the exception of marshy spots, the climate of, Penning-
hame is rather dry, and it is healthful. The air is, upon the
whole, mild, and the cold in winter is mitigated by the sea breeze.
        Hydrography.-The tide flows up the river Cree by the side
of the moss to within a short distance of Newtonstewart. The
shore is flat and clayey, and the clay is generally covered more or
less deeply with sand.


