
     Statistical Account

amount of real rent, are secrets which the public, it is
thought, should not pry into.  Be it so, ne sutor ultra cre-
pidam; but there can be no harm, surely, in figuring it a-
way.  If then it be true, that the real rent comes nearly

<FOOTNOTE>

ther hand, too much caution cannot be used in keeping temptation at a
distance from that class of people whose minds are seldom, at the proper
age, tutored to the love of virtue.  Mr Morrice, though he no doubt suf-
fered a great loss in this event, did immediately begin the building of
another house, the plan and situation of which he entirely made ne??
but had not the pleasure of seeing it fully completed, before death re-
moved him to it a better habitation.  The character which he left behind
him, is that of an honest, sensible and benevolent man.  Mr Robert Mor-
rice, his only brother, succeeded to the whole of his landed estate, and
the greatest part of his money.  This gentleman, for several years, was
engaged in the affairs of trade and commerce at Glasgow; from which,
with an excellent character, he hath drawn considerable gains; these add-
ed to his inheritance, are more than sufficient for all the purposes of
genteel living, which he enjoys in ease and elegance, to the great plea
sure of all who know him, being endeared to them by his amiable man-
ners, integrity, candour, humanity, benevolence, and the warmest friend-
ship.  His early engagements in business estrange him to the affairs of
the country; but his habits of application, and aptness to learn, have qua-
lified him for directing the cultivation of his own estate, and for contri-
buting his example to the benefit of those who need to be guided by the
good conduct of them, whose advantages of education and improvement
are such as do not fall to the lot of the many.  He has finished and fitted
up in an elegant manner the house which his brother had begun, dressed
the land about it in good taste, made a pleasant approach, several gravel
walks, with other ornaments, added some conveniencies to the offices,
and drained some fields that were spouty and sour.  The house of Craig is
delightfully situated on the banks of the Irvine, which, after falling in
a beautiful cascade, from a mill-dam on the south of the garden, appears
again under the windows, in a surface smooth as glass.  The Frith of
Clyde, the Rock of Ailfa, and the Hills of Arran, terminate the view on
another quarter.
   In the immediate neighbourhood of this charming site on the N. E.
is Carmel-bank, the property of Mr John Cuninghame, to whom this ac-
count is indebted for some hints of information.  His house stands on the
bank of the Carmel, from which circumstance it has its present name;


