
348                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

	The castle of Tilwhilly, built on the slope of a hill on the other
side of the Dee, commands an extensive prospect towards Aber-
deen. It is formed of several plain massive buildings, communi-
cating with each other, and apparently erected at different periods
without much plan. It ceased to be the residence of that branch
of the Douglas family upwards of 100 years ago, and is now oc-
cupied by the tenant of the surrounding farm. It contains nume-
rous apartments, and has a dark vault, formerly used, it is said,
as a prison. The entrance of the whole is still furnished with the
ancient grille and bar.
	The other mansions are elegant and commodious modern build-
ings, remarkable chiefly for their interesting situations, and the
beauty of their grounds. The villas, which are all situated along the
Dee, display very considerable taste. The church, which existed at
the Reformation, was placed in the burying-ground, near the brink
of tile river. The only remains of this anbidnt building are a frag-
ment of the font, bearing the arms of the Abbey of Arbroath, and
one or two other unimportant relics. It was rebuilt in 1775, and
being found too small and inconvenient in 1824, it was removed
a few hundred yards to a higher situation, on the opposite side
of the public road. It is a plain substantial building, in the Gothic
style, sufficiently neat and commodious within, but defective in hav-
ing the tower in front too low, and in having neither a vestry nor
porches behind.
	The Bridge of Dee was first erected by public subscription in
1798. It consisted of a central wooden arch, 175 feet wide, hav-
ing a smaller stone arch of half that width on each side, and a
small supplemental one of 19 feet on the south bank. After the
flood of 1829, it had fallen into such disrepair, that an iron truss
arch was substituted for the wooden, at the expense of the trustees
of the Stonehaven road. It is a singular but not a very commo-
dious structure, and harmonizes but indifferently with its fine situa-
tion. The bridge of Feugh is a strong plain erection, agreeing
tolerably well with its position. The material employed in these
and other buildings within the parish is chiefly granite.

                        III.-POPULATION.
	The average number of annual births from 1700 to 1712 was
53, and of marriages, 14; while the average of births from 1830
to 1840 was 50, and of marriages, 16. The population must
therefore have been, in 1700, about 2077.


