
                                 KELTON.                             157

Raeberry was beheaded in 1451. The stone in question is easily
accounted for, when it is stated that the clan of the Maclellans
became so numerous and respectable, that fourteen knights of the
name are said to have existed in Galloway at one time, and that
the ruins of d castle which belonged to a branch of the family are
still to be seen within three miles of Kirkcormock. The family
are considered to have been of Irish origin, and were probably in
strumental in erecting this church. Their castle appears to have
been a place of considerable importance. The ruins are exten-
sive, and some of the vaults are yet entire, and are used as sheds
for cattle, It was situated on the farm of Auchlane, to which it
has transmitted its own name. It was surrounded with a wide and
deep ditch, which was supplied with water from the burn that now
flows past the north side of the ruins.
	There are several beautiful moats in the parish.
	Mons Meg.--Although this parish is forced to relinquish the
honour of having furnished Raeberrv with a grave, it seems to have
a good claim to the honour of having contributed the means of de-
molishing the castle of his murderer. When the act of forfeiture
against the Douglasses was passed by the Scottish P`rliament in
the year 1455, the Castle of Thrieve was the last stronghold that
held out for that powerful and rebellious family. King James II.
resolved to conduct the siege of this place in person. He there-
fore marched into Galloway at the head of a numerous army, and
took up a position at "the Three Thorns of the Carlinwark,"*
near the place where the town of Castle Douglas now stands.
Among the multifarious assemblage who came from all parts of
the country to witness the warlike operations, there was a black-
smith of the name of M'Kim, or M'Min, and his sons. Observ-
ing that the royal artillery produced little effect upon the thick
and strong walls of Thrieve, old M'Kim remarked to one of the
officers, that a larger cannon should be procured; and, after ex-
amining the way in which the guns had been manufactured, he
offered, if furnished with the proper materials, to construct a
more efficient piece of ordnance. The king gladly accepted
his proposal; and the principal inhabitants of Kirkcudbright,
to avenge the death of their superior, the tutor of Bombie,
liberate the country from the tyranny of the Douglasses, and

<FOOTNOTE>
	 One of these thorns still remains--a knotty, gnarled, fluted, hoary, and interest-
ing relic of antiquity, which it is desirable that some means were employed to pre-
serve from the decay that has long since preyed upon the other two.


