
                               DRUMBLADE.                        307

is not favourable, one would think, to the promoting of active ha-
bits, and is a material drawback upon their education; however,
were it not for the trifle so gained at this part of the season, they
might, perhaps, from want of means, be deprived of it, to a still
greater extent.
   The principal crops raised in the parish are oats, viz. potato,
early Angus, and what are called sandy oats:-these last, which
are neither so late nor so tender as the potato, and produce, be-
sides, a greater bulk, it is said, of straw for fodder, and a good
mealing oat, seem now to be much in favour.  There is also the
Hopetoun oat, which, however, does not appear to have taken here,
though still sown partially; and bear or bigg, of which there is ge-
nerally a proportion after green crop, and a few parcels of wheat,
which it wants climate only to bring into more extensive culture.
   Prices of Provisions.-These are not high.  Fresh butter from
5d. to 6d. the imperial pound; eggs 3d. to 4 1/2d. a dozen; fowls
1s. 8d. to 2s. a pair; chickens 8d. to 10d.; beef and mutton 5d.
and 5 1/2d. a pound; veal seldom to be had either in the parish or
neighbourhood.
   Husbandry.-The ordinary husbandry pursued is the five and
seven-shift course, particularly the latter, being three grasses and
two white crops for the seven, and two grasses and one white
crop for the five,-which in dry land is found to answer very well,
while in wet or clay land, the third year's grass becomes inferior.
   Live-Stock.-This being very much a rearing district for cattle,
these fall particularly to be mentioned.  The breed is for the
most art Aberdeenshire, mixed with highland.  Some few of the
short-horned have lately been introduced.  As they have not yet
been long or extensively tried, they cannot be so decisively pro-
nounced upon.  They seem, however, to promise well, giving
greater strength of bone, which was much wanted, and shewing a
tendency to feed sooner.  The returns arising from cattle may not
be stated at less than from L.3000 to L.3500 annually within the
parish; and the amount arising from dairy an poultry produce
may be stated at something between L.1700 and L.2000.
   Improvements.-During the last thirty years, the improvements
that have taken place in reclaiming waste lands have been very con-
siderable, almost doubling, perhaps, in that time the whole cultiva-
tion, and, at all events, the produce of former years.  They have
been accomplished for the most part by draining and liming, car-
ried on chiefly by the occupiers themselves, and at an expense on


