
    158			ROXBURGHSHIRE.

	Fuel.-Almost the only fuel used is coal, which is 14 miles dis-
    tant, and brought from Northumberland. Though the peat, with
    the exception of that of Graden moss, is of a good quality, yet
    the mosses mentioned above are little dug. Coals can be procur-
    ed at nearly as cheap a rate as peat; the cost of the former, includ-
    ing carriage and all other expenses, being about 7d. per cwt.
		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the period of the last Statistical Account, the population,
    in consequence of agricultural improvements and the extension of
    cultivated land, has somewhat increased. The number of inhabited
    houses, which was then 55, is now 79. The number of ploughs,
    which was then 30, is now 50,-to each of which a pair of horses be-
    longs. The rent of the parish, which was formerly L. 2113, is now
    L. 5514, 6s. 8d.; that of the largest farm, which was formerly L. 400,
    is now nearly L. 800. The improved system of husbandry which
    has since that time been introduced, as well as the reclaiming of
    waste land, have thus obviously augmented the quantity of la-
    bour, and compensated for its anticipated diminution by the use of
    thrashing machines. Sources of industry have thus been multi-
    plied, and what was lost in one department has been gained in
    another, no less subservient to the welfare of the community.
    The much greater demand for stock of all descriptions than for-
    merly has prompted the farmers, for the purpose of rearing them,
    to subject to the agency of the plough much of their ground which
    they once deemed inadequate to remunerate them for the labour
    and expense of cultivation. Whether the general comfort and
    happiness of those who follow agricultural employments have also
    been advanced is doubtful. Their habits and intelligence, in no
    small degree, have kept pace with the spirit and improvements of
    the age. They are now better educated than formerly; books are
    more accessible to them, and not a few avail themselves of these
    sources of mental enjoyment. Still, their increased thirst of know-
    ledge creates wants, for the supply of which their scanty means
    are incompetent, and thus gives rise to discontentment and fretful-
    ness. A small augmentation of their wages would do much to improve
    their condition. To these sources, is to be traced that very ge-
    neral desire of emigration to Canada which of late years the class
    of hinds has manifested; and the children of those whom no
    worldly motive could have torn from their native hills and valleys,
    now, without a tear, nay, with a sort of exultation, leave the land
    of their fathers.
	December 1834.


