
36                         FORFARSHIRE.

which a less antiquated agency might perhaps succeed in re-
moving.

<TABLE>Receipts for last year:-
	                Passengers,           L. 3450  0  0
                          Cattle,                  750  0  0
                           Goods,                  756 12  0
                                                ____________
                                               L. 4956 12  0

        Fishings.-The fishings in this parish, before alluded to, belong
to four proprietors. Their yearly rents do not exceed L. 430.
        Horticulture.-In noticing other branches of our industry, we
must not omit the state of our horticulture. Dundee has been
long famous for its vegetables: so plentiful and cheap are they
that even the poorest of the people may easily obtain them, while
the rich have access to the finer and more expensive productions
of the garden, and even of the hot-house, on very reasonable
terms. There are about eighty acres occupied in the neighbour-
hood of the town in raising vegetables for the Dundee market;
but great quantities are brought from a distance also, so that the
supply ir good and ample. The average annual value of garden-
stuffs raised for sale within the parish does not exceed L. 2000.
	The neighbourhood of Dundee has long been distinguished for
its fruits. In August, September, and October, large quantities
are sold in the open market from the orchards and gardens in the
Carse of Gowrie, Strathmore, &c. and in some of the fruit-shops
the finest fruits are found in the best state of preservation almost
all the year round,-a circumstance for which the public is chiefly
indebted to one intelligent gardener. All that is wanting to com-
plete success in this trial is a fair share of that patronage to which
skill and enterprise are so justly entitled. The average annual va-
lue of fruit sold in Dundee is not less than L. 3000; there being
not more than one-twentieth part of the fruit raised in this parish.
	Of late years a considerable addition has been made to our nur-
sery grounds; one establishment alone occupies about fifteen acres,
and that was found sufficient for many years to supply the demand.
At present, however, there are three nurseries, occupying altoge-
ther about forty acres,-an extent of ground more than adequate to
supply all the plants requisite for the neighbourhood. Indeed
the home demand is much less than that from a distance. In 1826,
one house sent to a distance upwards of fhve and a-half millions of
young trees, and during the last ten years has furnished upwards of



