
     Statistical Account

ance varies according to circumstances. This small al-
lowance is granted only as an help to their industry, not as
an encouragement to sloth and idleness.  There is not one
beggar within the limits of these parishes*.

   Population.-According to Dr Webster's report, the
number of souls in 1775 was 774.  At present (1793) it
is 730; of whom, males 349, females 381.  Though no
manufacturers are carried on in these parishes, yet the num-
ber of tradesmen is considerable, including a few appren-
tices; there are 12 wrights, 9 masons, 7 smiths, 8 weavers,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Besides the pensioners on the roll, occasional supplies are granted to
other families, who by sickness and misfortunes are reduced to necessitous
circumstances.  A considerable number of house-rents are allowed, both
to the pensioners upon the roll, and for necessitous persons who are not,
and who do not receive any other supply.  When a window is left with 3
or 4 children, who can do nothing for themselves, she is allowed 15 s. or
16 s. the quarter.  When one or two of these children arrive at the age
of maturity, and can support themselves, bet pension is proportionally cur-
tailed.  When all of them arrive at this age, if the window can support
herself by her own labour, her name is struck from the roll.  The money
annually expended on the poor of these parishes amounts to L. 20 and up-
wards.  This sum is raised from the interest of a small fund, from weekly
collections at the church door, mortcloths, marriages, etc.  No assess-
ment hath been made for the poor of these parishes during the last 18
years, the period of the present incumbent's admission.  In 1782, indeed,
when the prices of all kinds of provisions were so exorbitantly high, that
many of the industrious poor were reduced to great straits, the heritors 
voluntarily assessed themselves in a small sum, and purchased oat-meal to
supply this useful set of men at the rate of 1 s. the peck.  This necessary
supply was intrusted to the management of the kirk-session.  No funds in
the island are more frugally or conscientiously managed than the poors
funds in Scotland.  The Constitution of England hath justly been held
up as the admiration and envy of surrounding nations; but in respect to
the provision for the poor, it may be asserted, that the Nobility and
Gentry in Scotland neither admire nor envy their rich neighbours in the 
South, as their poors are enormous.


