
     Statistical Account

graziers in this country.  When in the vigour of life, he
possessed uncommon spirit and activity, and carried on busi-
ness as a grazier and butcher to greater extent than any other
individual in East Lothian.  Of late, he has wisely contracted
his business to a smaller scale but still supplies the parish and
neighbourhood with every kind of butcher meat in the sea-
son, of the best quality; beef from 3 d. to 4 1/2 per lib. mut-
ton, veal, and lamb, in proportion.  He is now in the 84th
year of his age healthy and active, with still a " spark of
"youthful fire."  A woollen manufacture of striped varie-
gated cloth has been carried on in the village for some years
past, on a small scale.  The cloth sells from 4 s. 6 d. to 5 s.
6 d. per yard.  It is made of the best materials, is esteemed a
light, genteel, and comfortable dress, and is known in Edin-
burgh by the name of the Gilmerton Livery.  The demand
for it increases, the manufacturer has both spirit and stock to
carry it on to greater extent, but finds great difficulty in pro-
curing female hands to prepare the materials.  Accustomed
from their early years to work in the fields in weeding the
corn, hoeing, etc. they prefer what they call outwork in
summer to any domestic employment*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Though persons of distinguished characters are not produ-
ced in every age and in every soil, yet it is well known that this
parish has produced men of eminent abilities in different pro-
fessions of life.  Towards the end of the 16th, and beginning
of the 17th century, a great part of the lower lands of East
Lothian were possessed by the Hepburns, collateral branches of
the Earls of Bothwell.  A gentleman of that name was propri-
etor of the lands of Athelstaneford.  A second son of his went
into the Swedish service.  General Lesly, in passing through
this country at the head-of a company, on their way to embark
to join Gustavus Adolphus, then at the head of the Prorestant
League in Germany against the Emperor Ferdinand II saw
young Hepburn, and was struck with his appearance, (for he
was tall and handsome), and spoke to him in a manner that


