
                     ROW.                                 79

Sir James Colquhoun-who probably receives upwards of L. 1500
additional arising.from the feus in Helensburgh and the landward
part of the parish.
  There are no manufactures or public works in the parish, and
consequently a great want of employment for the,many individu-
als in Helensburgh, whose labours are but partially required in the
neigbbourbood. There are a few coasting and coal vessels, but
these are inconsiderable in number.
                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  The only town in the parish is Helensburgh, a rapidly increasi.-
ing watering place. It was founded by the first Sir James Col-
quhoun, and was named in honour of his wife Lady Helen Suther-
land. It was created a burgh of barony by charter in the year
1802, and has a provost, two bailies, and four councillors. It
has the privilege of holding a weekly market and four annual fairs.
There is a small and incommodious pier, principally used by the
steam-boats, of which several sail daily to Glasgow. There is also
a daily post from Dumbarton and Greenock. The turnpike road
from Dumbarton to Arrochar traverses the parish for about sixteen
fles. A new line of road from Helensburgh across the hill to
Luss and Balloch ferry, affords an easy communication with these
places.
  Ecclesiastical State.-Tbe greater part of this parish was at one
time included in the older parish of Roseneath, and an appendage
of the Abbey of Paisley. The remainder of it was an annexation
from the old parish of Cardross, which formerly stretched along
Glenfruin, and crossed at the top of the glen to the shore of the
upper part of Gareloch, and also to a part of the coast of Loch-
Long. Before the formation of this parish, the Presbytery of
Dumbarton, the General Assembly, and the Commissioners for
Planting of Kirks, took various plans into consideration from the
year 1639 and following years, for the purpose, not only of reme-
dying the inconveniences arising from the extent and anomalous
boundaries of Roseneath and Cardross, but also for making the
newparish of Row from a part of both. In 1643, Cardross received
lands from Roseneath towards the west as far as its present boundary,
and gave up in exchange Glenfruin and the lands on the shores
of Lochs Long and Gare. And in 1648 the boundaries of the new
parish of Row were finally settled, and a deed of erection for the
church was procured and immediately acted upon. In this year
also Mr Archibald M'Lean, the first minister, was translated to


