
                        SYMINGTON.                                           569

<TABLE>

Miscellaneous produce not enumerated under any of the foregoing heads, 100  0  0
Rearing of 92 swine,                                                    92  0  0

                    Total return from land,                      L. 10,080 15 0

                           V.-PAROCHICAL ECONOMY.
         Markets.-Kilmarnock, at the distance of five miles from the
village, is the nearest market-town.
         Means of Communication.-A penny post-office is established in
the village, where letters are received daily from Kilmarnock and
Ayr. The Glasgow and Portpatrick road runs through the whole
length of the parish, nearly four miles, on which run daily five
stage-coaches, the Glasgow and Portpatrick mail-coaches, besides a
great number of carriers' waggons, &c.
	Thorn is chiefly used for fences: but there is sometimes a mix-
ture of thorn, beech, and privets.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated near the cen-
tre of the parish, being about two miles distant from, its farthest
extremity. At what time it was built, is uncertain. It received an
addition in 1797, when the whole underwent a sufficient repair. It
can accommodate with ease 400 people. There are thirty or forty
free sittings in the church.
	The manse was built about the year 1786, and re-slated in 1838.
The stipend consists of 120 bolls of oatmeal, and 120 bolls of bar-
ley, Linlithgow measure, payable by the fiar prices of the county,
besides L. 22, 1s. in money, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
ments. The glebe contains about five imperial acres, and may be
worth about L. 15 per annum.
	There is a Dissenting meeting held once a fortnight in a gar-
ret room; but there are not above five or six Dissenting fami-
lies in the parish. Divine service is generally well attended by
all ranks of people. The number of communicants are about 240,
not including strangers who join in that ordinance.
	The church collections for the poor average about L. 26 a year.
         Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish,
where from seventy to eighty children are taught English gram-
mar, writing, arithmetic, Latin, Greek, French, &c. The salary
of the schoolmaster is L. 34, 5s. 10d. The school fees may ave-
rage about L. 40 a year. The schoolmaster has a dwelling-house,
school-room, and garden.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--About eight poor people receive
monthly 5s. each, besides having their house rents paid out of the
poor's fund. A considerable number also receive assistance, who


