
                        MIDMAR.                           633

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Aberdeen, which is about fifteen miles distant, is the nearest
market-town.  Thither our farmers drive all their grain and farm-
produce.  The corn-merchants attend the Aberdeen weekly mar-
kets to purchase graip, and when there is a brisk demand, they
send their agents through the country to buy for them, and allow
about 6d. for the boll or quarter.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1787.  It ac-
commodates about 600.  It is rather too near the south side of
the parish, and, by consequence, rather too far from the north,
especially during the winter time.  The sittings are free, the
area being divided among the heritors according to their valued
rents, for the accommodation of their tenantry, who are in gene-
ral very well provided for.  The average number of coinmunicants
is 470.  Public worship is well attended, and the congregation
make a very decent appearance on the Sabbath day.  The manse
is old, and it is not known when it was built.  It has undergone
several repairs within these twenty years, and it is very insufficient
at present. *  The glebe, including the stance of the manse, offices,
and garden, consists of 12 acres, 3 roods, 2 falls Scots measure.
It may be valued at L.25 yearly.  The stipend, as modified 13th and
27th February, commenced with crop 1829.  Meal, at eight
stone per boll, 49 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 peck, 3 8/10 lippies; bear, Lin-
lithgow measure, 3 bolls, 1 peck, 2 1/4 lippies; money Sterling,
L.186, 6s.
   Education.-In the parochial school, the branches of instruction
taught are, English grammar, writing, arithmetic, geography,
practical mathematics, and Latin.  The parochial teacher has
the legal accommodation, and the medium salary, and his school
fees may amount to about L.30 a-year; the session-clerk's salary
and other dues, such as marriage proclamation, &c. may amount
to about L.4.  The average number of scholars attending the
school annually may amount to 70.  There are one or two Sab-
bath schools in the parish. +
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are 17 or 18 on the poor's
list.  Our Sabbath collections amount to about L.30 annuall,
exclusive of the public collections for the Aberdeen Infirmary, and
collections for Highland Schools and,Foreign Missionaries, &c.
There were L.200 belonging to the poor, which had been de-

<FOOTNOTE>A new manse was built in 1840, nearly on the site of the old.
          There is now a large and select parish library, which is much resorted to.


