
6                    PEEBLES-SHIRE.

ed for their peaceful habits,--in seasons of danger and alarm
they rivalled their border brethren of Selkirk and Roxburgh-
shires in patriotic devotedness to the service of their country.
When the war broke out after the treaty of Amiens, and the country.
try was threatened with foreign invasion, an additional levy of vo-
lunteers and yeomanrv was ordered, and the loyal inhabitants of
Peebles, considering the exigencies of the times, mustered no less
than 682 effective officers and men as an infantry corps, and two
troops of cavalry, making a total of 820 soldiers,--besides furnish,
ing their quota to the militia.  This force, out of a population of
8800, exceeded the muster made by any other county in Scot-
land, according to the number of its inhabitants; and in that spirit-
stirring period, a finer body of men could not be found in Britain,
nor one more prepared to repel foreign invasion, or " nobly die
the second glorious part," than the hardy and patriotic sons of
Tweeddalle.   In Pennecuik's time the number of minilitia was 266
foot, and 29 horse.
   Ecclesiastical History.--At what period, Peebles was added to
the diocese of Glascrow, it is difficult to ascertain.  That it had
belonged to it previous to the inquisitio of David in 1116, we have
already seen.  When that prince refounded the see of Glasgow, he
seems to have conferred on the bishops of Glascrow the whole of
the ecclesiastical rights, while he retained the demesne of Peebles.
   The church of St Andrew, for many ages the parish church,
seems to have been built on the ruins of the old one in the year
1195, as it was consecrated by Bisbop Joceline, who, in 1174,
succeeded Ingelram, already mentioned.  In 1260, the Conventual
Church of the Holy Cross was built by Alexander III. in honour of
St. Nicholaus, who was supposed to have suffered martyrdom in the
third century.  This church of the Holy Cross was one of the four in
Scotland called ministries, and their governor was styled minister. (+)
It was founded for Red or Trinity friars, seventy in number; and
was richly endowed, not only by its royal founder, but by many
princely donations, particularly from the noble and powerful fa-
mily of Frazer, who, during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries,
possessed a great part of Tweeddale.     The strath of the Tweed,
from its source to the brook which forms the eastern boundary of

<FOOTNOTE>For a full account of the erection and endowment of this Church, the reader is
reffered to the original record found in St. John's College, Caimbrigde, and inserted
in Pennecuik's Description of Tweeddale, p.33
     Connell on Tithes.




