
	1228			PERTHSHIRE.

	Prince Charles.  He was a man of, property near Callander.  This
	castle became at that time the actual scene of a romantic escape
	made by John Home, the author of Douglas, and some other pri-
	soners, who, having been taken at the battle of Falkirk, were con-
	fined there by the insurgents.  The poet, who had in his own
	mind a large stock of that romantic and enthusiastic spirit of ad-
	venture which he has described as animating the youthful hero of
	his drama, devised and undertook the perilous enterprise of escap-
	ing from his prison.  He inspired big companions with his senti-
	ments, and when every attempt at open force was deemed hope-
	less, they resolved to twist their bedclothes into ropes, and thus
	to descend.  Four persons with Home himself, reached the ground
	in safety; but the rope broke with the fifth, who was a tall lusty
	man.  The sixth was Thomas Barrow, a brave young  English-
	man, a particular friend of Home's.  Determined to take the risk,
	even in such unfavourable circumstances, Barrow committed him-
	self to the broken rope, slid down on it as far as it could assist him,
	and then let himself drop.  His friends beneath succeeded in
	breaking his fall ; nevertheless, he dislocated his ankle, and had
	several of his ribs broken.  His companions, however, were able
	to bear him off in safety.  The Highlanders next morning sought
	for their prisoners with great activity.  An old gentleman told the
	author he remembered seeing the commander, Stewart,
        	" Bloody with spurring, fiery red with haste,
	riding furiously through the country in quest of the fugitives."
	   Doune Castle stands on a round hill or mound.  It is a mas-
	sive edifice with a spacious square tower 80 feet in height, at
	bne end of the front, and another, but smaller, behind the oppo-
	site extremity, nearly 40 feet in height, forming the whole into
	an ample quadrangle.   It is uncertain when it was erected,
	though the tradition is, that part of it was built by Murdock, one
	bf the Dukes of Albany, two of whom occupied it successively as
	an occasional residence.  It was frequently occupied, in the six-
	teeth century, by Margaret, daugther of Henry VII. and widow
	of James IV.  Macgregor of Glengyle held it in 1745, when
	John Home was confined in it   It has long been the property
	of the Earl of Moray, and gives the title to his eldest son.  This
	estensive buhlding overhangs a steep and narrow green bank, being
	romantically situated on a peninsula at the conflux of Teith and
	Ardoch, its lofty tower rising far above the surrounding trees, and
					3


