
42                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

searches of the botanist.  Its mountain ranges furnish almost the
whole family of the ferns, the mosses, the lichens, and the gnapha-
liums.  Most of those plants which court the moist shade flourish
in rich luxuriance, in its rocky cliffs and deep ravines. On our moor
pastures may be found the Gentiana campestris, the Empetrumni-
grum, and the common juniper. In the woods, we have the Convalla-
ria majalis, and in great abundance the Asperula odorata.  The
Adoxa moschatellina has secured its residence among the shady
moist rocks, and in the marshes, the Myrica gale.  Hardwood of
every description grows well in the lower part of the parish.  Larch
and spruces thrive in the plantations, though there are none of a
very great age, all having been planted, it is believed, by the late
Mr Speirs.  The rarer and more recently introduced trees thrive
well; for instance, Abies Douglasia, A. Menzezia, Pinus Lariceo
Corsica, P. Sabina, P. Deodarus, P, excelsa.  The first plant-
ed in 1834 is 20 feet high.
                    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Secluded from social intercourse with the inhabitants of the
surrounding district; shut up in a narrow yet pleasant valley, on
every side, by hills, which, till within the last fifty years, rendered
it almost inaccessible, the inhabitants of Fintry formed a little
community by themselves.  They were content to	follow the oc-
cupations of their fathers, regardless of the changes and improve-
ments taking place in other parts of the country.  Father and son,
through many successive generations, occupied the same farms, or
inhabited the same cottages; and, if they did not retrograde in their
circumstances and comforts, they were abundantly satisfied.  There
are instances of families occupying the same farms for several cen-
turies.  In such a primitive and simple mode of life, there is little
worthy of recording.  The same mode of farming and grazing, till
lately, was universally observed.  Yet Fintry is not without its ho-
nours.  It gives a Baron's title to the principal proprietor of the pa-
rish; and there are still the remains of an old castle, which had evi-
dently been a place of great strength, with its fosse and mound.  It
was the residence of the Grahams of Fintry in other times.  It stood
on the south side of the Fintry Hill, in full view of Sir John de Gra-
ham's Castle, in the parish of St Ninians, with which, no doubt, in
less happy times, intercourse was kept up by signal.  Sir John de
Graham's Castle was burnt down by Edward I. after the battle of
Falkirk. Both these castles have long been in ruins; and many of
the stones have been removed, for the purposes of building dikes and


