
                          DUNLOP.                               299

and perhaps nowhere is the stock more select. Some persons, en-
ticed by the high prices given for fine animals, have been too much
in the habit of selling the best of their young stock, but the prac-
tice is far from being common. Clydesdale horses, mostly of a
light description, are generally used. They are almost all bought
in, very few being reared. The few sheep that are kept are of the
Leicester breed. The quantity of stock in the summer of 1835,
after very minute inquiry, was found to be as follows: 178 horses,
including 20 young horses; 910 milch cows; 111 cows or oxen
fattening; 415 young cattle of different ages; 109 sheep; 258
pigs.
	Husbandry.--Oats is the grain chiefly cultivated. Almost every
farmer raises barley or bear for the use of his own family, but
little, if any, for sale. A few acres of wheat have for some time
past been sown every year, but the success of the experiment has
not been so great as to cause the cultivation of it to extend much.
The land being in most places retentive of moisture, turnips are
not grown to any great extent; and the quantity of potatoes rais-
ed, except on a few farms, is not much greater than is necessary
for home consumption.
	The mode of cropping followed in this parish, does not coincide
with any of the rotations now recommended by writers on agricul-
ture. When lea is broken up, three crops of oats in succession are
generally taken from it. With the last crop, rye-grass is sown,
most frequently without clover. The rye-grass is often allowed to
ripen its seed, for the purpose of being, threshed, and is thus near-
ly as scourging to the land as an additional corn crop. The ground
is then allowed to lie in pasture for at least four or five, and some-
times even for ten or twelve years, when the same course of crop-
ping is again repeated. Potatoes and turnips, so far as the cul-
tivation of them extends, take the place of the second crop of
oats, and on a part of the ground which has borne potatoes, the
wheat and barley that are raised, are sown. In some instances,
only two crops of oats are taken, and this practice is gradually ex-
tending. In these cases, a small field is sometimes set apart for rais-
ing potatoes, turnips, barley, &c. which do not come into the ordi-
nary rotation of the farm. This system of management, it may be
thought, must tend greatly to impoverish the soil; but, owing part-
ly to its natural fertility, and partly to the pains taken to keep it in
good heart, by liming and top-dressing, it is not found to suffer from
it. It is a very common practice to top dress the ground with dung,


