
                                      DUNBARNY.                       803

         was born in this parish in 1754, and buried at the old churchyard
         of Dunbarny, in 1834.
            John Grant, Esq. who purchased Kilgraston in the year 1784.
         He was several years a Member of the Assembly and an Assist-
         ant Judge of the Supreme Court, in the Island of Jamaica, where
         he obtained the office of Chief Justice. He died at Edinburgh,
         the 29th of March 1793, and was interred in the West Church
         burying-ground, Edinburgh. He was connected with this parish
         only by the purchase of property.
            Mr John Bonar, minister of Torphichen. The session register
         bears, that he was born on the 16th January 1671, and baptized
         on the 18th January, by Mr John Wemyss, minister of Dunbarny.
         He presided over the spiritual welfare of the inhabitants of Tor-
         phichen from 1693 to 1747. He had the honour of being the
         last of the twelve "marrow men" to whom the twelve queries
         were sent by the Commission of the General Assembly of 1721;
         but, after the answers were returned to the transmitted queries by
         the eleven others, he was seized with indisposition, and unable to
         give his personal attendance. He was well known as a zealous
         and godly minister. Mr George Whitfield commands him for
         his ardent zeal in the cause of Christ. He published a sermon
         in 1719; and afterwards a large and interesting letter to a society
         of young men in Edinburgh, on prayer meeting. *

         <FOOTNOTE>He was father of the Rev. Mr Bonar of Fetlar, grandfather of Mr Bonar of
         Perth, great-grandfather of the eloquent and heavenly-minded Mr Archibald Bonar,
         who was successively minister in Glasgow, Newburn, and Cramond, and the author
         of two volumes of sermons; the great-great-grandfather of the Bonars ministers in
         Larbert, Greenock, Kelso, and Collace. The family from which from which Mr Bonar sprung
         were portioners or small heritors in the parish of Dunbarny.
            In a statement of the families who possessed the lands of Kilgraston in 1625, which
         we have seen, the following notice occurs:-" Johannes Bonnar, portionarius de
         Kilgriston, haeres Euphemiae Bonar, matris. " About the year 1658, one of the Bo-
         nars, who is described as being an heritor in this parish, is represented as applying
         in that capacity for a seat in the church. This family are mentioned in a charter of
         James V. extending as far back as 1540. Not one individual of that name now re-
         sides in this quarter.
            Old Families.-The following notices of some of the families among whom the
         property of Dunbarny parish was once parcelled, may be interesting to the curious
         reader:-
            1. Oliphant (Lord Laurence) was a very extensive proprietor in Strathearn. To
         him belonged " the lands and barony of Aberdgalie and Duppline, with the mills,
         fishings, and advocatione of the churches, lands, and barony of Gask, dimidietate ter-
         rarum de Dunberny, 2 quarterus terrarum de Pitcaithlie, quarts parte terrarum de
         Dunbarny parish he was infeft 14th June 1604.
            2. Oliphant,(Laurence of Pitcaithly, for several years treasurer to the kirk-ses-
         sion of Dunbarny,) succeeded his father of the same name and title, and was infeft
         in the " quarter of the towne and lands of Pitcaithlie, called Stewart's quarter, with-
         in the parochie of Dunbarny, 1654." His son succeeded him in 1693.


