
			INVERKEILOR.                        241

to Walter de Berkley, in the reign of William the Lion, who was
therefore called the Lord of Redcastle.
   About a mile north-east from Ethie House, the seat of the
Earl of Northesk and near the sea, stand the remains of a church
with an enclosed burying-ground around it. It is called St Mur-
doch's chapel. A considerable part of the walls is still standing.
It is said to have been a parish church. Ethie House was built
by Cardinal Beaton, and was his residence. At a place called
Chapelton, nearly three miles west from the church, there are the
remains of a chapelry of Quytefield, now the burying-ground of the
family of Boysack.
   Modern Buildings.--There are five spinning mills in the parish
driven by water, and partly by steam. They manufacture flax
brought from the Baltic at a cheaper rate than it can be grown in
this country. Their hours of working are regulated by the late act
of Parliament.
			III.--POPULATION.
   In Dr Webster's report, the amount of the population is 1286:
but it has since increased, as agricultural improvements advanced;
for at the period of the former Statistical Account, the number
was 1747, and in the year 1821 it was 1785. But the amount by
the census of 1831 is only 1655, showing a decrease of 130. The
accidental absence of a few families may account for the diminu-
tion in part, but the principal cause appears to be the tendency in
all agricultural populations to fall off, in consequence of agricul-
tural improvements. Besides, the old lint-mills on the Lunan,
which formerly gave employment to numbers, are now very little
employed. Nor does spinning with the hand or weaving af-
ford sufficient encouragement to the many who are thrown upon
that resource, to continue in the country, at a distance from the
advantages they have in a town. Of late, too, it has become cus-
tornary, as a precaution against pauperism, to take down every
house not necessary for carrying on the operations of the farm.
The village of Inverkeilor contains 30 families in separate houses.
   As far as can be judged from the register, the yearly average
for the three preceding years is of births, 45,--of mortcloths, 34,
but there may be ten or twelve of these used at funerals from other
parishes,--and of proclamations for marriage, 20; but when the
parties belong to different parishes, proclamation is made in
both.


