
                                    KELLS.                                    109

a landscape rarely surpassed.  The scenery around Glenlee Park
is also most striking and romantic, every where fringed with natur-
ral copsewood, and studded with oak trees, amongst the finest in
the south-west of Scotland.  There is in the immediate vicinity
of the mansion-house a rocky and beautifully wooded glen, con-
taining two waterfalls of considerable extent.
   The face of the parish is hilly and unequal.  Along the banks
of the Ken, there is a considerable extent of arable and meadow land,
interspersed with copsewood; but on leaving the river, the surface
gradually rises into a range of magnificent mountains, of the height
of about 2700 feet.
   Climate, &c. --The climate is exceedingly moist, but mild and
healthy.  From a rain-gauge kept at Kenmure Castle, the, annual
quantity of rain appears much to exceed the average of the east-
ern parts of Scotland.

<TABLE>
     There fell in 1832,            56 inches,      616ths                               1833,    -       59      -         2
                   1834,            54               12
                   1835,            59               12
                   1836,            72               12
                   1837,            52                4
                   1838,            68                0
           Average of seven years, 59 inches .

   The extreme humidity, however, does not appear to be injuri-
ous to health or longevity.  Epidemic diseases are of rare occur-
rence, and the inhabitants robust.  The prevailing winds are the
west and south-west; but, especially in the months of March,
April and May, there are frequently long tracts of east wind.
Here, however, as in other parts of Galloway, its severity is much
tempered.  Considering the inland situation of the parish, the
seasons are generally early.  Harvest, on an average, may com-
mence the latter end of August.  When attention is paid, the com-
mon garden vegetables, such as peas, potatoes, &c. are generally fit
for use in the second week of June, and in favourable springs even
sooner.  The gooseberry, strawberry, raspberry, plum and cherry
thrive and bear luxuriantly.  The pear and apple do not succeed
so well: except the coarser kinds, they are apt, unless in favour-
able situations, to. canker.  The fuschia and myrtle, with a little
protection, stand the winter tolerably well; and the Noisette rose,
without any covering, was uninjured by the severe frost of January
and February 1838.
    Hydrography.--The principal stream connected with the parish
is the river Ken, which forms its eastern boundary.  It has its rise
in the east of Carsfairn, or confines of Dumfries-shire. Upon


