
     of Hutton and Corrie.

   The white-faced sheep, however, are rather on the in-
crease.  The management of one farmer, may not be
thought impertinent.  Mr Graham of Shaw in the year
1776, had his farms stocked with short sheep.  About this
time, the improvements in sheep by Mr Bakewell were
much spoken of.  The late Earl of Hopetoun so known in
rural ceconomics, thought the Annandale sheep might be
improved by Bakewell's breed.  He bought rams, and 
some of the tenants thought they paid a compliment to his
Lordship, by giving a few of their ewes to try the cross
breed.  It is said the Nambs got the run of the slock, and
did not thrive.  This is likely; the hills of Annandale
head are steep and high and the prejudice of the farmers
against so striking an alteration in the appearance of their
sheep was great.  Mr Graham was the only farmer who
persevered in changing his breed; without getting one
white-faced ewe, he had a white-faced stock in a few years,
by putting out the lambs which went most to the face and
wool of his former sheep.  An unlucky circumstance was
like to have destroyed his whole stock; and to his loss,
add the mortification of his neighbours supporting, that it
was the reward of his temerity in adopting English sheep.
He had sent a few of his tup-lambs to be wintered near the
sea-coast, in the view of their returning stronger, than if
wintered on his own farms.  They brought home, undis-
covered, the scab.  The whole stock was seized.  Every
remedy, then known, was applied for 4 years without ef-
fect; and the farmer was on the eve of despair of ever re-
covering them, after having lost many hundred pounds by
the disease.  The prescription, published for this disorder
by Sir Joseph Banks, was observed in the newspaper, and
immediately applied, which had the effect to clear the
stock totally in a few months*.  This was only 3 years

<FOOTNOTE>

*This prescription was:-Take 1 Lb. quicksilver, 2 lbs. hog-iard, 1/2 Lb.
Venice turpentine, 1/2 lb. oil or spirit of temperature.  The whole to be


