
	              EVIE AND RENDALL.                     201

    The Hall of Rendalt is at present possessed by, Mr John Hal-
cro, whose small remaining property has escaped the waste of eight
centuries.
    Land-owners.-The principal landed proprietors at this time
are, William Traill, Esq. of Woodwick; John Balfour, Esq.; and
William Gordon, Esq.
    Parochial Registers.-Tbe parochial registers of Rendall were
lost in consequence of the house, where they were kept, having
been burnt. There is one old volume of the Evie registers extant,
but it is quite in tatters. - It contains minutes of session from Au-
gust 1725 to January 1759; also registers of births and marriages
from 1725 to 1802. There is a new volume for the united pa-
rishes, in which are recorddd baptisms from 1802, marriages from
1814, deaths from .1816, to this date; and since May 1860, the
minutes of session have also been regularly kept.
    Antiquities.-Under the head of antiquities, may be mentioned
those circular ruins commonly, though perhaps erroneously, called
Picts houses. There are no less than nine of them, of different
sizes and at irregular distances, planted along the shores of Evie and
Rendall. What was the precise nature of these buildings, it is difficult
to conjecture. That they were at one period inhabited, seems pro-
bable, from the quantity of shells still found around them. There
are also a number of tumuli in Evie, some of which were opened
in 1818 by the son of a former minister of the parish., They
were all found to contain a square open space, formed by four flat
stones, having one at the bottom and another on the top. These
holes were from one foot to two feet square, and about 18 inches
deep. In the bottom of each, were invariably found a quantity of
ashes, charcoal of wood, and small fragments of burnt bones.
In the summer of 1832, when taking down a small old farm-
house at Cottascarth in Rendall, to rebuild it, there fell from a
hole in the wall 150 pieces of silver coins, which hid been wrap-
ped up in part of a meal sieve, overlaid with a bit of coarse wool.

presents sball come, be it known, that the bearer hereof, Margaret Halcro, lawful
daughter of the deceased Hugh Halcro, in the Isle of Weir,. and Margaret Stewart,
his spouse, bath lived in the parish of Evie from her infancy, in good fame and re-
port; is a discreet, godly young woman, and to our certain knowledge free of all
scandal, reproach, or blame. As also, that she is descended ofter father of the house
of Halcro, which is a very ancient and honourable family. in the Orkneys; the No.
ble and potent Earl of early and Lairds of Dun in Angus ; and by her mother, of
the Laird of Barwobe in Gilloway. In witness whereof, we, the mini-tar and clerk,
have subscribed, &c.


