
	                 ISLAND OF SKYE-SNIZORT.		       289

	of the lymphatic system, and rheumatism. Fevers, and other
	diseases, occasioned by the want of cleanliness, are also frequent.
	   Hydrography.-The only arm of the sea which intersects the
	parish is Loch Snizort. It is nine or ten miles long, running in a
	direction nearly south-east, and narrow and shallow. Springs
	are abundant, and their waters are of an excellent quality, clear,
	light, and salubrious. The rivers, of which there are seven, hav-
	ing not far to descend to the sea, are necessarily small, and their
	rocky channels are often nearly dry; but in rainy weather, when
	swelled by the mountain torrents, they flow with great impetuosity.
	   There is on the east side of this parish a beautiful fall of water,
	the perpendicular height of which may be about 90 feet. The
	most remarkable circumstance regarding this fall is, that, nearly
	opposite to the middle of it, there is an overarched path across the
	rock, along which five or six persons may walk abreast with the
	greatest safety. The traveller when he gains this position sees
	the body of water roll over, and might take it for a pillar of
	smoke, did he not see it dash on the rocks below.

			             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	   Eminent Characters.-The most remarkable character connect-
	ed with this parish is Flora Macdonald, a name which will ever be
	recorded as an ornament to her sex, for the fortitude and. heroism
	which she displayed in favouring the escape of Prince Charles
	Stuart, after the memorable battle of Culloden. She was the
	daughter of Macdonald of Milton, in South Uist, of which island
	she was a native.
	   Land-owners.-There are five land-owners in the parish; the
	principal one is Lord Macdonald.
	   Antiquities.-On the farm of Peinduin, on a rock near the
	shore, may be seen the remains of a castle, which, it would appear,
	had never been wholly finished. This castle was built a little af-
	ter the middle of the sixteenth century, by a bold and powerful
	character named Huistean Mac Ghilleaspuig Chl‚irich, (id est)
	Hugh, son of Archibald, the clerk. He was called Cl‚ireach or
	clerk, on account of his being able to write, which was a rare ac-
	complishment at that time. Although Huistean was nearly relat-
	ed to the Macdonald family, he never was on good terms with
	them. Confiding much in his own strength and military prowess,
	he entertained the bold design of cutting off his chief, and of seiz-
	ing by force upon his estate. With this view he commenced the
	building of the stronghold already mentioned, and not supplying



