
         		DALRYMPLE.                         283

seasons grows best on fallow land, and when sown about the mid-
dle of autumn. The kinds mostly used are the white, red, creep-
ing and spring wheat. Oats are sown on every kind of soil capable
of cultivation; they grow best, however, on the clay and loam. A
great variety are sown, among which may be mentioned the com-
mon, the potato, the red, the gray, and the early and late Angus-
shire. Barley, bear, potatoes, turnips, beans, pease, carrots, beet,
cabbages, flax, &c. are grown mostly for family use. The following
are the general rotations of crops: first year or lea crop, oats; second
year, green crop of potatoes, turnips, beans or pease; third, wheat,
oats, barley, or any white crop, and sow down with rye-grass,
white, red, and yellow clover. Another system is, 1. oats; 2. fal-
low; 3. wheat or any white crop, and sown down with rye-grass, &c.
Another, 1. oats; 2. fallow; 3. wheat or oats; 4. beans or pease,
and sow down; or 5. a white crop and sow down. Another, 1. oats,
with manure on the surface, previous to ploughing; 2. oats and sow
down.  Another, manure the surface; take three white crops in
succession, and sow down.
	The general method of fallowing land in this parish is to plough
it as lightly as possible, early in winter; to cross plough it with a
deep furrow in May or June, and to give two ploughings more, in
the course of the summer. These, with the necessary harrowing,
draining, rolling, manuring, &c. make it ready for the seed, which
is usually sown in September or October.
	Rate of Wages.--Farm-servants get from L. 10 to L. 16 per an-
num, besides a free house and garden, two pecks of oatmeal, and
two of potatoes a-week, and their coals led; women get from
L. 5 to L. 8, with board and lodging; labourers from 1s. to 1s. 6d.
with, and from 1s. 6d. to 2s. without victuals; cartwrights, from
1s. 6d. to 1s. 9d. with victuals. Blacksmiths either charge a cer-
tain sum for each piece of work, or agree with the farmers at so
much a-year.
	Cheese.--There are, at an average, about 3600 stones of sweet
milk cheese annually made in the parish; of which a great part are
sold to retail-dealers, the rest to families in Ayr, Maybole, and
throughout the neighbourhood, and part kept for home consump-
tion. What is sold to the families is generally coloured, and, for
the most part, shaped like the Cheshire and Stilton cheeses. The
average price per stone for the last eight years was 8s. 6d.
	Amount of raw produce.--The average amount of raw produce,
raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:


