
			    LOCHLEE.                            193

	Zoology.--The foxes in the parish have been very destructive
to lambs; but by hunting, and other means used for their de-
struction, their number has of late been greatly diminished. Many
badgers and wild cats are found among the rocks and cairns; but
they seldom do hurt to the sheep. Foxes and wild cats destroy a
great number of grouse, which in a favourable season are plenti-
ful on the moors. The Alpine hare abounds on the hills; and
deer and roebucks traverse the glens. The high inaccessible rocks
are frequented by large eagles and hawks. There are a few com-
mon hares and partridges on the low grounds. Vipers or adders,
some of very large size, are numerous in the parish; and lizards
abound in all the moors. Wild geese and swans visit the loch
sometimes in winter.
	The breed of cattle, sheep, and horses is the same as in the low
country; but the cattle never attain to the same weight. A small
flying insect during the evenings nf August and September is
very troublesome to the people from its bite; but the least breath
of wind makes it disappear.
	Botany.--An immense quantity of bog-myrtle abounds in the
marshy ground; and foxglove and other plants of various kinds
are found on the hills and in the valleys.
	There are several acres of natural birch wood of the very best
kind growing on the sides of the hills; there are also a few ash-
trees, mountain-ash, alders, or Scotch mahogany. Several of the
hills are well adapted for Scotch fir; and larches in particular,
though at present there are no plantations of these in the parish,
would thrive remarkably well, if the sheep were kept from hurting
them.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men.--It may be worth while to record, that Alexan-
der Ross, A.M. parobhial schoolmaster, and author of the For-
tunate Shepherdess, a pastoral poem of considerable merit, was
interred in this parish. He died forty-eight years ago, at the ad-
vanced age of eighty-four.
	Land-owner.--The Right Honourable Lord Panmure is sole
proprietor of the parish.
	Parochial Register.--The parish register of births extends as
far back as the year 1730. This parish was disjoined from
Lethnot, and erected into a separate charge in 1723. Parochial
registers of marriages, baptisms, and burials are now regularly


