
12                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

rish of Larbert. Some parts of it remain, and are now used as a
road. At the time of cutting the Forth and Clyde Canal, which
is at no great distance, a Roman granary or cell was discovered,
which contained a considerable quantity of wheat of a_ blackish
colour. Portions of this wheat are in the possession of different
individuals in the neighbourbood.
   The old tower or keep of the Castle of Castlecary is still in
tolerable repair, and is inhabited by the Earl of Zetland's forester,
The other parts of the building are in ruins. It is a very ancient
structure, and the tradition is, that it was built in the time of the
Romans.
   In the course of the excavations at Grangemouth, two verte-
brae of a whale were discovered imbedded in the clay. Lately, when
digging clay at the Earl of Zetland's brickfield, about three miles
from the sea, a similar relic was found, eighteen inches below the
surface. It measured a foot in length, by nine inches in diameter.
In April 1840, the trunk of a tree in a petrified state was found
in the centre of the railway tunnel at Falkirk, 129 feet from the
surface. It is about five feet in circumference. Several other or-
ganic remains have been found there.
   Mansion-Houses.-- Among these, Callendar House, the seat of
William Forbes, Esq. undoubtedly holds the first place. It is in
the fashion of the olden time, being remarkable for length rather
than width,--of great thickness in the walls, and adorded with tur-
rets of an antique form. It must have been built several cen-
turies ago, but was in part modernized by the late proprietor.
Viewed from the highway, it has a magnificent appearance. The
situation, however, is low, and hence the prospect is limited. It is
well sheltered in a park containing 400 Scotch acres, of which
250 are covered with coppice-wood, mostly oak, upon ground rising,
gently to the south. The lawn is ornamented with trees of great
size, and supposed to be 200 years old having been planted by
the Earl of Callendar on his return from the exile into which he
had gone with, Charles II. Withiia the wood there is a mausoleum
erected by the late Mr Forbes, in which his remains are deposited.
It is of a circular form, ornamented with Doric columns. Over the
door there is a Greek inscription, which has been translated thus:
           	 "All things we mortal call our own
          	 Are mortal too and quickly flown;
                 But could they all for ever stay,
                 We soon from them must pass away!"
   Kerse House, the seat of the Earl of Zetland, is pleasantly si-


