
  110                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

  sessed by Seaforth Lord Kintail, who took the Castle of Strome
  in 1609, as recorded in the last Statistical Account.
     Not farther back than the middle of last century, the inhabitants
  of this district were involved in the most dissolute barbarity. There-
  cords of presbytery, which commence in 1724, are stained with an
  account of black and bloody crimes, exhibiting a picture of wildness,
  ferocity, and gross indulgence, consistent only with a state of sava-
  gism.  The people, under the influence of no religion, but, from
  political considerations, attached to Episcopacy, conceived a rooted
  dislike to the Presbyterian system, which all the prudence of the
  clergy was for some time unable to eradicate.  In March 1725,
  we find the presbytery of Gairloch (now presbytery of Lochcarron)
  obliged to hold a meeting at Kilmorack; as the presbytery, to
  use the language of the record, had no access to meet in their own
  bounds, since they bad been rabbled at Lochalsh on 16th September
  1724, that being the day appointed for a parochial visitation there.
  From a petition which Mr Sage (the first Presbyterian minister of
  Lochcarron, settled in 1726,) presents to the presbytery in 1731,
  praying for an act of transportability,-we see that he considered
  his life often in danger; that only one family attended regularly on
  his ministry; and that he despaired of being of any service in the
  place. Mr Sage laboured in the place for forty-seven years.  By
  his prudent conduct, he gradually conciliated the affections of the
  people, and mitigated the rancour of their prejudices, and was in-
  strumental in bringing them to a state of comparative civilization.
    Eminent Men.-About the time that Mr Sage was settled in
  the parish, flourished William and Alexander Mackenzie, brothers,
  the authors of some popular Gaelic poems.  Such of the effusions
  of William as have escaped the ravages of time exhibit the dijecta
  membra poetae, and serve to excite our regret that so much has
  been lost.  His elegy on his brother's death, in tenderness of sen-
  timent and felicity of expression, will not shrink from a compari-
  son with some of the most successful efforts of the cultivated muse.
    Antiquities.-We have no monuments of antiquity to interest
  the antiquarian.  The ruins of Strome Castle still remain ; and
  on the rising ground behind Janetown, and at Langanduin in Kis-
  horn, we have one of those circular buildings or duin so frequent
  on the west coast.

                              III.-POPULATION.
    The increase of population may be principally attributed to the
  division of land into lots.  The village of Janetown, which at no


