
188                          DUMBARTONSHIRE.

committed to their keeping, but also over the whole country around.
The first of these posts upon the east side stands upon the top
of the Barr-hill, a situation so elevated as to command a view of
almost the whole length of the wall from east to west; or over a
space of county, upwards of thirty-two miles from sea to sea.
The fort is a square area of 150 yards. About the time the last
statistical report of the parish was written, some vaults belonging to
it were discovered. They were all entire, covered above with flat
bricks, and floored with a mixture of lime, and black and white
gravel, with sand, as if from the sea-shore, very unlike any that
is now to be found in this neighbourbood. The next of these
forts, proceeding westward, is situated three miles distant, at the
village of Aucbendowie. It is of an oblong rectangular figure, ex-
tending 150 yards one way, and 70 another. This fort is now
sadly mutilated and can scarcely be traced. The Forth  and
Clyde Canal is cut through it. Two miles onward in the same
direction is the fort or peel as it is called by way of distinction.
It is situated on a piece of rising ground at the west end of the
town of Kirkintilloch. The ditches and forms of the fortifications
are still pretty distinct, except on the west side, where they have
been lately levelled and turned into a kail-yard. The fort is of
an oblong rectangular form, 90 yards in length, and 80 in breadth.
It is singular in being situated on the north side of the wall, where-
as all the other forts stand upon the south side. From the his-
tory of the place subsequent to the time of the Romans, there is
more than ground for suspicion that this was one of the strong-
holds of the Comyns, during the time of the disturbances with the
English. Certainly the traces of the remains of the fortifications
are much fresher here than at any of the neigbbouring stations';
and the reason probably is that they are newer, and may therefore
be referred to comparatively modern times. That this was once
a Roman fort, there can be no doubt; the only question is, as to
the remains of the ditches and redoubts now visible. A piece of
lead, weikhing upwards of 11 stones, of the shape of a cast of pig-
iron, was lately found. It has been sawn into two pieces. There
are some rude marks on it resembling the Roman numerals for
two hundred. Stones bearing inscriptions have also been dug up
among the ruins of all these forts. Many of these are in the Hun-
terian Museum at Glasgow. Mr Dunn, the last minister of Kir-
kintilloch, mentions one with the words Legio Secunda Augusta
Fecit. The ditch is in a pretty entire state in many places on the


