
                                BRECHIN.                             141

The prison is tolerably well secured. An attempt was made about
two years ago to escape by the ceiling, but was discovered in time
to prevent it. To promote a current of air, an iron door with
grating has been lately erected. Two apartments have each a
window; the black hole has a small opening only to let in air, and
a feeble light. The superintendence is in the hands of the ma-
gistrates.
	Fairs, &c.--There are several fairs or markets in the parish. The
celebrated Trinity Muir market is held at a mile's distance from
the town, four times in the year. The one held in the month of
June is by far the best attended. At the terms of Whitsunday and
Martinmas there are very considerable markets held on the streets
for the hiring of servants, as well as for the sale of merchants'
goods. Markets for horses and cattle are held for several weeks in
winter and spring every Tuesday, which is the weekly market day;
but butcher-meat of the best quality, and especially mutton, can
be had at any time in abundance.
	Inns.--There are by far too many inns and other public houses,--
upwards of sixty in the town and tenements,--besides three or four
in the country part of the parish. Their effects on lorals are
in many cases very bad.
	Fuel.--The chief fuel is coal brought by land-carriage from
Montrose. An ordinary cart-load costs 5s. in addition to the
price of the coals at the shore. Some wood is got in the neigh-
bourhood, on which the poor depend much for fuel. It is not al-
ways honestly come by. There are no peats nearer than Arnhall
in the Mearns; of course they are but little made use of.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	There are striking changes, both in the personal appearance of
the people and in places, within the last thirty years. Much bet-
ter houses are built, both in the town and country. Far more
hedges are planted; and other kinds of fences are more complete.
The alteration in the dress of both sexes is very remarkable.
Bonnets and plaids, then common, are now almost exploded. The
desire of knowledge is increasing, and a love of reading is pretty ge-
neral. On the whole, the people have many advantages of which
it is to be hoped not a few of them are sensible.

	Drawn up January 1833.
	 Revised December 1833.


