
      336                     PERTHSHIRE.

      micaceous particles, assumes a hard and durable quality, passing
      into red sandstone; quarries of which have been worked near
      Millearne, and at Lawhill, near the church.  The trap dike, so
      conspicuous at Drummond Castle, traverses the county from west
      to east parallel with the northern boundary of the parish, occa-
      sionally rising into rugged ridges.  Specimens of a heavy grayish
      stone, found at Denburn, on the property of Sir Thomas Moncrieff,
      were, I am told, sent some years ago to skilful mineralogists, who
      reported that they contained a small proportion of copper; but the
      distance from coal is so great that the return never could have
      compensated the outlay.  The parish contains soil of every variety.
        Zoology.-We have many varieties of cattle.  The short-horned
      breed, recently introduced by the patriotic exertions of the Viscount
      Strathallan, are rising rapidly in estimation, and very high prices are
      given for bulls and bull calves of that valuable stock.  There are few
      sheep pastured.  The Leicester kind seem the general favourites.  The
      bdneficial practice, however, of feeding off turnip with sheep, is ra-
      pidly extending, for which purpose the black-faced are most com-
      monly used.  The fish found in the Earn are salmon, yellow and
      sea trout, pike and perch.  The Earl of Kinnoul, the Viscount
      Strathallan, Sir Thomas Moncrieff, Mr Home Drummond, and
      Mr Hepburn, have a right to fishings, but the operations of the
      stake-nets on the Tay have for many years rendered the upper
      fishings of little value.
        Plantations.-There are no very uncommon plants found in
      the parish. The extent of plantation is about 1000 acres, prin-
      cipally upon the properties of Mr Oliphant of Gask, Sir Thomas
      Moncrieff, Viscount Strathallan, Mr Graham Stirling, and Mr
      Hepburn.  The oldest woods consist entirely of Scotch, firs, the
      more recently planted of larch, spruce, and oak, all of which seem
      to agree well with the climate and soil.  The largest hard-wood
      trees are found around Millearne House and Colquhalzie, but

      they are in no respect remarkable.
                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         Parochial Registers-The Session records of the parish contain
      accounts of baptisms, fines, collections, distributions, and disci-
      pline.  They commence in 1641. The most memorable facts
      mentioned are "on Sunday, the 5th of November 1643, the cove-
      nant was read, explicate, and public intimation made that all be
      present the next day to swear and subscribe it."-" On Sunday,
      the 12th November, this day all did swear and subscribe the co-
      venant." We have also an account of the first provision made by


