
     of North Yell and Fetlar.

   Population, etc.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the
number of souls in 1755 was 1098.  The population here
continued from the year 1709 till 1769 without increase
or decrease; but since inoculation took place, we have
increased considerably, viz, from 900 to 1300 and upwards,
as the statement' below will show.  Thes births are about
30, the deaths (since 1769) are 15 a-year at an average,
and the marriages 6.  In North Yell and Fetlar there were
alive January 1, 1793, 1346; of whom there were in
Fetlar,

<TABLE>

     Men unmarried,                                  45
     Women unmaried,                                 80
     Widowers,                                       17
     Widows,                                         26
     Souls in non-age, children, etc. and married      
     persons,                                       628

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

month of March, and return again in September; the lapwing, black-
bird, and cuckoo, are frequently seen here, and a very large kind of hawk
nestles here every summer; a young one was kept only for three months,
yet measured 42 inches from the tip of one wing to the tip of the other;
the bird has kept the same precipice for perhaps this century by past.  We
have no horses here in this ministry, but we have plenty of ponies, which
we keep at no charge, and they answer our purpose in every point much
better than those of a larger breed.  The sheep here are greatly upon the
decline; we have no fine wool in this island, but on the other part of the
minister's charge, there would be sheep in great abundance, did not theft
prevail there, and in a great many places of the country, to such a degree,
that it beggars description.  Neither will this be wondered at, if it is
taken into consideration, that there has not been one capital punishment
inflicted in this Lordship (which consults at least of 21,000) for a century
by past, for any crime whatever; the punishments inflicted for such crime
of theft, in particular, are so extremely mild, that they rather excite to
the commission of the crime than deter from it.  The price of wool is
every day increasing, which bears extremely hard upon the poor; and 
above 2-3ds of our people are really so.  About 40 years age, our coarse
wool sold for 3 d, the merk, or 20 ounces; the lowest price now for the
worst wool is 8 d, the merk, and our finest wool far exceeds the pride of
Spanish wool. 
  

