
                            SLAINS.                               589

use; and, were it not that the people in the country are as yet un-
acquainted with the proper method of using coals economically,
there is little doubt they would be preferred by them to peats,
being upon the whole almost as cbeap,-and, moreover, the time
which is spent in preparing peat-fuel might be more profitably em-
ployed in agricultural and other operations.
   November 1840.
  Revised April 1841.

                        PARISH OF SLAINS. *

               PRESBYTERY OF ELLON, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                  THE REV. JAMES RUST, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   ALL my endeavours to ascertain the era at which the parish of
Forvie was annexed to that of Slains have entirely failed.
   Extent, &c.-The extreme length of the parish is somewhat
more than 6 miles, breadth about 3 1/2, and it is of a triangular
shape.  It is bounded on the west south-west by the river Ythan,
which divides it from Foveran; on the north-west, by the rivulet
called Forvie burn, which separates it from Logie Buchan; on the
east-northeast, by the parish of Cruden ; and on the south-east,
by the northern ocean.
   The surface of the parish is remarkably varied, and beautifully
undulating.
   The rocky part of the coast abounds with caves, the most re-
markable of which is the Dropping Cave, or White Cave of
Slains.  It would seem that, in former times, it was an object of
deep interest to the curious, and it is still so considered.  There
are several other caves in which, as well as in the Dropping Cave,
fine specimens of petrifaction are to be found; but their chief ce-
lebrity arose from their having afforded excellent places of conceal-
ment for contraband goods in the "high and palmy state" of
smuggling, which was carried on here to an almost incredible ex-
tent.  One of these caves, called Hell-lum, is upwards of 200 feet
in length, and the pitch of the arch within, in some places, rises
to the height of thirty feet.
   There is one fissure of about thirty yards in length, four feet

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. Gavin Dunn.


