
192			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

driving a meal-mill, to which nearly all the parish is thirled, it
might be almost, if not altogether dried. It contains trouts, pikes,
perches, and eels. The second is Lochroan, which is larger than
the former, containing about fifty acres of ground, and is supplied
with water from no visible source but the clouds. It is situated in
the highest district of the parish, and its depth varies from 60 to 130
feet. It is seldom frozen in winter and its water is remarkable clear.
The third is Lochsmaddy, which is not nearly the size of either
of the two former ones, but is said to be deep, and, like them, to
contain the kinds of fish which have already been mentioned.
	On the estate of Auchendolly there is a chalybeate spring,
which has not been analyzed, but which is probably too weak to
be beneficially employed.
	The river Dee, which forms the western boundary of the pa-
rish, rises at the head of the parish of Minnigaff from Loch Dee
and other sources in the north-western district of the stewartry,
and runs in a south-east course of twenty-two miles, when it meets
at Livingstone with the Ken, which, although supplying the great-
est quantity of water, loses its name in the Dee, which then be-
comes the largest river in Galloway, and formed of old the boun-
dary between the powerful tribes of the Selgovae and Novantes.
It is noticed by Ptolemy and Richard under the name of Deva.
	The Ken, which risds in the northern part of the stewartry,
runs twenty-five miles in a southerly course, forms a lake of four
miles and a-half long and half a mile broad, called Loch Ken.
These rivers, after their junction, form another lake of similar
length and smaller breadth, having the parishes of Balmaghie on
the west, and Parton and Crossmichael on the east. These col-
lections of water, extending to about ten miles in length, frequently
overflow the adjoining land, and are navigable. Formerly, great
quantities of marl were brought from Carlinwark loch by a canal
to the Dee, and which passed up to New, Galloway, fifteen miles
distant from the loch. The canal was of very moderate dimen-
sions, and is now partially filled up. The late Sir Alexander
Gordon obtained an act of Parliament for making a canal from
the sea to near Glenlochar bridge, which, according to the calcu-
lations of engineers about the end of last century, could have been
executed for about L,9000. That sum, however, it appears could
not be procured, and the undertaking was most reluctantly aban-
doned by its public-spirited and benevolent author. The Dee,
after leaving this parish, runs southward, dividing the parishes of
                                 6


