
     of Inverness.

material, with which, according to them, the rock abound-
ed, and of more easy acquisition than stones.  In the Phi-
losophical Transactions for the year 1777, part ii. No 20.
the Secretary says,  "Specimens of the burnt matter of
Craig-Phatric, near Inverness, had been well examined by
some of the members well acquainted with volcanic pro-
ductions, and had been by them judged to be real lava."
How strong and respectable soever, the authority of this
judgment may appear, it can have no force with those who
have been upon the rock, and examined with attention the
ramparts, which are composed, not of individual blocks,
but of continued, extensive and unbroken masses.  The
ramparts exhibit evident proofs of their having undergone
the process of vitrification, on the very foundations which
they at present occupy, and consequently are not volcanic
productions*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In many of the Higland hills, there are great quantities of vitrified
matter.  It is seen collected into small heaps.  These is in some places
only one heap, in others there are two, but not above three in any place
together.  This matter is in great abundance on the hills of Eysick and
Borlum belonging to the parishes of Inverness and Dores.  Round each
of the heaps there is a circle of grit, evidently fragments of the virtified
matter worn down by time and the weather.  On this circle no plant is
observed to vegetate.  A small tenant on the hill of Borlum upon his
coming into his little uncultivated possession, chose a spot for a garden on
which there were two heaps of the vitrified matter, he removed them,
but deemed has labour lost, for during a residence of several years, no
plant would grow where they stood.  These vitrifications are curious.
We unquestionably are much in the dark respecting the history of the an-
cient inhabitants of this country and their arts.-There is at the distance
of 2 miles south from Inverness, not far from the military road, and on
the west side of it, the ruin of a large structure It was raised on an
eminence of about 30 feet above the surrounding plain.  There are no
traces of the form of this structure.  It was one of the many ancient
buildings which according to some were erected before the date or the
knowledge of mortar and iron in this country, as no vestige of the ham-
mer or of any kind of cement appears.  Hundreds of loads of the stones
of this ruin were lately carried to Inverness.

     END OF VOLUME NINTH.

