
SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                          131

turn their labour to better account, the schools are thrown vacant,
and, before other teachers can be provided, the children have lost
a great part of what they had learred.  I may here be allowed to
observe, that a school situated in any particular district in the pa-
rish can benefit only that particular district in which it is placedw
The parish is very extended, and the population is placed, for the
most part, around the outskirts of it.  For this reason it is that
the benefits of a school are confined to those alone who reside in
the immediate neighbourhood of it.  The people in general ma-
nifest an anxietv to have their children educated; and yet, when
they have the means in their power, do not improve them, to the
extent which they might.  There are no children arrived at an
age capable of being instructed, who cannot read.
Charitable Institutions.-A fund was established in 1810, calle&
The Shetland Fisherman's Fund," which had for its object the re-
lief of old and decayed fishervaen, and the widows of fishermen.  Its
supporters at first were the more wealthy in, the country, and an year-
ly payment of 2s., in addition to 2s. paid by every fisherman on his,
being enrolled a member.  Aded fishermen have been receiving
from 5s. to 7s., and widows 14 yearly.  It is managed by twelve
general directors, one representing each parish, and by parochial
committees.
Poor and Parochial Funds.-The relief afforded to the poor
arises altogether from church-door collections, the amount of which
may be stated at 1-10 Sterling.  Out of this, the average number
of poor persons who receive aid is about 25, and the extent of aid
afforded to them varies from 3s. to 12s. yearly.  Housewives, who
are active and industrious, receive occasionally a small sum as a
reward for their activity and industry.  The small sum allowed to
the stated poor would be altogether inadequate for their support
if the people did not, in addition to the Sabbath offering1so contri-
bute cheerfully in another way.  The kirk-session divides the parish
into as many sections as there are poor persons.  In each of these,
a poor person is stationed, who generally remains in each family
one day for every inerk of land which they rent, and receive victuals
and lodging; while the small, pittance received from the session is
laid out in the purchase of clothes.
There are more applications for admission to the poor's roll
than can be sustained, and the receiving of i parochial aid is consi-
dered no degradation.
Fairs.-That the people may obtain a more ready sale for their

