
                            CLATT.                         851

   Druidical Monuments and Tumuli.-At a period of very remote
antiquity, this parish appears to have been one of the favoured
seats of the Druids.  Until within the last thirty years, there ex-
isted in the northern division of the parish, the distinct remains
of a Druidical temple, of which only the supposed altar-stone,
and a few of the upright stones, which were placed in the circum-
ference, now remain.  The stone supposed to have formed the
sacrificial altar in the centre, was of large dimensions, consisting
of 10 feet in length, 9 feet in breadth, and 4 feet in thickness.
It was placed at an angle of about 45&deg; with the dip in the direc-
tion of the meridian.  At each extremity, longitudinally, there
stood a perpendicular stone of about 6 feet in height, vulgarly                              11      In
styled "the Horns of the Altar," and in the line of the circle, of
about 25 yards diameter, there were placed, at equal distances,
seven upright stones, from 5 to 6 feet in height.  The whole
space within the circumference was rudely paved with stones to
the depth of about three feet.  Within the precincts of this hea-
then temple, no relic of the olden time has been discovered; but
at a distance of about a quarter of a mile, in different directions,
several tumuli have been opened, some of which contained
ornamented earthen jars ftill of bones in a calcined state.
A few years atto, upwards of twenty of these tumuli, that had
escaped observation from a thick covering of heath and furze,
were discovered in the progress of improving some moorish ground.
To each of the tumuli was allotted a detached circular space of
about six yards diameter.  In the line of the circle, there was
placed a continued series of upright stones, which distinctly marked
the circular spot, and in the centre of each, a grave had been dug
of the usual dimensions.  Some of them had been cut out of the
solid rock to the depth of about five feet.  On opening some of
them, small pieces of burnt bones were found, and, in others, the
shdes at the bottom were lined in the form of a coffin with de-
tached blocks of sandstone.  On the period to which these se-
pulchral monuments refer, tradition is entirely silent.  From their
contiguity to the remains of the supposed Druidical temple, there
is ground for conjecture that these formed the cemeteries of the
priests of the Druids, and in a line leading from the site of the
temple to some of these tumuli that were opened a few years ago,
there could be distinctly traced a rtide causeway of stone.  At a
short distance from these tumuli, there was recently dug up, at
the depth of about six feet, a smooth stone, 4 feet long by 2 feet


