
                      NEW CUMNOCK.                               521

but this is never necessary, as a short distance might be made level
occasion`lly in every long ascent. Unless Sir C. S. Menteath had
adopted the friction brake in common use for heavy carriages in
Belgium, no horse could take down three ton weight with the drag
in common use. This brake is applied to the two hind wheels of
a waggon by means of a screw, which presses a plank of wood
against the wheels of the waggon, and enables the carter to apply
as much friction as is necessary to retard the wheels without stop-
ping or dragging them.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated between the
villages of New Cumnock and Afton Bridgend, and, though not
precisely in the centre of the parish, occupies a very eligible situa-
tion for the great bulk of the population. It was built about five
years ago, is in perfect repair, and is capable of accommodating
with ease 1000 sitters. The free sittings are about 100. The
precise date of the erection of the manse, I have not been able to
ascertain; an addition to it was built, about forty years ago. It
is in an indifferent state of repair. The glebe consists of eleven
acres, and may be worth annually from L. 20 to L. 30. The sti-
pend is L. 177, paid in money.
	There is a small meeting-house in the parish, in connection with
the Reformed Presbyterians. They have no minister, and I be-
lieve have never had one; but are occasionally supplied with ser-
mon by preachers of that denomination, nr by neighbouring mi-
nisters.
	The following table shews the relative numbers of dissenters
and churchmen in 1831:--Individuals belonging to Established
Church, 1752; Seceders of various denominations, 299; Re-
formed Presbyterians, 117. The average number of communi-
cants in the parish church, may be stated at 600. The number on
the communicants' roll is considerably larger. The people, con-
sidering the wide surface over which they are scattered, and the
consequent distance of many of them from the church, are very
regular in their attendance on religious ordinances.
	Education.--There are, at present, five schools in the parish,
besides the parish school. Some of these, however, are attended
by a very small number of scholars, and their continuance is very
precarious. The following table exhibits the various branches
taught in the parochial school, the rate of wages, and their annual
amount: English reading per quarter, 2s. 6d.; writing additional,
3s.; arithmetic do. 3s. 6d.: English grammar, do. 4s.; geography


