
     of Kinneff.

   Miscellaneous Remarks.-The famous Dr John Arbuthnott,
intimate friend of Pope and Swift, and physician to Queen
Anne, lived for some time in this parish.  His fathers the mi-
nister of Arbuthnott, was, at the Revolution, turned out of
his living by his chief and patron, Lord Arbuthnott, who was
then a very keen partizan; upon which, he retired to his own
property of Kingorny, where he lived for some time, having
his son, the Doctor, a young man, along with him.
   Since improvements in agriculture and manufactures have

     VOL. VI. D d

<FOOTNOTE>

by a maid-servant, having been at Stonehaven, on her return asked leave of
the general to visit Mrs Ogilvie, wife of Mr George Ogilvie, who then com-
manded the castle: this leave she obtained; and, on her return, brought the
crown royal in her lap; the general himself let her on the horse, and the maid
who attended her brought away the sword and sceptre on her back in a bag of
flax.  The regalia were kept sometimes in the church of Kinneff, concealed
under the pulpit, and at other times in a double bottomed bed in the manse,
till the Restoration in 1660, when they were delivered to Mr George Ogilvie,
who restored them.  For this good service Mr Ogilvie was made a baronet;
and Sir John Keith, brother to the Earl Marischal, was created Earl of Kin-
tore; but honer Mr Granger and his wife had neither honour nor reward.
   Four or five years ago, in digging a grave for Lady Ogilvie of Barras, in the
church of Kinneff, there was found, buried in an earthen pot, about a pound
and a half of old silver coins.  They were almost all of one size, about
the breadth of sixpence; a few about half that size; and all bore ei-
ther the impression of Edward of England, or of Alexander of Scotland.  The
impression and legend on the Scotch coins are much better executed than on the
English.  It is likely this treasure might have been laid where it was found, a-
bout the year 1336, when the English garrison occupied the castle of Kinneff.
   There was a tumulus or cairn, upon St John's hill in this parish, opened a-
bout 20 years ago: in the bottom of which, a little under the surface of the
ground, were found three long flat stones, one of them covering the other
two, and having a shorter one at each end.  In this was contained nearly a cart-
load of rich black earth; having a mixture of half burnt bones, and bits of
oak charcoal, without any kind of urn.  There are other tumuli in the pa-
rish.


