
			FLISK.	         		607

house and twelve cottages, seven of which are occupied by the
farm-servants.
  Means of Communication.-The parish is deficient in proper and
convenient means of communication.  The nearest post-offices are
in Newburgh and Cupar. The same must be said regarding public
conveyances.  There is no turnpike, but the statute labour road be-
tween Woodhaven and Newburgh, runs through the length of the
parish, distant about a quarter of a mile from the river.  The nearest
piers are at Balmerino and Newburgh. The steamers between Dun-
dee and Perth pass and repass daily for a great part of the year, but
there are no proper and regular means of getting on board.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church is beautifully situated on the
banks of the Tay, one mile from the eastern, three from the western,
and between four and five from the south-western extremity of the
parish.  Glenduckie, containing, small as it is, about one-fifth of
the population, lies four miles from the church ; and Dunbog
church being close at hand, the inhabitants generally attend di-
vine service there.
  The church was built in 1790, and is in good repair, affording
accommodation for 153 sitters. It was seated by the heritors, and
portioned off to the farmers; and the seats are given by them to
their servants and cottars.  The sittings at the communion table
are left unallocated.
  The manse was built in 1811.  The glebe, exclusive of house,
offices, and garden ground, is about 5 acres imperial, and might rent
for L.7.  The stipend is 10 chalders, 8 bolls Scotch of grain, and
L.10, 7s. 2d. in money, L.1, 13s. 4d. of which is grass-money; the
average for the last four years is L.149, and for the first three of
these only L.141.  There is no separate allowance for communion
elements.
  The number of families connected with the Established Church
is 51, comprehending 247 individuals; and four familties, compre-
hending nine individuals, attend Dissenting and Seceding places of
worship. The average number of communicants in the Establish-
ed Church is 120.
  List of the Ministers of the Parish from 1561.-Those from
1561 to 1700, are given from a recently published " Catalogue of
the Ministers in the Synod of Fife, from the Reformation in 1560
to the year 1700;" the rest are from the Presbytery Records.
  Mr (Sir) Jame Balfour, " persoune of Flisk," 1561, Mr Robert

<FOOTNOTE>From about this time the use of the tent on sacramental occassions seems to have
been discontinued.



