
116                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

<TABLE>
   Number of families in the parish in 1831,        .       .     .      88
                      chiefly employed in agriculture,     .        .    53
			trade, manufactures, or handicraft,                 .   8

   Number of illegitimate births during the last three years, 5.
   Less than twenty years ago, illicit distillation was almost uni-
versally practised among the lower orders; but for many years,
nothing of the kind has existed.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Within the last twenty or twenty-five years, both
the theory and practice of agriculture have experienced a great
and favourable alteration.  The ridges then raised in the middle,
and with deep valleys between, are now straight as an arrow, and
level as a turnpike road.
   The numerous ploughing matches established in most parishes,
where small premiums are given to the best ploughmen, have
greatly contributed to this salutary change, and have excited a
laudable spirit of emulation among the young farm-servants,
which is attended with many good effects.  These ploughing
competitions were principally set agoing by the proprietors of Ga-
rinch district, who formed themselves into a Farmer Club in 1808.
They were soon joined by other proprietors and gentlemen farm-
ers around, who, by judiciously bestowing prizes contributed by
the members, have done great benefit to a considerable extent of
country. This club still exists.
   Except a few acres under wood, and a patch or two of rocky
moor, the whole parish is under the plough.  The long teams of ten
or twelve cattle in a plough have long since given place to the pair
of horses without a driver.  There is a large heathy undivided
common between Kinellar and Kintore; but whether it should
belong to the Earl of Kintore, to the burgh, or in general to all
the contiguous proprietors, has never been decided.
   When Mr Tower purchased Kinaldie about sixteen years ago,
the greater proportion of it consisted of poor, thin, heathy, stony
ground, which, by judicious management and great expense, he
has converted into well laid out enclosed fields, which produce
very fair crops of grain and turnip. *

<FOOTNOTE>The situation of this place forbids the supposition that its name is derived from
the Gaelic.  Kin, in that language, signifies the head, whereas Kinaldie is situated at
the Inver, or mouth of a stream.  Its name is probably derived from Kenneth, the
Scottish King, whose name is written Cinadius many ancient records.  History
informs us that one of the kings of this name was forced, during the troubles which
disturbed his reign, to betake himself to the northern parts of his kingdom, where
he was engaged in frequent contests with the Danes.  The place which we
have alreadi mentioned as being the scene of a conflict, at some distant period, may
have been the field on which on some occasion Kenneth or Cinadius may have
                                   4

