
262                       FORFARSHIRE.

the latter at 9s. 6d. per boll, which is nearly also the load of a
single horse cart.
		MISCELLANOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the last Statistical Account, the real rental of the parish
has been more than doubled, having increased from L. 4000 to
L. 9500. The population has received an addition of more than
300 souls. The poor's fund, or principal at interest, has been
increased by donations and bequests from L. 200 to L. 850: the
number of weekly pensioners has, at the same time, become more
than double. The number of Dissenters from the Establishdd
church has decreased from 20 to 5. The church, manse, and
school, all the mansions of the proprietors, and all the farm-houses
except two, have been rebuilt. The population in the villages has
become greater in proportion to that in the country part of the pa-
rish, in consequence of many cottages having been thrown down,
and several pendicles of land added to the larger farms. There
is, especially, a greater increase of the fishing population, who
form, indeed, a most valuable class of the community, both pro-
curing their own bread, and providing an abundant supply of whole-
some food for others, at the daily peril of their lives, without trou-
bling the public about rise of wages, or demands for employment.
They are well treated in this parish by their immediate landlords;
but they still labour under some old feudal burdens, and are not
so generally appreciated and encouraged as they deserve.
	There is a greater shifting of the agricultural population at the
usual terms, especially among the unmarried servants, and a con-
sequent deterioration of their morals, as they rarely remain long
enough in the same parish to be properly brought under pastoral
inspection and instruction, and seem to become less anxious to main-
tain a good character in places where they are comparatively
strangers, and from which they are likely so soon to remove. This
evil appears to be owing, in no small degree, to the system of keep-
ing the unmarried men-servants apart from the master's family,
lodged in out-houses called bothies, making their own food, and liv-
ing, during their unemployed hours, much at their own discretion.
There is a greater want of employment for the more aged females.
who are not able to work, or to find work, in the fields; and who
cannot subsist upon the produce of their casual and poorly paid in-
door occupations.
   Though there can be no question that large farms tend both to
improve and uphold the agriculture of the country; yet a few pen-
dicles of land, from five to twenty acres in each parish, in the pro-


