
                            MIDDLEBIE.                               369

	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is by no means central in this
parish, being only half-a mile from the westerly end of it, adjoining
to Hoddain, and seven or eight miles from its opposite extremity; but
notwithstanding this, it is not so inconvenient to the great Mass of
the inhabitants as might be imagined, though gradually becoming
more so from an increase of population in these districts, which
were formerly less frequented. It was built in 1821, and affords
accommodation to 700 persons; but, I regret to say, contains no
free sittings. The manse was built about a century ago; but it
has frequently been repaired since, with the addition of several
apartments. The glebe is about 15 acres in extent, and L. 30 in
value. The teinds are exhausted, and insufficient to cover the last
augmentation given in 1806, though the parish is one of the most
extensive and populous in the county, and the rental great and in-
creasing. The amount of stipend, inclusive of communion elements,
is L. 220, 9s. 7 1/2d.
	There is in this parish a Dissenting meeting-house of the Relief
persuasiou, the minister of which is paid by the seat rents, and re-
ceives, I understand, somewhere about L. 70 per annum. The
number of families and of persons of all ages belonging to the
Established Church is of the former, 232, and of the latter, 1160.
The number of the same belonging to the Relief meeting-house is
of the former, 129, and of the latter, 645. Divine service is in ge-
neral attended extremely well in the Established Church, and is so,
I believe, also in the meeting-house, though many of the sitters
in this last place are not Dissenters, but take seats in it, merely
in consequence of their distance from the parish church, while
they receive scaling ordinances in the Establishment. The average
number of our communicants is somewhere about 300. We have
no societies for religious purposes established in the parish, but
have occasionally collections in thd church in behoof of the As-
sembly's funds for promoting Education in the Highlands, and pro-
pagating the Gospel in India,--each of which may be stated as
amounting at an average to L. 4.
	Education.--There are two parochial and four private schools
in this parish, in the former of which are taught Greek, Latin,
and French, with the more common branches of education. The
maximum salary is divided betwixt the parochial teachers, and
the fees of each amount to somewhere about L. 24 a year; but
neither of them has a house. The average expense of education is
about 9s. 6d. per annum. I cannot agree with some who think that
the moral temperature of the community is lower than it was thir-


