
                          RENFREW.                              34

at a time; and there is another subscription, library in the burgh,
which has long existed.  There is no school of arts or mechanics'
institution; but an association is in progress of being formed for
the cultivation of natural history and the useful arts.  A news-room
is also maintained for the convenience of burgesses and strangers.
  Benifit Societies.-These are numerous, amounting to at least seven

in the burgh.  Some of them provide for widows; but they are chiefly
for cases of personal inability to work; they have frequently failed
to implement their conditions, the aliments fixed being generally
too high for the subscriptions.  Some of, them, however, are, we
understand, doing well.  One of these, the " Sailors' Society,"
is said to have existed in the fourteenth century, and is possessed
of considerable property; but its income has been dependent on
other sources than subscriptions.  Several societies also exist for
furnishing mortcloths, mort-safes, &c.  It is at present a matter of
consideration, in the parish, whether to attempt establishing, a sav-
ings bank; the chief hinderance being the pre-existence of so many
benefit societies, that would probably suffer by the withdrawal of
funds.
Poor's funds.-A considerable sum of money was long held by
the kirk-session for behoof of the poor.  But for many years, the
expenditure has so exceeded the income as greatly to reduce the
stock; and for the last two years a voluntary assessment has been
agreed to among the heritors, for the annual deficiency.  In ad-
dition to the collections, there is only one mortification, amount-
ing to about L. 60,-the interest of which is available, and only
a few pounds of interest from the remaining stock; there are
no dues connected mith mortcloths or ecelesiastical observances
paid into the poor's funds.  In addition to the ordinary and sa-
cramental collections, there is a special collection every year, to
which non-resident heritors also contribute.  The amount thus
raised in 1834, including interest, as above stated, was about
L.147, and the expenditure L.212; leavin a deficiency of L.65.
  The number of poor regularly alimented about 50, and the num-
ber who receive occasional aid about as many more.  The most
common aliment to aged persons able to do a little, and without
children, is 4s. per month.  But in addition to this, even the ali-
mented poor receive a few shillings on sacramental occasions, and
at the beginning of winter.  What is desirable under this head
is enlarged church accomodation, and the moral cultivation of
the parish, which are alone adequate, fairly to meet the wants, and
promote the happiness of the poor.


