
     of Mid-Calder.

when Malcolm, the general of the heir of the Scotch 
crown, was attacked by the Emperor constantine IV.
Nay, for any thing we can show to the contrary, it may
have taken place at some critical period, the history of
which has not been transmitted to us, and which is now 
no otherwise known, but by the dreadful memorials 
which are held out to us by the remains of so many war-
riors slain in the field*.
   There are several mounds in this neighbourhood
which appear to be barrows, where dead bodies were de-
posited.  This mode of burying was as ancient as the 
siege of Troy+.
   Report bears, that in the battle which has been alluded
to, a considerable person, or leader, fell, who was buried
in the churchyard of East Calder.  The stone which 
marks the spot where his body was laid, is still to be
seen on the S.  side of the church, at a little distance from
the wall, and nearly apposite to the middle of it.  The
stone is a segment of an octagon, containing 4 of its sides.
     3 A 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*That this conflict was about the end of the 10th century, between
Constantine and Malcolm, seems to be supported by the following in-
scription, which was taken many years ago from a stone which stands
near Kirkliston, and which, by the people in the neighbourhood, is called
Catt Stane.

     "In Hoc Tum. Jac. Constan. Vic. Vict.ll."

   I have seen a differnt copy of this inscription; but it was not so per-
fect, and was probably transcribed at a later period, when the letters
were more defaced.  It may be objected, that if any of the Romans had 
fallen in this battle, we might have found ashes and urns; but neither
bones nor coffins belonging to them.  To which it may be answered.
that burning the dead was not general among the Romans, till toward 
the end of the Republic; and that it gradually sell into disuse, and was
altogether laid aside about the end of the 4th century.

+See Dalzel's Translations of Chevalier's Plains of Troy, chap.12-16.

llSee Earl Burban's Disiourfe at the commencement of the Antiquarian So-
ciety in Edinburgh.


