
                        CORSTORPHINE.                      225

Church were not sufficient for the comfortable maintenance of ten
prebendaries and two boys, and prayed that the number might be
restricted to nine.     In consequence of this application, Pope
Eugenius issued another bull, limiting the number of prebendaries
to nine.   This bull is dated 15th July 1444, and was confirmed
and carried into effect by James Kennedy, Bishop of St Andrews,
who proceeded in virtue of it to arrange and distribute the proper-
ty of the Collegiate Church among its several office-bearers, by a
charter dated 30th October 1444.* This division is as follows, viz.
   To the Provost, the church of Clerkington, the teinds of Ratho,
as well south as north, the teinds of Rolshaw (probably Roding-
law), and six merks Scots, at two terms in the year, out of the com-
mon funds of the college.
  And to the eight prebendaries or chaplains, as follows, viz.
  To the two chaplains of Gogar and Addistown, the teinds of
upper Gogar and Addistown, with ten merks Scots, half yearly, out
of the common purse.
  To the two chaplains of Haltoun and Dalmaboy, the teinds of
Haltoun and Dalmaboy, with ten merks Scots half yearly, out of
the common purse.
  To the two chaplains of Boningtoun and Plet, the teinds of
Boningtoun and Plet (now Ratho Hall and Hillwood), with ten
merks Scots, half yearly, out of the common purse.
  To the two chaplains of Nortoun and Byres, the teinds of
Nortoun and Byres, (now Ratho Byres,) with ten merks Scots,
half yearly, out of the common purse.  And to the two boys in the
said college, 24 bolls of usual victual, and L. 3 yearly, from the com-
mon purse, to be equally divided between them.
  And for the stipend of the vicar and the burdens of the kirk of
Ratho, maintenance of the fabric, expense of bread and wine for
the sacrament, of the altar, lights, cups, books, and other ornaments
of the claplainries and college, L, 12 from rents mortified by Sir
John Forrester, besides the fruits of the altarage of the kirk of
Ratho and 3 cbalders of victual out of the teinds, above appropri-
ated to the provost of the college.*
  It is interesting to find this division of the Collegiate Church cor-
roborated in the charter confirming. the donation by the vicar of
Kirkurd, to the parish kirk, already quoted, dated 27th September
1473, in which the whole establishment of one provost and eight

<FOOTNOTE>Sir L. Stewart's Coll.      Ibid.

EDINBURGH.                                         P


