
404                      ROSS AND CROMARTY.

It consists of several straths and glens, and abounds in hills and
rivers.
  Hydrography.-The division betwixt this parish and the county
of Sutherland is an arm of the sea, commonly called the Kyle;
the tide flows twelve miles up this frith from Bonar, and receives
three rivers, the Oikell, the Cassley, and the Shin in its course.
These are all excellent angling streams; and in the Cassley,
about a mile above Rosehally there is a very remarkable waterfall,
forming a salmon leap of great altitude. The lochs in the parish,
though not of great extent, are very numerous; and some of them
contain excellent trout.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-The prevailing rocks here belong to
the granite and sandstone formation. This parish remains hither-
to unexplored by any who have knowledge of mines. On the
farm of Dibidale, stands one of our highest mountains, called
Carnchuinaig, on which stones have been found perfectly simi-
lar to those known by the name of Cairngorms; and Knockirny,
where the parish marches with Assynt, abounds in marble, white
and party-coloured. On the top of the highest mountain in Bal-
nagown forest, which is called Sciulm-a-'Charra, and is distant
many miles from the sea, shells of different sorts of fish are found,
some of them deeply imbedded in the earth.
  Zoology.-In the remote parts, amongst the hills, are red-deer
(Cervus elephas); and roes (C. capreolus) also abound. Foxes
(Canis vulpes) are exceedingly numerous, and destroy quantities of
sheep, notwithstanding all the precautions that can be taken to pre-
vent them. Badgers (Ursus meles), and wild cats (Felis catus feris),
are also found. In the rivers, there are otters (Mustela lutra).
Hares, rabbits, polecats, and weasels, are very plentiful; and far-
mers complain much of the operations of the mole (Talpa Euro-
pea). Squirrels are also found in the woods of Glen Ainaig.
  Birds.-Besides the several domestic kinds, there are a great
variety in the fields, woods, hills, and rivers; such as the wood
and mountain thrush (Turdus), green linnet (Loxia chloris),
blackbird (Merula), starling (Sturnus), cuckoo (Cuculus canorrus),
lark (Alauda arvensis), wild pigeon (Columba cenas), blackcock
(Tetrao tetrix), moor-fowl (T. Scoticus), partridge (T. perdix),
piarmigan (T. lagopus), plover. (Charadrius), &c. Among the
water-fowls are guils (Larus marinus), wild goose (Anser),
swan ;(A. cygnus), duck (A. boschas). crane (Grus), heron
(Ardea), and kingfisher (Alcedo ispida). Birds of prey also


