
     of Paisley.

of very bad effects.  It puts charity entirely off its natural
principle.  It is calculated to multiply the poor, and to in-
crease their demands, by holding out to their view a settled
maintenance which they can call their own.  It diverts them
of sensibility, by teaching them to claim it as their right,
when they would be ashamed to appear in the character of
beggars, thus it is unfavourable to industy; and it will
bring at length an intolerable burden upon the country.  It
is well known what evils are ascribed to the poor-tax in
England.  But Dr Windehorn brings a new charge against
it, by asserting, that, though there are in no country such
large contributions raised for the support of the poor as in
England, yet there is no where so great a number of them;
and their condition, in comparison with the poor of other countries,
appears truly the most miserable.  If a similar mode of providing
for the poor should prevail in this country, there is little se-
curity against the same evils attending it which have been so
long complained of in the neighbouring kingdom.
   Paisley proceeds upon the old plan, of maintaining the
poor as far as it is practicable in a populous town, and exhi-
bits a proof of the excellency of that method.  Though the
town is divided, as has been already observed, into three dis-
tinct parishes, yet, in respect of the maintenance of the poor,
they are considered as one.  Their funds are thrown into
one common stock; and the ministers and elders of the se-
veral parishes meet together from time to time to consider
the necessities of the poor, and to give them suitable relief.
The number of poor whom they have either occasionally re-
lieved, or entirely supported, for the last two years, amounts
to 240 each year, besides 13 children each year whom they
put out to nursing, and 25 whom they sent to school.  The
collections at the church-doors were, at an average, 393 L.
12 s. 1 1/2 d. each year, besides about 108 L. arising from pro-


