
	180                       BANFFSHIRE.

	many of the inhabitants, as well as by strangers, who come from
	the country for change of air, and the benefit of sea-bathing.
	There was formerly a loch called Soy, lying in the neighbourhood
	of, and giving name to, Portsoy ; but it is not now larger than a
	mill-pond, and has, for many years, been converted to this useful
	purpose.
	   Geology and Mineralogy.-This parish has been long known
	to afford to the geologist much that is interesting. Dr Hutton,
	the talented founder of the Plutonic school, early drew attention
	to it; and Professor Jameson of Edinburgh, in his volume of
	"Mineralogical Travels," has detailed, at considerable length,
	some of its most important geological phenomena. Serpentine is
	the rock which has given to it its chief celebrity, and which is
	known as an ornamental stone, not merely over Britain, but on the
	continent. In the palace of Versailles, it forms some of the chim-
	ney-pieces, and is known by the name of Scottish marble, the
	name which it most commonly receives from the parishioners. It
	is now, however, seldom wrought on a large scale; but there is an
	intelligent lapidary in Portsoy (Mr Abraham Clark) who forms it
	still into a variety of small ornamental pieces, such as obelisks,
	urns, &c. and who always keeps a large collection of minerals for
	the inspection of the curious.
	   From the celebrity of this parish, in a geological view, we shall
	notice, as fully as possible, the rocks which occur along the coast,
	commencing at the mouth of the Burn of Durn at Portsoy, and
	advancing westward. The first rock which presents itself is a mass
	of serpentine, about 300 feet thick, passing into a syenite, which,
	with a few strata of hornblende, and limestone with granite veins,
	forms the only rock, till we arrive at the other side of the barbour.
	The syenite is in general large, granular, and, in a few instances,
	contains crystals of hypersthene. The granite is also large and
	granular, and seems to be synchronous with the ryenite. We
	come next to a bed of white marble, of no value, however, as an
	ornamental stone. It is succeeded by a mass of white felspar
	rock, very compact, which passes in many places into serpentine.
	An alternating system of mica-slate and quartz rock, with a bed of
	limestone, now presents itself, and forms all the coast cliff up to
	the chief deposit of serpientine. The predominating qualities of

<FOOTNOTE>The writer begs here to acknowledge his obligations to Robert J. H. Cunning-
	ham, Esq. author of Essay on the Geology of the Lothians, &e. who kindly supplied
	the materials of this article, after a minute survey of the parish in 1839.


