
152                           RENFREWSHIRE.

section ; but in the place where the section is taken, the coals lie
as if they had been cut through, and one-half slid over the top of
the other.  This singular coal field is very limited in point of
extent. *
   Hawkhead or Hurlet coal is a stratum or seam 5 feet 3 inches
thick, declining eastward with a dip which is variable, but may on
an average be accounted one in seven.  It extends over several hun-
dred acres of land, principally in the Hawkhead estate, but also in
the adjoining estates of Nether Polloc and Househill.  By careful
and accurate measurements it has been ascertained that this same
bed of coal extends over 340 acres of Hawkhead estate, 85 acres
of Nether Polloc, and 50 acres of Househill; making in all an
area of 475 acres imperial measure.
   The strata intersected in a pit near Hurlet, on the west side of
Levern water, were as follows:-

<TABLE>
                                                                     Feet, Incher
1. Earth and clay,                                                    42     0
2. Sanil and gravel,                                                   8     0
3. Schistus, with some thin strata of limestone and many beds of iron-
       stone and ham of ironstone,                                   105     0
4. Limestone,                                                          3     0
5. Aluminous schistus                                                  3     1
6. Coal, containing balls of pyrites or copperas stones,               5     3
                                                                     ----------
                                                                     166     4

   This coal contains sulphur, and thereby possesses the property
of caking when exposed to heat.  The miners remark, that sul-
phur always exists in coal, lying immediately beneath limestone.
The Hurlet mines at one time contained inflammable air, and
through the negligence of some workmen in not using the neces-
sary precautions, several valuable lives have been lost.  Such acci-
dents, however, are now in a great measure dissipated by the free
circulation of atmospheric air throughout the waste, and the nume-
rous pits or shafts communicating with each other. +

<FOOTNOTE>In May 1818 one of these mines at Quarrelton was overflowed with water, and
five of the miners perished.  Two of the others were rescued alive, after having been
immured in the gloomy dungeon for ten days.  A very interesting account of all
the circumstances of this event is given in the Scots Magazine for 1819, p. 33.  The
statement was drawn up from the accounts of the men who escaped, both of whom,
two brothers of the name of Hodgert, are still living.  Appearances on the wests side
of quarrelton, and on the north side of the Beith road, indicate the flect of the ground
having sunk to a considerable extent.  In the old Statistical Account (Vol:vii. p.
81) this is noticed as follows:-"Some years ago this coal took fire, and the pillars
giving way, the ground sunk and left the surface in a very rugged state."  Similar
appearances on the surface, indicative probably of similar causes, are to be noticed in
others of the coal districts.
   See for further information on this and analogous, Mr Wilson's Agri-
cultural Survey, pp. 14-28, and 276-281.


