
     Statistical Account

30 s. to 40 s. per acre (though not inclosed); and in the coun-
try, good arable ground draws from 15 s. to 20 s.

   Burgh.-The town of ROSEMARKIE, though not large, is
of considerable antiquity.  It was erected into a royal burgh
by Alexander King of Scotland;-which of them is not speci-
fied, but it was probably Alexander II.  About a mile to
the W. of it, stands the town of Chanonry, so called from its
being the chanonry of Ross, where the bishop formerly had
his residence, and which is now the presbytery seat.  It was
united to the burgh of Rosemarkie, by a charter granted by
King James II. anno 1444, under the common name of Fort-
ross, now softened into Fortrose; which charter was ratified
by King James VI, anno 1592, and confirmed in a still more
ample form, by the same monarch, in the year 1612.  These
charters bear, that it was to be "entitled to all the privileges,
"liberties and immunities, granted to the town of Inverness."
Fortrose is then spoken of, as a town flourishing in the arts
and sciences, having been at that time the seat of divinity, law
and physic, in this corner of the kingdom*.

   Court Hill.-Above Rosemarkie there is a circular hill,
qiute level on the top, which seems to have been artificial.

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 6 years ago, a pared of silver coins were found in a small cairn of
stones, in a moor, about a mile from Rosemarkie.  They were mostly shillings
of Queen Elizabeth, with a mixture of other coins, and particularly some beau-
tiful ones of James I. and Charles I. of different sizes.  It is probable they were
deposited there in the time of the civil war, and may have been brought to the
country by the gallant Marquis of Montrose, or some of his followers.  Most
of them are in the possession of Mr. Wood, the minister of the parish.  About
200 more silver coins were found lately, in a massy copper jug of an antique
form in digging up the foundation of an old house at Chanonry.  They were
coined in the reign of Robert King of Scots, and are nearly of the size of a British


