
 		      INVERESK.                     269

den--once on the ballowed occasion of the Jubilee commemora-
tive of the auspicious reign of George III., in 1809, and again in
1830.*
   We ought to have mentioned in its proper place, that, in 1632,
Musselburgh was erected into a royal burgh by a charter under
the Great Seal but the Magistrates of Edinburgh, having enter-
ed into a compromise with the Magistrates here, a decreet of re-
duction of that charter was obtained from the Privy-Council, on
the 30th November of the same year.  From that time it has ex-
isted as a free burgh of regality, and exercised all the rights of a
royal one,--save that of sending a Member to Parliament; which
it also obtained at the great national change in 1832, when it was
joined in its Parliamentary privileges with Leith and Portobello.
Its ancient council consisted of eighteen members, ten from Mus-
selburgh and eight from Fisherrow, and from them two bailies and a
treasurer were annually elected. Two councillors went out an-
nually by vote of the council, and their places were supplied by
other two chosen in the same manner.  By their title-deeds the
magistrates are empowered to hold a Court of Record, and issue
precepts both on their decrees and registrations.  They are also
empowered to grant infeltments by hasp and staple more burgi ;
only their clerk is not entitled to a protocol record of these, as in
royal burghs.
   The revenues of the town are from feu-duties paid by the pro-
prietors of all the houses within its territories; from its lands,
which are considerable; from its quarries, its mills, and its har-
bour-duties.  The revenue derived from these sources is not less
than L. 2300 annually.  From this ample fund all public expen-
ses are liquidated--the streets are lighted and paved from it--
and the inhabitants have no local burdens.
   On the passing of the Reform Bill-which, by the bye, is said
to have been drawn up by Mr Thomas Drummond, then Secre-
tory to Lord Althorpe, who received his education at Mussel-
burgh--the set of the Burgh was altered; and it is now governed
by a Provost, with a Town-Council of twelve, out of which two
bailies and a treasurer are chosen.  The first provost of the burgh
under the new regime was William Aitchison, Esq. of Drummore,

<FOOTNOTE>Until within the last ten or fifteen years, an the annual payment of their rent
to the agent of the Duke of Buccleuch, an entertainment  was given by the magis-
trates, under the title of "the Hen Feast." It derived this title from the conside-
ration, that "the Kain fowls" due by the lessees of the burgh mills were served up
on this occasion.


