
514                       PERTHSHIRE.

delicate state of health, are often found in a short time to forget
all their ailments.
     Of the three tan-works now in operation, two belong to one es-
tablishment, which does business on a very extensive scale. Ht
employs more men, perhaps, in the processes of tanning and
leather-dreasing, and produces more leather, than any similar ma-
nufactory in the county, and its business appears to be daily ex-
tending. The corn, flour, and barley mills, (which are all in the
hands of one individual) are likewise on an extensive scale, and the
produce is chiefly sold at the Glasgow and Dundee markets. There
are two licensed victuallers; 2 distillers; and 5 malt barns at pre-
sent working. The grain malted may be computed at 120 quar-
ters per week, and it is consumed in making spirits from malt only.
The quantity of spirits produced is variable; but at present, it
may be stated at about 1400 gallons weekly. The quality is con-
sidered very good; and the greater part of it is exported, and sold
in the English markets.
     Crieff is the seat of the periodical excise collections for the dis-
rict. The following excise returns for the year ending January
1836 relate exclusively to Crieff, viz. licensed venders of ardent
spirits, 48; gallons sold out of stock by permit, 2058; gallons
retailed 14,622; revenue arising from duties on malt L. 5244,
12s. 10d.; and revenue arising from the duty on distillation
L. 7331 10s. 11d.
     The oil-mill appears to have constant employment, and must
produce a considerable quantity; but the two other oil-mills,
rpoken of in the former Statistical Account, have long ago ceased
to exist. The same thing is true of the paper-mill, the two mills
for carding and spining cotton, and the extensive bleachfields
with suitable machinery, which were then in operation. And,
though some female are still employed hn what is called tam-
bouring, the manufactory which was established in Crieff for this
porpose in 1792, and which gave employment to 30 girls from
eight to twelve years of age, is also not in existence.
     Tambouring, sowing plain and figured muslins, and filling
the weaver's pirns, are the most common occupations of those
industries females in humble life that reside in town; anf
those who are so employed are seldom able, in their old age,
to do any thing mote than earn a partial provision-the re-
sidue being made up either by the public charities, or else by
the private benevolence of the parish. Within the last two
years, a manufacturing establishment was dissolved, by the part-


