
88			AYRSHIRE.

The air is pure and bracing; and there are few places where the
blessing of health is enjoyed in a greater degree. No disease can
be said more particularly to prevail, and many of the inhabitants
attain to a good old age.
	Geoloqy and Mineralogy.-- The whole parish is covered, imme
diately below the soil, with beds of sand and gravel; and beneath
these, is a bed of clay, interspersed with numerous water-worn
stones, chiefly of augite-greenstone. On the surface of the
clay, there are numerous boulder-stones of considerable size,
which are also for the most part of the same rock. Be-
low these beds of sand, gravel, and clay, are found those stra-
tified rocks, known by the name of coal measures. The direction
of the dip is to the north, and of course the rise is to the south.
With these coal measures there is associated, at the southern
boundary of the parish, a bed of trap-rock, more than twenty feet
in thickness; and about 1000 yards north from the river, there
is found, immediately subjacent to it, a thin bed of coal, which it
has entirely reduced to a very hard cinder. But between this
point and the river, the trap suddenly changes its position, and is
found on the top of a second bed of coal ten fathoms lower than
the other, which has, in consequence, also been destroyed. This
second coal is the uppermost of the two workable seams of coal
known in this neigbourhood: and it is only in the situation now
mentioned, that it has been found destroyed by the trap. It
should also be noticed, that betwixt the northern and southern
parts of the parish, there is a separation of the minerals by a slip
or shift of the strata, which casts them up about sixty fathoms in
the northern or dip direction.
	Each of the two workable beds of coal contained in the mineral
field is nearly four feet in thickness. The upper is a soft coal:
the second is very hard, and of the description called plint coal.
The distance between the two beds is about twenty six fathoms, and
the intervening strata are alternations of bituminous or aluminous
shale and sandstone. But the uppermost of the two beds of coal
is not found in the northern part of the parish, having been thrown
out by the great shift of the strata already mentioned.
	The working of coal was formerly carried on to a great extent
in this parish, and during a period of sixty years. At one time
the profits of the freemen of the burgh from this source amounted
to more than. L. 300 per annum. But in 1832, the pits were
closed: both seams of coal being then exhausted. Trials have
been made at different times to discover, by boring, other beds of


