
                         ORMISTON.                            145

even handsome houses have been built. But on some of the farms,
Limey-lands, House of Muir, and East Paiston, the dwelling-houses
have been allowed to fall into disrepair. The fences in some places
are well kept, but in others they are very much neglected,-the
hedges going fast into decay, and the ditches and water courses
being completely choked up from want of cleaning.
   The parish roads have begun to be more attended to than they
were; and some of the tenants, by the improvements they have
made in them, have done an essential service to the parish, and at
the same time materially promoted their own interests.
   About twelve years ago, a thrashing-mill was erected by the te-
nant of the mill lands, which has been let out to the villagers, and
been of the greatest service to the place. Before that time, all the
grain about the village was thrashed by the flail, whereas very little
is now thrashed in that way. Several of the tenants have had thrash-
ing-mills erected within these few years; and there is now not a farm
of any consequence without one. The tenant of the Murrays, six
years ago, erected a steam engine upon that farm for thrashing his
crop, which answers the purpose remarkably well. In consequence
of these improvements, by which the operations of agriculture are
so much abridged, a want of employment in the course of the win-
ter is now beginning to be felt more severely by the labouring classes.
   Produce.-The average amount and value of raw produce yearly
raised in the parish, as nearly as can be conjectured, is as follows:

<TABLE>
White crops, 5730 imperial quarters, at L.1,10s. 4 1/2d.             L.8702   8  9
Beans and pease, 590          do.       L.1,14s. 6d.                   1017  15  0
Potatoes and turnips, 206 acres at L.10 per acre,                      2060   0  0
Clover grass and hay, 241 do. 180 stones per acre, at 6d. per stone,   1084  10  0
Pasture, 500 acres,                                                    1333   6  8
Produce of gardens,                                                     700   0  0

                                                                    L.14898   0  5

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Village.-The village of Ormiston is the only one in the parish
that deserves the name. It stands upon the north bank of the
Tyne, at an elevation of 276 feet above the level of the sea. It
consists chiefly of a broad street running east and west, with a row
of houses on each side, several of them of two stories. Some of
these houses are fitted for the accommodation of genteel families,
and are occasionally let. The principal houses have all excellent
gardens attached to them, several of which are surrounded with
stone walls, and stocked with fruit trees and all sorts of vegetables.
It Contains a population of 335, whereas about forty years ago,
when the last Statistical Account was published, the number of
   HADDINGTON.                  K


