
     Statistical Account

   Poor, Church, and Schools.-Though the heritors have very
wisely declined burdening their lands with a permanent assess-
ment, they make the poor an object of much attention.  They
hold both stated and occasional meetings, along with the mini-
ster and kirk-session, for enquiring into their state, and provid-
ing for their necessities.  They permit them to beg from door to
door within the parish, but not beyond the limits of it.  The
number at present upon the parish roll for stated or occasional
supplies is 30*, but generally they exceed 40.  The funds
for their support are,

<TABLE>

Part of the interest of Grandtully's mortification+   L. 20    0   0
Annual average produce of the Sunday collections
   in the church, fees of mortcloths, marriages,
   etc.                                                  22    0   7
Interest at 4 1/2 per cent. of a capital of 220           6   18   0

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

are just now taking place on the continent of Europe.  As to their religion,
scarce a fifteenth part of them are dissenters: The rest are of the communion
of the national church.  The bulk of the dissenters are Antiburgher Seceders.
There are 7 or 8 of the church of England, and scarce 3 Roman Catholics

*One of this number, a girl about 18 years of age, and not found in mind,
left the house where she is lodge, either in a fit of obstinancy or caprice upon a
cold evening in February last, and stayed in a wood during 5 nights and 5 days,
of the most intense frost within that month She laid herself down by the
side of a rill, some draughts of which were her only sustenance all this time
she returned of her own accord to the family she lives with, and was seized with
a great swelling in her limbs, which left her in a few weeks, and now she enjoys
perfect bodily health again.

+Toward, the beginning of the present century, John Stewart, Esq of
Grandtully mortified the sum of 20,000 merks Scotch, originally destined for
the support of 12 poor men on his estate, of the communion of the Episcopal
church of Scotland, and appointed his own heirs, and the heirs of 3 other
considerable families nearly allied to his own, administrators of this fund.


