
230                        LANARKSHIRE.

and supper. They met at four, and after tea played cards till
nine, when they supped. Their games were whist and quadrille.
The gentlemen attended these parties, and did not go away with
the ladies after supper, but continued to sit with the landlord,
drinking punch, to a very late hour. The gentlemen frequently
had dinner parties in their own houses, but it was not till a much
later period that the great business of visiting was attempted to be
carried on by dinner parties. The guests at these earlier dinner
parties were generally asked by the entertainer, upon' Change, from
which they accompanied him, at same time sending a message to
their own houses, that they were not to dine at home. The late
Mr Cunningham of Lainshaw, meeting the Earl of Glencairn at
the Cross in this way, asked him to take pot-luck with him, and
having sent immediate notice to his wife of the guest invited, en-
tertained him with a most ample dinner. Some conversation tak-
ing place about the difference between dinners in Glasgow and
Edinburgh, Lord Glencairn observed, that the only difference he
knew of was, that in Glasgow the dinner was at sight, while in
Edinburgh it was at fourteen days date. These dinner parties
usually terminated with hard drinking, and gentlemen, in a state
of intoxication, were in consequence to be met with at most even-
ing parties, and in all public places.
	"The dinner hour about the year 1770 was two o'clock: imme-
diately after that, it came to three o'clock, and gradually became
later and later, till about 1818 it reached six o'clock. The first
instance of a dinner of two courses in the neighbourhood of Glas-
gow was about the year 1786. Mrs Andrew Stirling of Drumpel-
lier, who made this change in the economy of the table, justified
herself against the charge of introducing a more extravagant style
of living, by saying, that she had put no more dishes on her table
than before, but had merely divided her dinner, in place of intro-
ducing her additional dishes in removes.
	"Up to the middle of the century, commercial concerns, whether
for manufactures or foreign trades,-were in general carried on by
what might be termed Joint Stock Companies of credit: six or eight
responsible individuals having formed themselves into a company,
advanced each into the concern a few hundred pounds, and bor-
rowed on the personal bonds of the company whatever farther ca-
pital was required for the undertaking.  It was not till commer-
cial capital, at a later period, had grown up in the country, that


