
                           HALKIRK.                          79

The distance from the church to Achpheadair (Peter's-field) and
Knockglass, the extremities on the west and north-west, is from five
to six miles and a-half; the distance to Banniskirk and Achchipster
the extremities on the east and south-east, is three miles and a-half
to the former, and six and a-half to the latter; and the distance to
Dalghanachain, Glutt, and Rumsdale, the utmost extremity to the
south, is from twenty to twenty-four miles. The church was built in
1753 and underwent a substantial repair in 1899. It accommo-
dates about 756 individuals; 18 sittings are set apart for the poor
by the heritors, and about 20 are provided for them by the minis-
ter and session, by placing benches in wide passages. Till after
the last repair of the church, none of the heritors rented their pro-
portion of sittings in the church; some of them have since let the
sittings to the tenants, and others have not. A few farmers have
Claimed and obtained the same right to a seat in the church that
they had previous to the repair. The highest rent charged for a
sitting is 4s. and the lowest Is. The manse was built about the
same time with the church, and underwent some repairs in 1823.
The extent of the glebe is from 7 1/2 to &c imperial acres; this in-
cludes the site of the manse, the garden, &c. The annual-value
of the whole is from L.8 to L.10. The stipend is 15 chalders
of victual, half meal and half barley, and L.10 for communion
elements. There is a missionary employed in the most distant
parts of the parish, who is partly supported by the Committee for
managing the Royal Bounty, and partly by the inhabitants of the
mission district of the parish. The missionary has three preach-
ing stations-one at Achrenny in this parish; one at Halsary in
the parish of Watten; and the third at Halladale in the parish of
Reay. To the Halsary district there is attached a part of the pa-
rish of Latheron. The population in this parish within the bounds
of the mission is 784; these are very much scattered, and are
often prevented from attending the missionary's preaching by the
river and other streams, which, especially during the winter and
spring, are so much swollen, and that perhaps on the day the
missionary is to preach in the district, that it is impossible for
many to attend, and very likely they will not hear sermon again
till the missionary is there three weeks thereafter. This produces
great evils,-it begets indifference to the means of grace, and at
last, in too man cases, a total neglect of these means. This is
not to be attributed to the missionary, nor, humanly speaking, to
the people, but to the system on which the mission is established;


