
        20                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

        tant. The only village is New Reay. A mail-coich runs be-
        tween Thurso and Tongue, and passes here every alternate day;
        and there is a'post-office at Reay and at Melvich.
            A very neat and commodious barbour has lately been built in
        the bay of Sandside by Major Innes, on which upwards of L. 3000-
        have already been expended. While it encourages and promotes
        trade and commerce, it is also of great advantage to the herring-
        fishing.
            Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church was built in I739, is at
        present in good repair, and conveniently situated for the greater part
        of the population. It affords accommodation for 650 sitters. All
        the sittings are free, except in one gallery, built out of the poor's
        fund, and rented for behoof of the poor of the parish The manse-
        was built in 178& The extent of the grebe is from 6 to 7 acres.
        It lies at a mile's distance from the manse, and lets at L.5 Sterlin
        but there is also a small croft contiguous to the manse, which may be
        worth about L.2. The amount of stipend is 190 bolls, I firlot, 21
        pecks grain, with L. 60 Scots, allowance for communion elements.
        A missionary preaches every third Sabbath at Dispolly in Strathal-
        ladale, supported partly by the Royal Bounty, and partly the
        people. There is a catechist, too, supported in the same manner,
        and elected by the kirk-session. We have no Dissenting nor Se.
        ceding chapels, nor indeed any Dissenters. Divine service on
        the Lord's-day is well attended.
            Education.-There are five schools in the parish-the parochial
        school at New Reay, an Assembly's school at Melvich, and three-
        supported by individual subscription. The branches of instruction
        generally taught in them, are, English reading, writing, arithmetic,
        and English grammar, and in the parochial and Assembly schools,
        Greek, Latin, mathematics, geography, &c. The sal-ary of the
        parochial 'schoolmaster is the maximum. The number ofyoung be--
        tween the ages of, six and fifteen-year's who can neither read nor
        write is about 54, and the number of those upwards of 6fteen years
        unable to read or write is about 200. The people in general are
        alive to the benefits of education, and there is a great and visible
        change in their conduct and morals since the diffusion of know-
        ledge became so general. That pernicious attachment. to the
        drinking of rituou liquors, which formerly prevailed, has now
        been in a great measure abandoned.
            Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number.of persons
        receiving parochial aid is at present upwards of 100, and average
        				3


