
8		      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

its southern bank about 90 feet in height, which may be traced al-
most in a direct line from Loch Ness to the town of Inverness, be-
hind which it turns to the eastward, and stretches along the edge
of the Moray Frith to Campbelltown, and thence through Nairn
and Morayshires, nearly to the estuary of the river Spey.
  Westward of Inverness, a terrace bank of the same elevation
encircles Loch Beauly, and traces of it may be seen along the
Ross-shire coast as far down as Fortrose and Rosemarkie.  The
breadth of the terrace at Inverness is about a mile and a-half, and
its elevation corresponds very nearly with the summit level of the
Great Glen, which situated at Laggan, between the lakes Oich
and Lochy.  Marine remains have been discovered invarious places
at the base of this bank, which is about ten feet above the pre-
sent high water-mark, and its summit perhaps indicates the height
at which the sea at one time stood throughout the whole basin of
the Moray Frith.
  On the west bank of the River Ness this regularly formed terrace
bank does not exist.  There the gravelly materials were more con-
fosedly thrown together, and, in fact, from the end of Loch Doch-
four, (the lower basin of Loch Ness,) a series of undulating knolls,
composed of sand and gravel, proceeds, which terminate in the
beautifully shaped ridge of Tor a' Bhean, which is nearly 300 feet
in height, and lies about a mile to the south-west of Inverness.
  Between this ridge and Craig Phadrich on the north, a wide bay
or opening appears to have been formed by currents of water with
gravelly deposits; but that the cavity now existing was at one time
filled up, seems clear from the occurrence of a broad shelf or ter-
race lying near its upper edge, behind the farmhouses of Kinmy-
lies and Charlestown, at an elevation of 330 feet above the sea.
  The house of Dunain stands on a similar terrace to the west-
ward, but which is not quite so high as that just alluded to.
  Detached from all other eminences, but in front of Tor a'Bhean,
and in the line where the Great Glen meets the recess or bay just
described, stands the insulated and very conspicuous bill of Tom-
nahurich, which'is as interesting from its singular position and re-
gular form, as from the important occurrences in the history of the
parish with which its name is connected. It was in ancient days used
both as a watch or ward hill, and a place for dispensing justice;
and, being the great gathering hill of the fairies in the north, its
broad and level summit and smooth green sides waving with hare-


