
			DALRYMPLE.                        279

ments through which it passed, yet no Roman camp has yet been
discovered in Ayrshire. Their trinkets have been found in various
parts of this extensive shire. They had erected their villas along
the fine shore of the Clyde Frith, from Kellyburn to Irvine; and
on this coast the remains of their baths have been discovered."
	Roman Vessels.--A tripod of Roman bronze, and understood
to be one of those used by the priest in pouring libations on the
sacrifice, or otherwise about the altar, was found in a drained part
of Lindston Loch, near the Roman road, about fifty years ago;
and a pitcher of earthen-ware, like that represented in prints, in
the hand of the woman of Samaria, at the well at Sychar, was
found at Perclewan, on the line of the same road in 1833. Both
have handles; the tripod has also a spout, and the pitcher in glaz-
ed, and of a greenish colour, and has the figure of a man's face
and hands on the front, in relief.
	British Fortlets.--On a ridge of a rising ground, about three
miles in length, forming the boundary between the valley of Dal-
rymple and the low road from Ayr to Maybole, are the remains
of three British fortlets.  They are all circular, and surrounded
by trenches, and contain each about fifty falls of ground. The
trenches were filled with a rich black mould, resembling moss-
earth; and on its being removed some years ago for the purpose
of manure, human skulls, bones, and deers' horns were found.
	Coins.--About ten years ago, some silver coins were found in a
grave in the church-yard here. Two of them, which came into
the writer's possession, are of the reign of James I. of Scotland,
(1424-36,) and apparently half-groats. The one is of the Edin-
burgh mint, and the other was struck at Stirling. They bear on
the obverse, within a rose, the head of the sovereign, crowned,
full-faced, with the sceptre on the right. Legend, JACOBUS. DEI.
GRATIA. REX. SCOTORUM. On the reverse, a cross with three
pellets, and a fleur-de-lis alternately in the quarters. Legend,
DOMINUS. PROTECTOR. MEUS. ET. LIBERATOR, MEUS, and within
a dotted circle, the first, VILLA. EDINBURGI, the other VILLA.
STREVEVLI.
   	There were also four silver pennies, of Edward I. and III. of
England, found in a ploughed field near the village in 1835. The
largest has on one side, EDW. R. ANGL. DNS. HYB, and on the re-
verse, CIVITAS. LONDON. Two of them have on the reverse, CI-
VITAS. CANTOR, and the fourth, CIVITAS. DUREME. *

<FOOTNOTE>The coins, Roman vessels, a spear found in Barbieston holm, and part of a deer's.


