
390                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Restoration, in the fifteenth year of his age; and, after complet-
ing his education, took the degree of A. M. Having gone to
England, he was entrusted with the care of several young men
of quality, with whom he travelled on the continent. One of his
pupils was the eldest son of the Earl of Berkley. He was afterwards
appointed by Charles II. preceptor to the Duke of St Albans, and
nominated Secretary of Chelsea Hospital. This office he held
during the reign of James II., William and Mary, Queen Anne,
and George I. He died in 1731, in the eighty-sixth year of his
age. About the year 1725, he contributed about L. 1400 Sterling
towards repairing the College, and furnishing additional books to
the library. Besides making this liberal donation, he founded two
bursaries,-one in philosophy, and another in theology,-a short
time before his death. He left his library, partly to the presbytery
of Inverness, of which his father was a member, and partly to the
College, and gave the presentation to the bursaries to the magis-
strates of Inverness, with concurrence of the presbytery. By the
careful and skilful administration of the Professors of King's Col-
lege, Dr Fraser's mortification has so greatly increased, that addi-
tional bursaries have been established upon it.
   Lord President Forbes is more connected with the parish
as a proprietor than by residence. He was born at Bunchrew
in Kirkhill, which, for more than thirty years, was his favourite
residence, and the place where be pursued his studies and wrote
his works. It is greatly to be regretted, that no memoir deserv-
ing of the name exists of a man to whom Sir James Mackintosh
pays this noble testimony in his review of the Culloden Papers:*
" There are various lords and lairds who make but a shabby figure
in this collection. But our great pride and Consolation is in the
ever-clear honour and open heart of him to whom they address
themselves. For Duncan Forbes no descendant will ever have
to blush or feel ashamed; and the perusal of this book will prove
that Scotland, even since she ceased to be a separate kingdom, has
had at least one statesman whose principles were as pure as his
understanding was enlightened; and whose concern for his coun-
try was not so much as suspected to be quickened by an regard
to his own power or emoluments."
   We wish we could mention Sir James Mackintosh himself as a
native of the parish. His parents and ancestors, for many genera-
tions, lived at Contiage, although the family property was Kylochy,

                          Edinburgh Review.


