
           1100                            PERTHSHIRE.


                                   II.-CIVII, 1419TORY.
                Historical Notices.-The only known account of the parish of
              Port, previously to the very short one in the former Statistical Ac-
              count, is that by Alexander Graham, Esq. of Duchroy, It was,
              as stated by the author, composed in the year 1724, and, along
              with accoonts of sixteen others of the parishes around, is inserted
              in the valuable collections of the late Walter MacFarlan of Mac-
              farlan, deposited in the Advocates'  Library, Edinburgh.
                Timothy Pont's Map of the Lennox, from a survey made early in
              the seventeenth century, includes the parish of Port, and part of
              that of Aberfoyle, neither of which belonged to that ancient divi-
              sion of Scotland.
                A much more particular map of the parish of Port, surveyed
              above half a century, since by James Stobie, along with the rest
              of Perthshire, and with Clackmannanshire, was soon after pub-
              lished, and is a model of minute correctness.
                Some letters and other papers, illustrative of local antiquities,
              and preserved, amongst others, in the archives of the Earls of Men-
              teith, and latterly in the house of Gartmore, have been in print
              since 1815.
                In regard to the early history of this part of the vale of Mon-
              teitb, one of the points occurring for consideration is the site of a
              town of the Picts, as stated by an English historian, the venerable
              Bede, in the earlier part of the eighth century.  This topic is na-
              turally suggested by the stream of Guidie, being that by which
              the lake of Inchumahome discharges its superfluous waters into the
              Forth eight miles east of the efflux. To claim the site af the an-
              cient town of Quidie to the parish now treated of, is no part of
              the writer's intention.   It may, however, be, from a concurrence of
              circumstances, inferred, that Gindie was situate near a stream
              which, at even the present hour, bears its name.    Correspond-
              ing to Bede's intimation of the extent of  Firths of Forth
              and Clyde, and their joint intersection of Britain till each of
              the parts could be said to be nearly contiguous, is the tradition
              above-mentioned, that the eastern arm of the ocean anciently ex-
              tended along the vale of Monteith as far as Gartmore.  The stream
              of Guidie, indeed, till drained artificially, which it was at no very
              distant epoch, formed alake, and, in old weits, is styled "the lake
              of Guidie." -It hence occurs, as not only not unlikely but most
              highly probable, that the Pictish city of Guidie was situated near
              the water hearing the same name.  That no vestige of a city should


