	
	976                   FIFESHIRE
	
	the great loss of the parish none of the landowners are resident
	The houses of In-nergelly and Rennyhill are the only residences
	in the parish. but have not been occupied by their proprietors
	for two or three years. They are modern buildings, and afford
	good accommodation.
	   Parochial Registers.-The oldest parochial register is dated
	1586, and covnrnences about the time when James Melville en-
	tered on the work of the ministry at Kilrenny. The registers
	appear to have been pretty correctly kept; but some of them
	are so tarnished and chafed as to reader dates often uncertain
	and the reading imperfect. About 1580, and several years af-
	terwards, one minister, William Clarke, and after him James
	Melville, had the superintendence of West Anstrutber, Pitten-
	weem, Abercrombie, and Kilrenny, officiating at each in rotation,
	the parishes having their respective kirk-sessions ; and when, on
	any particular occasion, they met in a body, it was called the
	Assembly; but their transactions were marked in the same book.
	Latterly, and for a considerable period, they have been kept with
	great accuracy.
	   Antiquities.-On a slightly elevated portion of ground to the
	west of the village of Kilrenny, there is an upright stone with
	some rude engraving somewhat resembling the mariner's com-
	pass, called Skelth, or Skeigh, or Scatlie stone; but there is
	no satisfactory tradition concerning it. It may possibly have been
	erected to commemorate some conflict which took place during
	the invasion of the East Neuk by the Daties.  There is another
	upright stone on the farm of East Piteortbie, about five or six
	feet above ground, but when or on what occasion erected is not
	known. It bears no date and no characters, and there is no tra-
	dition concerning it.
	   There is another eminence to the eastward of the village, which
	is called Capelochy Castle, near to the shore. And it has been
	conjectured from the appearance of the low land on the north
        side, bearing marks of having been under water, that the emi-
	nence, at one time, had been surrounded by water, and hence its
	name, Capelochy Castle.
	   Thereis a farm adjoining, which bears the name of Calplie,
	which is probably a' corruption of Capelochy. The ground which
	the castle occupied is now under the plough, and very lately an
	immense quantity of stones were dug up, and among them was
                                    4


