
676                            LANARKSHIRE.

What Middleton says of the transaction is evidently borrowed from
Spotswood.  In a comparatively modern publication * it is stated
that the "cathedral was preserved at the Reformation from a rab-
ble that came to destroy it from the country, by the townsmen, who,
though zealous reformers, listened to thejudicious remonstrances of
the chief magistrate: "I am for pulling down the High Church,'
said he, ' but not till we have first built a new one.'"  This is
another version of the affair.  According to Spotswood, it was
not a rabble from the country, but the magistrates themselves,
who were prevented from destroying thd cathedral, when, by tuck
of drum, they had collected workmen for the purpose.  There
must, however, have been, one would think, some foundation
for the story.  On the 7th of March 1587, "The commissioneris
appoyntit be ye kingis maiestie anet yair jugemetis to be gevin for
reparation of ye hie kirk, and haill brethrene of ye kirk and ses-
sioun of Glasgw thinkis gud yat ye lache stepill + be tane down to
repair ye mason work in ye said kirk, and bell and knok be trans-
portit to ye hiche stepill, and yat the kirk haif ane quoynzie left
at ye stepill foresaid for relief yairof." ++  Dr M'Crie, who found
this minute quoted, but not quite correctly, in Wodrow's MS.
Life of Mr David Weemes, asks with characteristic acuteness, if
this could be the order which occasioned the riot referred, to by
Spotswood?  "If so,"' He says, S " it happened ten years after
Melville left Glasgow."  What strengthens the conjecture of Dr
M'Crie is the fact, that the "lache stepill" or western tower was
actually not taken down, and that on the 5th of February 1589,
(OS.) the session ordered it to be inspected, "and ye decayt
places yairin to be sichtit and repairit"  It is also worthy of no-
tice, that, on the 25th of April 1588, the session appointed certain
<FOOTNOTE>
various instances of misrepresentation where Melville is concerned.  And in one of
the original letters prefixed to Dr Burnd's edition of the "History of the Sufferings
Of the Church of Scotland," we find Wodrow (p. xxi.) expresing a wish that the
unlucky turns that Spottiswood gives to matters, and the facts which, as a complete
party man, he suppresseth, were to be taken notice of, and his disingenuity exposed."
          Newte's Tour in England and Scotland. p. 67. London, 1791.  That respec-
table personage, Andrew Fairservice, likewise gives an account of what took place
on this occasion, which, though it is a little more particular, is no doubt equally au-
thentic with the others-Waverley Novels, (Rob  Roy,) Vol. viii. pp. 29-30.
          This resolution must be regarded as proof of the good taste of the parties con-
cerned.  Mr A. Maclellan, in his interestinq " Essay on the Cathedral Church of
Glasgow," (Glasgow, 1833, 4to, p. 62,) says, regarding the laigh steeple and the
consistory house, that "placed in the most conspicious situation, on approaching the
cathedral, they thrust their ungainly forms between it and the spectator.-Their ar-
chitecture marks no period nor display any thing but the poor ambition which could
be contented with creating even deformity."
          Records of Glasgow Kirk Session.
          Life of Melville, Vol. i. p. 440.


