
               FORGAN.                                 507

ing the flood it is completely salt. The current is strong, parti-
cularly during ebb-tide, when it runs about four miles an hour.
Springs of excellent quality are found in abundance throughout
the parish.
     Geology and Mineralogy.-As forming part of the extensive
tract of country that ranges from Alloa to the sea at St Andrews
and Ferry-port-on-Craig, the district in which this parish is situ-
ated is intersected by a series of trap hills of various elevations.
Sandstone and sandstone conglomerate form the basis; and the
strata being elevated by the intrusion of the trap, rest upon it with
a general inclination to the south-east. The greater part of the
parish consists of a number of bills of greeiastone, which is of a
compact fine-grained quality, and of a dark colour, from, a pre-
ponderance of augite. Along the batiks of the Tay, rocks of
amygdaloidal greenstone prevail. The base is an irregular, rather
friable and porous greenstone, with numerous nodules, some com-
posed of a greenish earth, others of calcareous crystals, and a great
proportion of quartz, assuming the forms of agates, with beauti-
ful concentric lamellar structure.
    Soil.-The soil, being formed in a great measure from the de-
bris of the trap rocks, is generally of an'excellent and fertile na-
ture. The greater part is good black loam and clayey earth.
Some portions of it being light and gravelly, are better suited for
sheep pasture than for grain crops. InAhe diluvial soil, partieu-
larly in the western districts of the parish, there are numerous
transported masses of rock or boulders, consisting partly of frag-
ments of the surrounding trap hills, and partly of primitive rocksP,
which must have beeq conveyed by a powerful current from the,
north-west or Grampian range.

              II-CIVIL HiSTORY.
   No history of the parish is known to exist ; and the notices of
it in Sibbald's History of Fife, and in Martin's Reliquiae Divi An-
dreae
 are extremely meagre.
Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are,,,

         Henry Stewart, Esq. of St Fort, resident,    valued rent, L. 2349  6 8 Scotch.
         William Berry, Esq. of Tayfield, do.             1082              3 4
         David Gillespie, Esq, of Kirkton, non-resident'  711               0 0
         The Right Hon. Lord Dundas, Newton, do            640              10 0
         Henry Scrymgeour Wedderburn, Esq. of Wormit, do   201              0  0
         John Hay, Esq. of Morton,  do.                    164              6  8

The estate of St Fort belonged for several hundred vears. till
the beginning of the last century, to a family, of the oanw Of
Nairne, who as appears from. Dou&W Peerage and Sibbal&&


