
808                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

which are said still to remain in manuscript.  Two pictures of
him remain, (believed to be by Jamieson of Aberdeen,) one in
Marischal College, the other at Parkhill, the residence of the
present Mr Gordon of Pitlurg.
   Parochial Registers.-As to parochial registers, the sessional
record of doctrine and discipline is extant, and regularly kept from
1698, with some fragments so far back as 1630 and 1640.  Re-
gisters of marriages and baptisms are also kept, and extend from
1698; but the latter by no means comprehends all the births. *
   The deficiency of our session records is in so far supplied by
our presbytery registers.  These begin five years after the insti-
tution of presbyteries (1592), the first meeting of the Presby-
tery of Ellon being held, as it is expressed in the record, what on the
penult day of November 1597." It may be noticed, what is known
in other cases, that in our Presbytery records the beginning
of the year was reckoned from the vernal equinox, or 1st of
April, O.S., and continued to be so till the year 1600, when
it commences with the 1st of January.  The eight parishes of
which this Presbytery consists previously belonged to the Pres-
bytery of Aberdeen.  From our records chiefly the following list
of the ministers of Logie-Buchan is made up. 1. Mr Alexander Ar-
buthnot, settled in 1568. 2. Mr John Read, probably on Mr Ar-
buthnot's death in 1583. 3. Mr Thomas Mitchel, 1622. + 4. Mr
Patrick Guthrie, 1626. ++  5. Mr William Seton, 1635.  6. Mr
George Buchan, 1671.  7. Mr Robert Udny, 1699.  8. Mr John
Rose, 1726.  9. Mr William Paterson, 1774.  10. Mr George
Cruden, the present incumbent, in 1817.
   The first of these ministers, Mr Alexander Arbuthnot, was by
far the most distinguished.  Though the honour of his ministry
has been assigned by Mr Kennedy and some others to the parish
of Logiepert, yet the highest authorities concur with Dr M"Crie,

<FOOTNOTE>I would beg to suggest, that the registration of births and baptisms, of mar-
riages and burials, shoUld be connected with the population Act of 1800, to which
they naturally belong; that the entries in the registers should be gratis, but the ex-
tracts from them chargeable; and that every tenth year, when the schoolmaster or
session-clerk makes the population returns to Parliament, he should be required also
to give in upon oath an extract of the number of births, burials, &c. for the like pe-
riod, attested annually, if thought necessary, by the presbytery or officiating clergyman,
and that he should be handsomely paid for each entry by the State, By the hope of re-
ward, and the dread of an oath, regular registration would, in my humble opinion,
be secured in an inifinitley simpler and less expensive manner, than by the clumsy Re-
gistration Establishment Bill, not many years ago proposed to Parliament.  A du-
plicate of the register, when filled up, to be deposit with the county records.
     Mr Mitchel, previously minister of Udny, and afterwards minister of Turniff,
received a presentation to Logie-Buchan, but was not inducted.
     Mr Guthrie was also Sub-Principal of King's College.


