
340                	ROSS AND CROMARTY.

Eminent Characters.-In a parish, where, till within a compara-
tively recent period, the prevailing, and indeed almost the only lan-
guage in use was the Gaelic, few instances can be expected of indivi-
duals rising to literary eminence.  Among that class of the people,
however, which an acquaintance with the English language enabled
to keep pace with the march of modern improvement, such instances
have not been wanting.  Few names, we believe, connected with this
part of the country are more deserving of notice, than that of Mr
James Fraser, one of the ministers of Alness.  This eminent individual
was born in the year 1700, and was the son of the Rev. John Fraser,
also a minister of the parish, and well known on account of the suf-
ferings which he endured for his steady adherence to the principles
and constitution of the Church of Scotland, during the persecu-
tion of 1679 or 1680.  The Rev. James Fraser, in whose history
we are more immediately interested, was very young when his
father died, and could not, therefore, be immediately appointed to
the parish, but on the death of Mr Daniel Mackilligen, who was
the immediate successor of his father, lie was inducted, being then
twenty-six years of age.  He appears to have been a man as much
distinguished for the talents necessary to eminence as a public
character, as for the virtues which rendered him so much esteem-
ed as a private Christian.  For his literary eminence, he was, how-
ever, chiefly indebted to his great strength of judgment, and
acuteness in Biblical criticism.  This talent he displayed in a cri-
tical work on Sanctification ; and in a sketch of his life, prefixed
to the work, we find him spoken of in the following terms.  As it
will serve in some degree to point out the nature of the work, we
may quote the words. "His distinguished abilities as a sacred
critic appear in the following treatise, from the strong and mas-
terly manner in which he has examined some of the most eminent
Socinian and Arminian commentators.  The judicious readers will
easily see that the author's understanding was quick, clear, and
penetrating, his judgment solid, and his learning very extensive.
His public ministrations were highly edifying, and contained rich
entertainment for the learned as well as the unlearned."
   The next individual who appears particularly deserving of notice
in the biographical history of this parish, is General Sir Hector
Munro, K.B.  He was one of the principal proprietors when the
former Statistical Account was written; and rendered himself fa-
mous by his exploits in India during the war which was carried
on there towards the close of the eighteenth century.


