
298                          ARGYLESHIRE.

Airdmeanach, the middle point or middle quarter, and received
this name from its lying in the middle between the poilits of Ross
and Tresnish.
   Topographical Appearances.-Taking the parish in general,
it presents but a barren appearance, although, on a more nar-
row inspection, much fertile land and kindly and sweet pasture
agreeably surprise the inquirer.  The greatest part is hilly, and
adapted rather for grazing than for raising crops.  Part is low
and flat, consisting of heath, green pasture, rocks, and arable
ground.  Ross in particular is flat, excepting where it marches
with Brolas, and the greatest part of its surface is moss and heath.
Its arable land is formed of clayey and sandy soils; but where it
marches with Brolas, the soil is thin and light.  The grass is
in general soft and good, and even the heath of this district is con-
sidered good feeding for cattle.  The arable land is very fertile.
Brolas, rising in a gentle ascent from Lochscridain, has a north-
ern exposure.  The greatest parts of the surface consist of heath
and rocks, and the soil light, dry, and rather barren; but that part
of this district which faces the south, and is called Carsaig and
Inimore, is more fertile, and produces good soft grass for pasture.
Airdmeanach, facing the south, rises to a considerable height from
Lochscridain, and in surface and soil similar to that of Brolas.
   Mountain Ranges, &c.-The only mountains are those which
divide the parish from that of Torosay.  The most remarkable of
these is Benmore, reaching to an altittide of 3097 feet above the
level of the sea, and is the highest land in Mull or the adjacent
islands. This is a beautifully formed mountain, and of a conical
figure.  According to St Fond, it resembles much the famous
volcanic mountain Vesuvius.  Its summit presents all the appear-
ance of a crater, and richly repays the traveller-whose curiosity
hag led him to toil up the ascent.  The writer of this narrative
has been on the top on a fine day, with a serene sky, and the at-
mosphere uncommonly clear.  The emotions and feelhngs in the
mind of a beholder arising from the grandeur of this scene, cannot
be excited by any description.  As far as the eye can reach, there
is a prospect of land and sea.  Here, spread out as it were at
the beholder's feet, he sees Staffa, Iona, the Treshnish Isles, Coll
and Tirie, Monk, Rum, Skye, &c. and the headland of Ardna-
murchan; and nearer, Ulva, Gometra, Colonsa, Eorsa, and
other objects, beautifully diversifying the broad face of the west-
ern sea, distinct as in a map.  While, to the eastward and south-


