
104                        ORKNEY.

mixture of shell-sand found in its soil, and partly also to there
being proper declivities for the water discharging itself into the
sea.
   There are but three bays; the South bay, Ness bay (on the
south-east side), and Linket bay (on the east.)  None of these
are safe anchorages, and, excepting in, mild weather, no vessel can
remain upon the coast.  The chief headlands are,Twingas, Strom-
ness, Brides-ness, and Dennis-ness.
    Zoology.-The fish which are found on the shores or in the neigh-
bouring seas, are such as are common to all Orkney.  Those which
are most frequently caught for home consumption, are siliks and
cuthes,-the coal-fish, I believe, in the first and second years of their
existence; and those which are caught for the market, are lobsters
and cod.  The Shelky Skerry mentioned above is much frequented
by the great seal or Placa major.  There are always some about it;
but in winter, great numbers occasionally arrive from the north seas,
and sometimes  bring forth their young upon the rock.  The islanders
are on the watch, and often secure the strangers by going out in
a midnight expedition with clubs, on which occasions they have
been known to kill as many as three score.  A successful expedi-
tion of this kind is a matter of no small rejoicing, as a good sup-
ply of oil is obtained from the seal.
   A great variety of birds frequent the island, but none of them are
of a rare description, unless perhaps the red-necked phalarope
(Tringa hyperborea), which visits North Ronaldsha in consider-
able numbers about the middle of June, and departs early in Sep-
tember.  It makes its nest among the reeds about the lochs, and
lays four eggs of a dingy olive colour with brown spots.  It is pretty
tame, and allows its motions, which are very graceful, to be observed
at a small distance.  After north-east gales of some continuance,
many strange birds are occasionally found, such as the goatsucker,
the golden-crested wren, the cuckoo, and the snowy owl.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The island is wholly the property of William Traill, Esq.
of Woodwick, who, however, does not reside upon it.  It appears
anciently to have been divided into three nearly equal part,-tbe
mounds which formed the division, and which are of a considerable
height and breadth, being still almost uninjured.  The only other
things which bear the appearance of antiquity, are the remains
(all under ground) of an old castle, called still Burrion Castle, and
a large erect flat stone, rising ten or twelve feet perpendicular


