
                      FORTINGAL.                           549

those who heard them repeated at the time; but while the worst
of them were recollected, as generally happens, the best were al-
lowed to escape the memory.
   Allan Stewart of Innerchadden, who lived much about the same
time, and was also a proprietor in the parish, was a poet no less
eminent than the chief of the brave Clann Donnachaidh (Robert-
sons) above-mentioned. He, as well as Strowan, shared in the
common calamities of those who took up arms in favour of Prince
Charles in 1745. Their houses were burnt, `nd their properties
plundered.
   Dougal Buchanan was another eminent character connected with
the district. Though not a native, he resided here for a consider-
able time after the middle of the last century, as teacher on the
establishment of the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian
Knowledge, at Kinloch Rannoch,-a valuable man in his day, and
highly useful in enlightening the people in the knowledge of the
truths of the Gospel. In his manners among his intimate ac-
quaintance, he was affable, free, and jocular; he was consequent-
ly much esteemed, both by the gentlemen and common people of
the district, who, when they had not an opportunity of hearing ser-
mon from the parish minister, flocked to him upon Sabbaths, when
he read and expounded the Scriptures to them. He was a severe
disciplinarian, feared, but at the same time beloved, insomuch,
that the people offered to raise a fund to send him to College, so
as to get him licensed to preach the Gospel, and become their pas-
tor in the district on the Royal Bounty; but, from somd cause or
other, the plan was not followed out. Dougal Buchanan was the
author of a small but valuable collection of sacred poems, in the
Gaelic language,-which displays poetical talent of no ordinary
kind. They are to this day admired, and read with benefit by every
Christian who understands the language. He composed several
songs on various subjects, that were never published.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, John Stewart Men-
zies, Esq. of Foss and Chesthill; Ronald Menzies, Esq. of Cul-
dares; Major-General Sir Archibald Campbell, Bart. of Garth;
Francis Garden Campbell, Esq. of Troup and Glenlyon; The
Most Noble the Marquess of Breadalbane; General Robertson; of
Strowan; Sir Neil Menzies of that Ilk, Bart.; Colonel John
M'Donald of Dalchosnie, C. B. 92d Highlanders; Messrs Stew-
art of Innerchadden, of Lasentullich, and of Crossmount.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in the parochial re-


