136                             ORKNEY.

Toftsness, the nortbermost point of Sanday, appears to have
been a well-peopled settlement, from the numerous ruins which are
still to be seen.   The greater part of the Ness has been enclosed
with a chain of forts, which were connected by a stone-wall.
Within this wall, the ground has been covered with buildings of
various sizes :-circles of stones set on edge, with, frequently,
an upright central stone, are still to be seen, -and numerous graves
lined with flat stones, and also surrounded by small circles of stones.
Several of these graves have been opened ; some of them contain
human bones,-others contain onlvasbes; in many of them, deers'
horns have been found. One of the forts, on. -the wall, was ex-
amined a few years ago.  It measured, inside, 16 feet in length,
and 6 in width ; the walls were 8 feet in height, and from 4 to 5
feet in thickness; at the height of 6 feet from the foundation, the
stones, inside, were laid so as the upper stone overlapped the one
immediately beneath, thus contracting the opening above, which
was roofed over with large flat stones.  All the stones in this build-
ing were large flat stones from the beach.  The wall was regular
and firmly built.  There was no clay nor cement of any kind.  A
deer's horn was found in this building, and several fragments of
bones.
11 From the quantity of sand blown over these remains, it is al-
most, indeed altogether, impossible to give any accurate deserip-
tion of them ; but, from their extent, it is evident that many
people, and a great deal of time, must have been occupied in their
erection.  Some account of this place appeared in an Edinburgh
newspaper, several years ago.
Tressness, on the east-side of the island, contains several tu-
muli, which have never been examined.  They are situated close
by the sea, at convenient landiDg-places.         The largest of then),
called Wassa, is built of large flat stones ; it is about 15 feet in
height, and upwards of 180 feet in circumference at the base.
11 Elsness appears to have been an extensive settlement, On
the northern extremity of this cape, there is a burgh or fort called
Augmund's Howe.  It is DOW in ruins, and overgrown with grass
and weeds.  It is situated close by the beach, and has been sur-
rounded to landward, by -a circle of upriobt stones.  On the east
side, where the ground is low, there is a semicircular terrace, the
outer edge of which is formed also by stones set upright.  The
height of the fort is about 18 feet.
From Augmund's Howe, there may be traced the remains of


