
332                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

male line, which has long ago become extinct, by Macleod of
Raasay. They at one time had extensive possessions and sway;
but forfeited the greater portion of their lands in the reign of
James VI. The Macleods of Dunvegan have been more fortunate,
and have retained, as already observed, through the lapse of many
ages, and through various vicissitudes of fortune, all their original
possessions, except what they voluntarily disposed of.
   There is a striking proof of the complete subjugation of the
Island of Skye to the Norwegian invaders in the fact, that very
many of the proper names still used in it are traceable to a Norse
origin. The inhabitants have Tormoid, Harold, Olaus, and Ma-
nus,-all Norwegian names, still common among them. But
it is much more remarkable than this, that nearly every farm,
every hill, every stream, has a Norwegian appellation, while, at the
same time, not the remotest trace of Norse can be discovered in
any part of the language of the country, except the proper names.
The Gaelic spoken throughout the island is remarkably pure, and
free of foreign admixture. It is worthy of observation at the same
time, that, while in this country, where the Celts were subdued,
but from which they were never expelled, they adopted foreign
names to designate almost all the places; in the south again, from
which they migrated, or were expelled ages ago, where now not a
word of their language is spoken, yet places are almost universally
designated by names which they have left behind them, that is, by
Celtic names. This, however, is not the place where to follow
out the conclusions which might be drawn from such facts.
   The descendants of Lead still retain their Scandinavian names;
but, in every other respect, they have long ago conformed to the
habits of the Celtic tribes among which they dwelt, especially in
regard to the clan or patriarchal system of government which pre-
vailed among the Scotch and Irish Celts, but was utterly unknown
among the branches of the great Gothic family.
   Notwithstanding that thd Macleods have had their principal
residence in this parish for many centuries, none of the heads
of the family have been interred in it, (their burial-place being at
Rodil, in Harris), except the late chief, who ordered his remains
to be buried on his own estate. There is now a plain but taste-
ful monument erected over them by his successor, in the church-
yard of Duirinish.
   In the same burying-place, there is an obelisk erected by the
noted Simon Lord Lovat on the grave of his father, who died at


