
                             PERTH.                            89

have no peculiarity, as their intercourse with all quarters of the
kingdom is free and frequent. Their habits are in general cleanly,
and increasingly so. In the city in which the poor of the parish
principally reside, there are places where there is certainly a want
of cleanliness, arising in some families from the inadequate means
of support, and in others from, the profligacy, or want of domestic
economy on the part of the parents. I unhesitatingly ascribe much
of the squalid poverty that is found in many of the dwellings of the
labouring classes of the community, to the number and proximity
of low tippling-houses. These houses have, in many instances,
proved a most melancholy source of evil to the families of the poor.
It is scarcely to be expected that much attention to domestic comfort
can prevail where dissipation and poverty are combined; but among
the sober and industrious operatives, even where the wages are very
limited, there is a marked disposition to habitr of cleanliness. The
truth was lately shewn, when, upon the cholera making its appear-
ance in the country, a strict scrutiny was instituted into the state
of every quarter of the parish. A want of cleanliness was dis-
covered in a few districts, but the utmost readiness was shewn by
the people to remedy the evil. On the whole, the people enjoy
the comforts and advantages of society, and are contented with
their situation. There are, as in all such population, some who are
discontented with their allotment in society, and are easily moved
to take a violent part in the political questions of the day and
follow the standard of the turbulent agitator. The press is teeming
with periodicals that are violent on both sides of every matter,
bearing on the interests of the country, and sticfi productions an
ignorant and credulous multitude generally prefer to those that are
moderate and dispassionate; and thus it happens that our politi-
cally disposed operatives are particularly violent in their attach-
ments and animosities. Were there fewer inflammatory newspapers
brought into active circulation among them, they would be a much
more sober, prosperous, and happy portion of the community.
   With respect to the general " character of the people, intellec-
tual, moral, and religious," I am disposed to speak in commen-
datory terms. The reading portion of them is considerable, and
they have easy access to various libraries containing useful and
practical treatises. When we speak of the morality of a place, it
is always comparitive, and I know of no town of the same size in
which there is more attention paid to moral duty. If, on the one
hand, it cannot be denied that immoral characters have become


