
60            ARGYLESHIRE.

do not appear to exert, to any material extent a pernicious influ-
ence on the morals of the inhabitants.
   Fuel.-The fuel most commonly used is peats. These are dug
in the hilly parts of the parish. Their quality in the peninsula is
regarded as inferior. Coals from Glasgow are now procured in
summer at the rate of from 13s. to 15s. per waggon, and are chiefly
used by the upper classes.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Most of the superstitious practice's which existed among the
natives have now disappeared, or, if still observed, are observed
only as means of entertainment by the youthful portion of the in-
habitants.
   One pernicious relic of Popery the late venerable clergyman of
the parish was mainly instrumental in abolishing. At the time of
his appointment to the benefice, parents, actuated by a blind atid
superstitious desire for the salvation of their offspring, carried their
new-born babes, as soon as swaddled, to the minister to be bap-
tized ; and this practice, as may be easily conjectured, was, in nu-
merous instances, attended with fatal consequences. By the ex-
‚rcise of firmness, and the assiduous employment, on his part, of
every means to enlighten the people, it was however, many years
ago completely extirpated. Nor was this the only improvement
effected during his ministry. By the strict exercise of discipline
the morals of the inhabitants were ameliorated, and, by the force
of reiterated admonitions, their eyes were opened to the benefits
of education, and a desire for religious knowledge awakened in
their bosoms.
    The facilities of communication have been greatly increased
since the last Statistical Account was published. The public roads
have undergone material improvement, and the opening of the Cri-
nan Canal, and, more recently, the frequent intercourse by steamers
between the Highlands and the towns of the low country, enable
the natives to turn their raw produce to greater account, and pro-
cure, at, a much cheaper rate than formerly, such necessaries as
the parish does not itself produce, and such articles of luxury as,
their circumstances will allow them to use.
   Much improvement might be introduced into the mode of let-
ting land in the parish. Leases ought to be more generally given;
and, where there are more tenants than one in a single farm, each
should be rendered independent of the other, so that a spirit of
emulation might be excited, or, at least, that the ignorant and in-


