
     Statistical Account

halt at; and if the proprietor were to build such a house, and
let it to one who could afford to brew and bake, he would
receive more than common interest for his money, would
confer a public benefit on the parish and on travellers, be-
sides increasing and ornamenting the village, which he has
the pleasure to see in a thriving and promising condition*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a practice here, too common in most places, which,
it were much to be wished, was abolished or less used.  When
any one is taken ill, the neighbours think it their duty, or a
piece of civility, immediately to frequent the house, and even
crowd the room where the patient lies; which must be attended
with very bad effects.  Even where the small-pox or fevers are
raging, mothers with their children in their arms attend with-
out scruple, a practice rather tempting, than trusting in provi-
dence, as it is unnecessarily exposing themselves to danger,
which might be easily avoided.  On these occasions, they are all
physicians; they feel the pulse, shake their heads, and have an
unlucky turn to foreboaing the worst.  I have known a man giv-
en up by his neighbours, who, in three or four days after, has
been working in the stone quarry; and several persons are still
alive, in very good health at this day, and likely to see some
carried to their graves, who had long ago pronounced their
doom.

</UNREADABLE>

   A kin to this is a notion too common, though a mistaken one,
that the minister of the parish should almost constantly attend
the bed-side of the sick.  Where persons are worn down with
age and infirmity, and have been long deprived of public in-
struction, they have a right to see their minister, to converse
with him, and receive consolation, and so in other cases, where
distress does not wholly unfit for conversation.  But what can a
minister, if he has not some skill in physic, do or say to one in
the rage of a fever?  he pretends not to work miracles, the pa-
tient means not to make confession, to take the sacrament, or to
receive extreme unction.  When custom is on the side of what
is right and profitable, it ought to be preserved and encouraged;
if otherwise, however popular, it should receive no countenance.

