
1038                        PERTHSHIRE.

which a considerable number of peats are, dug every year.  Brush-
wood, also is eagerly bought up by the people for the same pur-
pose.
February 1843.

                         PARISH OF DUNBLANE.
            PRESBETERY OF DUNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.
                 THE REV.  WILLIAM MACKENZIE, MINISTER.

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
          Name.-DDNBLANE is supposed to take its name from St
        Blane, a Culdee, and Holme Hill, att eminence or dun overlook-
        ing the cathedral.
          Extent, &c.-The extent of the parish is about nine miles in
        length, by six in breadth.  It is bounded by the parishes of Lecropt,
        Logie, Blackford, Muthill, Comrie, And Kilmadock.  Its situation
        at the western termination of the Ochill range, and reaching to the
        "braes of Doune," an offshoot of the Grampians, renders it, es-
        pecially around the 11 city" of Dunblane, well sheltered from the
        east wind; the climate is consequently found to be salubrious to
        persons who suffer in an eastern exposure.   Its position in the
        Centre of Scotland exempts it equally from the damp of the west,
        and the cold of the east wind.
          Mineral Well.-The mineral well of Dunblane, two miles distant
        from the town, was casually discovered in 1814, and for a time, be-
        ing, deemed more mild and safe, rivalled the well at Airthrey.  The
        concourse of strangers promised to restore to Dunblane the stand-
        ing it bad lost by the fell of Prelacy and lots of its bishop. The in-
        habitants vaed every effort to encourage this; but the refusal to do
        or permit what was necessary to render the discovery available, has
        kept Dunblane far behind its rival,-at wbicb now has sprung up
        the beautiful and prosperous village of the Bridge of Allan.
          The analysis of the mineral spring, by John Murray, M. D.,
        gave the following results. In a pint of water tbere are,

          <TABLE>            Muriate of seeds,        24. gr.
                                      of lime,        18.
                             Sulphate of lime,         3.5
                             Oxide of iron,             .17


