
                             MONZIE.                           269

cing his people to attend church, occasionally took part with them
in this amusement;-by thus gaining their affections, he prevailed
on them to accompany him to the house of prayer, and there listen
to his instructions.
   Mr Bowie succeeded Mr Chalmer in 1711, and died in 1740.
During his incumbency the Earl of Marr set up the standard of
rebellion; and on the 12th of November 1715, was fought the
battle of Sheriffmuir, within twenty miles of Monzie. In reference
to this civil war we find the following entry in the session records:
   "Monzie, June 19th 1715. * * * * * The session being
informed that there is a rebellion about to be in the nation, and
that Alexander Drummond * * * * * has joyned that partie,/f*
they can doe nothing in that affair at this time."
   For more than two hundred years antecedent to this period, the
mania of burning for witchcraft had raged with violence all over
Europe. History informs us, that about the year 1515, 500
witches were executed at Geneva in the short space of three
months; in the diocese of Como, 1000 in one year; in Germany
alone, from the year 1484 to the suppression of persecution for
witchcraft, 100,000.  England, according to Barrington, put to
death 30,000; and Scotland, with a narrower field and a smaller
population, was nothing bdhind,-multitudes being burnt in every
part of the kingdom. Need it excite wonder then, if in this san-
guinary and appalling tragedy,-when "one-half of the population
was either bewitching or bewitched,"-the parish of Monzie should
have immolated one solitary victim. Tradition informs us, that
the name of the woman who was burned for this alleged, crime was
M'Nieven.  The scene of her execution was the brow of a hill,
commonly called the Knock, and the particular spot is still recog-
nized by the name of M'Nieven's Craig. Whether or not she was
convicted before the Court of Justiciary is now uncertain; but as
the privy-council was in the practice of granting commissions to
resident gentlemen and ministers, to examine, and afterwards to
try and execute witches all over Scotland, it is probable that this
unfortunate creature was convicted before one of those local tri-
bunals. The date of this transaction must be between 1711 and
1722, when the last execution for witchcraft in Scotland took place
at Dornoch.  While at the stake, she is represented, like the sibyl
of old, as pouring out predictions and denunciations: but these, in
all probability, are much beholden to the inventive powers of others,
and were the now detailed, could not afford gratification to any


