

198                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

of conveyance or of communications. The post-town is Falkirk,
from which there is a runner daily for the delivery of the letters;
but, no doubt, the establishment of a regular post-office in Ben-
netstown would be a great improvement, for the runner requires to
travel over so wide a field, that the letters are seldom received by
many in time to be answered in course. There are about two
miles of turnpike; and coaches pass daily to and from Edinburgh,
Glasgow, and Stirling. The Union Canal also intersects the pa-
rish for about two miles and a-half; and the projected railway*
between Edinburgh and Glasgow, so far as it extends in this pa-
rish, will be almost in the line of the Union Canal.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The present church was built in 1731.
It is seated for 607. It is damp, ill arranged, and most inade-
quate to the wants of the parish. The number of communicants
belonging to the Establishment cannot be accommodated in it, for
they amount to 749; and the total number of individuals connect-
ed with the Establishment, according to the census of 1835, was
2585. Since that period, the proportions have not decreased but
increased. Yet how long the present church may stand, it is
hard to tell. It cannot be condemned, and by the existing, law,
all the beritors must agree before a new one can be erected,
and, consisting of above thirty, unanimity among so many is not
easily attained. In the Redding district, where the destitution
is greatest, there is a preaching station. There a probationer of
the Church of Scotland has officiated regularly since 1835, in a
school-room belonging to the Redding colliery ; yet, prior to that
period, service was performed occasionally in it on the Sabbath
evening by the parish minister. The Dissenters in the parish be-
long to the United Associate Synod, the Relief, and the Came-
ronians, and attend public worship at Falkirk, Lauriston, and
Linlithgow. The whole of these, including a few Episcopalians,
amount to 503, and the total number of sittings rented in their
respective places of worship is 158. There are nineteen persons
who profess to belong to no religious denomination. In the vil-
lage of Bennetstown there has been for upwards of two years fre-
quent service on the Sabbath evening in a school-room, by minis-
ters or preachers of most. of the Dissenting denominations in the
neighbourhood.
  The manse is in good repair. The glebe consists of five Scotch

<FOOTNOTE>This railway is now nearly made. It is expected that it will be opened for the
passage of locomotive carriages by August or September next.


