
134                      LANARKSHIRE.

appeared the celebrated edition of Horace, the proof sheets of
which, it is well known, were hung up in the college, and a reward
offered to any one who should discover an inaccuracy. By the
year 1746, Faulls had printed eighteen different classics, besides
Dr Hutcheson's class-book in English and Latin; and Homer with
the Philippics of Demosthenes, were advertised as in the press.
The Homer appeared in the following year, both in a quarto and
in an octavo form. The first of these is a very beautiful book, and
more correct than the other, which was printed after Dr Clarke's
edition. The success which had attended the efforts of the Faullses
as printers, induced the elder brother to extend the sphere of his
usefulness. After being four times abroad, he sent home to his
brother a painter, an engraver, and a copperplate printer, whom he
had engaged in his service, and returned to Scotland in 1753, and
soon afterwards instituted an academy in Glasgow for painting,
engraving, moulding, modelling, and drawing. The University
allowed him the use of a large hall for exhibiting his pictures, and
several other rooms for his students; and three Glasgow merchants
afterwards became partners in the undertaking. The students,
according to the proposed plan, after having given proofs of genius
at home, were to be sent abroad at the expense of the academy.
But the scheme, which was somewhat romantic, did not succeed,
and was attended with considerable loss to all concerned. In
Faull's own words, " there seemed to be a pretty general emula-
tion, who should run it most down."
	Letter-press printing has been carried on of late years to such
an extent that it could not be accomplished without the aid of
steam. Printing-machines were invented by Mr Nicholson, editor
of the Philosophical Journal, about the year 1790, but they were
first constructed, and put in operation, if not invented anew, by a
German named Konig about twenty to thirty years ago, and set
agoing in the printing of the London Times newspaper on 28th
November 1814, steam being the propelling power. The ma-
chines may be said to consist of two kinds,--those which print only
one side of a sheet of paper at a time, for newspaper work,--and
those which print both sides of the sheet, and are adapted for book
work. Messrs Ballantyne and Company of Edinburgh were the
first in Scotland who printed by steam. In 1829 or 1830, they
fitted up a steam-press for printing Blackwood's Magazine, and
the Waverley Novels. Soon after this, the Edinburgh, leith, and
Glasgow Advertiser was printed by steam, then the Edinburgh


