
794	                            FIFESHIRE.

     Number of unmarried men, bachelors, and widowers upwards of 50,     4
                         women upwards of 45                            10
     Average number of children in each family,	                               3

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

   The great majority of the people of this parish are engaged in
agriculture, either as farmers and ploughmen, or as day-labourers.
The number of tradesmen is small, four masons, three carpenters,
and seven weavers. There are about 1000 Scots or 1261 impe-
rial acres in the parish. The whole is arable and in a high state
of cultivation, except a few acres on the top of Colluthie hill,
which is steep and rocky, and incapable of being ploughed, and
which has been planted with wood, principally Scots firs. The
soil in general is excellent, being chiefly a black loam, resting up-
on trap or rotten-rock. In some places it is a strong coarse clay
with a wet bottom; and there are about thirty-six acres of moss-
land belonging to the farm of Lordscairnie. Within the recol-
lection of the present incumbent, improvements of the most valu-
able and substantial nature have been accomplished. Upwards
of sixty acres of land, which were formerly covered with whins
and broom, have been trenched, and manured and converted into
productive soil. The land has been subdivided and inclosed,
drained in the most effectual manner, and cropped so judiciously
as both to keep it as clean as a garden, and also to make it most
productive.
   The average rent of a Scots acre of land may be L.2, 5s.
   The grazing of an ox of twenty-five stories weight of upwards
may cost during the summer from L.1, 15s. to L.2. The keep
of one during the winter for six months, on turnips and straw, from
L.2, 10s. to L.3. The grazing of a wedder or ewe L.1 per an-
num.
    Live-Stock.-Great attention has been paid in the parish to
the breeding of domestic animals. Several of the farmers rear a
number of young horses every year, and occasionally purchase some
brood mares from adjoining counties to improve their own stock.
Small active horses are in general preferred to large and heavy
ones, as they are better fitted than the others for labouring the hil-
ly ground of the north side of Fife. The Fife breed of oxen,
which is generally of a black colour and horned, is the favourite
in this quarter. Not long ago, it had rather fallen into disrepute;
but the tide is now turned, and from the attention directed to its
improvement, it bids fair to rival the best breeds in the kingdom.
                                   3

