
706                          FIFESHIRE.

courses dishonour God-therefore it was appointed yt every one
sall repaire to yr owne houses imimediatelie after sermones are
ended, yt the rest of the Lord's day remaining may be employed
by masters and others in the family in repeating of sermones, ca-
techising, and other religious exercises; and if hereafter any sall
be found standing about ye thorne, they shall be conveined before
the kirk-session, and censured according to the nature of yr dis-
obedience."
   The designation Law Know, given to a small eminence in the
neighbourbood of the village of Carnock, may be also mentioned,
as pointing out a place where, it is probable, in feudal times, the
vassals and dependents were assembled by their superiors for de-
ciding their differences, and administering justice.
    Modern Buildings.-Of these there are few to be noticed.
The mansion-house of Newbigging, in which the Institutes of the
Law of Scotland were composed, is still standing. It was design-
ed, it is said, by one of the Adams, and affords but an indifferent
specimen of his art at the time. It is at present used as a farm-
house, and considered a very indifferent one. There is a plain and
substantial house on the estate of Blair, which, was built about
thirty years ago. And at Luscar a handsome residence, in the
old English or Elizabethan style, has been lately built. And on
the estate of Carnock Mr Stuart has just erected a small but com-
modious dwelling. A new church has also been lately erected,
which, though it be a plain structure, is yet, independently of its
utility, a great ornament to the lace. It is in the Saxon style,
and in the form of a cross, with a handsome spire, and groined
ceiling. There is a single corn-mill in the parish. It goes both
by water and steam.

                        III.-POPULATION.
   Nothing very certain can be mentioned regarding the ancient
state of the population of the parish, except that it seems to have
been more scattered than it is at present. Judging from the re-
gister of births the number of inhabitants, nearly 200 years ago,
would not amount to much above 350. At that time, the village
of Carnock was the only one in the parish, and of small extent.
The others are of comparatively recent date. And as manufac-
tures bad then made little progress, the population was chiefly
engaged in agricultural pursuits, and in the domestic labours which
were then requisite for procuring the necessary supplies of food
and clothing.


