
     Of Dolphington

   William Brown, Esq. of Dolphington, about the year
1650, mortified 4 acres of land for the behoof of the 
schoolmaster of the parish, on which land a good dwell-
ing-house is now built.  The said William Brown also
mortified 1000 merks Scots, the interest of which was to
be paid to the schoolmaster, for educating poor scholars;
the naming of said scholars to be by the said William 
Brown, and his heirs:  He likewise, at same time, morti-
fied 200 merks, the interest of which was to be paid to the
poor of the parish.  Lastly, the foresaid William Brown 
mortified 2 acres of land to the minister serving the cure;
but this last mortification has not been possessed by the 
minister since the Revolution.  The late Mr. John
Bowie, minister of Dolphington, in the year 1759, mor-
tified and disponed a farm lying in the parish of Dunfire,
presently renting 27 L. 12 s. yearly, free of all burdens, to
the minister and kirk-session of Dolphington, to be dif-
posed of in the following manner; viz. 100 merks to the
schoolmaster for teaching 20 poor scholars, and no more,
the naming of said scholars to be by the kirk-session;
100 merks for educating any lad of a remarkably bright
genius, to be allowed him for 6 years, and no longer; or
sailing any lad of this description in the parish, the said
100 merks is to be applied to pay apprentice fees; 50
merks for buying bibles, psalm books, etc. to poor scho-
lars ; or sailing them, to be applied to any other chari-
table purpose the session shall judge most proper; 50

<FOOTNOTE>

these means, bringing both the labours and livings nearer to a Presbyterian
equality, may be practicable. I think, deserves due consideration; for un-
less something be done to meliorate the situation of many of the clergy,
who have only small parishes, and, what is still worse, whose tithes are
exhausted, and consequently can claim no augmentation, they will be-
come not only despised in their respective parishes for their poverty, but
their families must feel the greatest distress.
 

