
     Statistical Account

The present set of gentlemen farmers in this parish, are,
though few in number, men of a liberal education, who
would be an ornament to society even in a more public part
of the kingdom.  They are renowned for their hospita-
lity, which the strangers, who travel through the country,
can attest, and which they find very convenient, there be-
ing no inns or public houses for their accommodation.
   The 2d class of tenants have the lands divided in small
portions among them.  The division of farms is into pen-
nies, half-pennies, and farthings.  The greatest part of 
this class of tenants possess half a-penny each, some one-
third of a penny, and some one-fourth, or a farthing
lands.  All the cattle on the same farm feed in common,
each tenant being restricted to a certain number, according
to his division of lands.  The state of this class of tenants
will best be illustrated by an instance; so that when the in-
comes and expenses are compared, a discovery will be made
on which side the balance lies.  A tenant possessing half a

<FOOTNOTE>

the guardian of his children, and the executor of his will; which trust
was in general executed with fidelity.  On the other land, when the
chieftain was threatened with danger from the invasion or encroachments
of his neighbours, his gentlemen flocked to his castle to assist in his deli-
berations, and to offer their services.  If war was determined upon, they,
with their adherents, followed him to the field, to support his pretensions,
and share his fate.  By this means the strongest attachment was establish-
ed between them, partly on the ties of consanguinity, and partly on mu-
tual services.  This attachment continued unimpaired, till the rebellion
in the year 1745, which, though attended with the happy consequence of
civilizing the Highlanders, and making them good and loyal subjects,
yet was attended with this disadvantage, that it weakened the attach-
ment between the chieftains and their people; for since that period, the   
chieftains, from different motives, have withdrawn themselves from
their estates, have become unacquainted with their people, whom they
visit but seldom, are not so attentive to the ties of consaguinity, and are
become less scrupulous in removing the tacksmen from their farms, if a 
higher offer is made than the possessors can afford to pay.


