
998                         PERTHSHIRE.

back bills of Dowally, which were tenanted for months after the
battle of Culloden. They are difficult of access, and known only
to the old parishioners.

<TABLE=Population>
                            III.--Population.
                 In 1790, the population of Dowally was 687
                    1831,                               561
                    1836,                               596
                    1841,                               659

<TABLE=Industry>
                            IV.--INDUSTRY.
 	In the absence of any accurate data, Dowally may be taken, at
a rough guess, to contain about 12,000 acres, whereof
                       Arable,                          1200
                       Pasture,                          300
                       Woods,                         10,200
                       Lochs,                            200

                                                       12,000

	The valued rent of the parish is L. 1399, 2s. 2d. Scots. The
average rent of the arable land is L.l, 15s. per acre. There are
thirty farms of various sizes. Of late years, the farm steadings have
been built of stone and mortal with slated roofs. The roads are good.
There are three markets and three meals mills within a few miles
of the parish. The potato mill at Tullimet, adjoining Dowally,
which uses nearly forty bolls of potatoes per working day, is the
mart for the potato crop of the district. There are two saw mills
in the rish. The ancient markets within the parish were the
Kindallachan market for sheep, and the herd's "japping" market
at Dowally for fruit. *
	A great proportion of the farmers have their lime-kiln for farm
purposes. Limestone is to be had in the parish of Blair, twelve
miles distant. Bone manure is now much used, and answers well
the soil. The shifts in cultivation are in some places four,
five, six, and seven. Oats and barley are the general produce,
The oats are the potato and Hopetoun; barley, Dunlop and
English; the Chevalier is given up.  Patches of bear or bigg,
rye, and lint are occasionally to be seen. Wheat has been tried
without any beneficial result. Tares potatoes, and turnips are ge-
neral. There is no meadow hay; it all consists of rye-grass and
white and red clover. The principal fuel is peat.
	Farming, draining, enclosing are well understood in Dow-

<FOOTNOTE>The japping market was discotinued about 100 years ago. The berds, in the
course of the-daty, arranged themselves on each side of the Burn of Dowally; on a
signal given, they best the water one against the other with sticks, till one of the sides
gave way. The vanquished then left the market, and the victors had the exclosive
how our of treating the lasses to fruit, and of enjoying their society at the ball.


