
492                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

after a winding course of twelve miles from its source in the pa-
rish of Cushnie.  It is about 25 feet wide in its course through
this parish, and is rapid and shallow like the Don.  The Burn
of Bents, a smaller and more sluggish stream, bounds the parish
on the east, and the still smaller Burn of Buckie has its course
wholly within its middle and eastern regions.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks of the whole parish are
of those aggregates, which have been denominated primitive.
The minerals composing the aggregates are, quartz, felspar, horn-
blende, and mica: the species of the aggregates themselves, chiefly
those which have obtained the names of granite, syenite, and
mica-slate.  The varieties of the granite may be pronounced
infinite.  It varies by an increase or deficiency in different spe-
cimens of some of the minerals, quartz, felspar, or mica, of which
it is composed; or by an enlargement or diminution of the crys-
tals of those minerals.  It also varies greatly in point of colour,
and in being sometimes flawed into large or middling blocks, and
sometimes shivered into small fragments in situ.  In some places,
definite varieties of it may be seen forming continuous veins for a
considerable space ; in other places may be seen amorphous
beds, in which a great number of varieties are interlaced in the
most inextricable confusion.  Among other varieties, we have
some closely resembling the well known gray granite of Aber-
deen, and equally serviceable and durable for building; and others
as closely resembling the equally well known red granite of Pe-
terhead.
   The syenite can only be considered as a variety of the granite,
in which hornblende is substituted for the felspar.  In fact, the
granite is in some places seen gradually passing into a light-co-
loured syenite; but some circumstances attend the latter which
do not belong to the former.  Thus it is never observed shivered
in situ into small fragments like the granite, but only flawed into
large blocks; and while both the aggregates are penetrated by
numerous small veins, those of the granite are most frequently
quartz, and those of the syenite are almost invariably a smaller
granular syenite.  The positions of the syenite in relation to other
rocks have not been observed to follow any definite order, and
it has not, like the granite, been seen forming large veins, but ir-
regular beds.
   The mica-slate, which forms the prevailing rock for a consi-
derable space in the north-west part of the parish, is subject


