                                    GREENGCK.                        425

      we have no antiquities of any description. The name Kilblain,
      applied to a part of the town, would seem to indicate that, at some
      former period, a religious house did stand on the spot which has
      received that appellation; but no ruins of convents or monas-
      teries, or even of Popish cbapels, exist, or are known to have ex-
      isted in this place.  The author of the first Statistical Account
      affirms that a chapel, dedicated to St Laurence, once stood near
      the bay of Greenock and Crawfurdsdike, which, he says, was an-
      ciently called St Laurence Bay, from the chapel near it. But he
      has not given his authority for this statement, and its accuracy is,
      to say the least of it, extremely doubtful.
         Modern Buildings.- The only modern buildings requiring to be
      noticed under the head of Civil History are :
         1. The mansion-house of the Greenock family on the eminence
      overhanging the town.  A small part of this building, as we have
      already, mentioned, appears to be of great antiquity.  The remain-
      der consists of additions made in the earlier half of the seventeenth
      and eighteenth centuries. It is said that the last of these addi-
      tions was planned and executed by Mr Watt, the father of the ce-
      lebrated philosopher, whose life and history we have briefly re-
      corded.
         2. The Town Hall, built in 1766, after a plan by Mr Watt.
      It appears from the burgh records, excerpts from which have been
      kindly communicated to the compiler by Mr George Williamson,
      writer, that, before the erection of that building, the magistrates
      had held their courts in a wooden shed in William Street, which
      served the three-fold purposes of town-hall, post-office, and fire-
      engine house.  We mention this circumstance for the purposed of
      showing how far behind the town of Greenock was at the middle
      of last century, and bow rapidly it has grown since that period.
         3. The Jail or Bridewell, erected in 1810.  It contains 30 cells
      for criminals, and 5 for debtors.
         4. The Sheriff- Court House, almost, contiguous to the jail. it
      was built by militia reversion money, and subscriptions from the
      count and private. persons ; and was completed and first occupied
      in 1834.  It consists of a very handsome, well-proportioned hall
      for a court-room, apartments for jur men and witnesses, and
      chambers for the, sheriff: and sheriff-clerk. Before its, erection,
      the sheriff-substitute held his court in the, town hall.
         At the same time that the sheriff-court, house was built, there


