
                      PAISLEY.                          233

was filled not by Mr Drysdale, but by Mr Stirling.  Mr Drys-
dale, however, appears to have continued at Paisley.  For on the
establishment of Episcopacy in 1661, he incurred the displeasure
of the government for his non-conformity, and having been charged
with turbulent and seditious practices, the Earl of Eglinton, as
Sheriff of Renfrew, was ordered to seize his person, and send him
in to the council, by the 9th of December.  Mr Drysdale ab-
sconded, and, as Wodrow conjectures, fled to Ireland.
   Alexander Dunlop was removed from the second to the first
charge, on the 28th December 1653.  He was of the house of
Dunlop in Ayrshire, a branch of the Dunlops of Achenskeith.
He married Jean, daughter of William Mure of Glanderston, and
was father of the celebrated William Dunlop, Principal of the Col-
lege of Glasgow.  On account of his opposition to Episcopacy,
he was, after being unsuccessfully dealt with by the council, silenced
from preaching, but allowed to return to his family.  At length,
on the 6th of January 1663, he was summoned before the council,
and having refused to take and subscribe the usual oaths, "the
Lords of Council ordained him to be banished forth of his Majesty's
dominions, reserving to themselves to prefix the time of his re-
moval; and, in the meantime, ordain him to confine himself
within the bounds of the diocesses of Aberdeen, Brechin, Caith-
ness, Dunkeld, and allow him the space of ten days, to go home,
and order his business and affairs."  " He was," says Wodrow,
" a person of eminent piety, and extraordinary diligence and learn-
ing, and singular prudence, and sweetness of temper.  He has
left behind him, among other valuable papers, collections towards,
a system of divinity in English, which, had he been able to have
put in order, would have been one of the most valuable bodies of
divinity which have been drawn up."
   William Pierson appears as minister of Paisley, in the first.
presbytery, under the new order of church government, which
was, held at Paisley on the 29th of October 1663.  Mr Pierson
having been afterwards presented to Dunfermline, received his
ordinary's demission, and a testimonial of his carriage from his
brethren, on the 6th of February 1666.
   James Chambers succeeded him in 1667, and continued mi-
nister of Paisley till 1669; for we find,

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow's Hist. Vol. i. p. 318, Svo. ed.
   " In this calm (the indemnity after Pentland, December 1667,) Mr Alexander
Dunlop, and Mr James Ferguson, two eminent Ptesbyterian ministers, died." _Ib.
Vol. ii. p. 100.


