
                        GLADSMUIR.                        179

Bart. Her eldest son, Sir Charles Ross of Balnagowan, prede-
ceased here leaving by his first wife, Maria Teres daughter of
James Lockhart of Lee and Carnwath, Count of the Holy Roman
Empire, a daughter, Matilda, and by his second wife, Lady Mary
Fitzgerald, daughter of William Robert, second Duke of Leinster,
a son, Sir Charles Ross of Balnagowan, and five daughters. Ma-
tilda, the only child of the first marriage, succeeded to Lamington,
Hoprig, and Penston, married Sir Thomas John Cochran, Captain
R. N. and died 1819. The eldest son, Alexander Dundas Ross
Cochran Wishart Baillie, who is yet a minor, is the present pro-
prietor of Larnington, Hoprig, and Penston, and is lineally descend-
ed from William de Balliolo in 1296.
   To this family, the parish of Gladsmuir in a great measure owes
its existence; for William Baillie of Lamington was most active
in procuring its disjunction from the neighbouring parishes, and
its erection and endowment as a separate parish.
   Douglas of Longniddry.-Another ancient family connected
with this parish was Douglas of Longniddry. This family was a
cadet of the Douglases of Dalkeith, Earls of Morton, and was
distinguished for steady attachment to the doctrines of the Re-
formation, which, about the middle of the sixteenth century, were
spreading rapidly through this country. *
   In the Duke of Somerset's expedition to Scotland in 1547, it is
mentioned "7th September, marched that day nine miles, and
camped at night by a town standing upon the Frith called Long-
niddrie. There was found a gentlewoman, the wife of one Hugh
Douglas. She was great with child, whose estate the council un-
derstanding, my Lord's Grace, and my Lord Lieutenant took or-
der, that all night, without danger or damage, she was well preserve
ved." The Douglases had the east part of Longniddry, where the
vaulted ground floor of the castle still remains. At that time, the
estate belonging to the Douglases comprehended a considerable
part of Hairlaw, Redcoll, and Setonhill, which have since been tak-

<FOOTNOTE>When John Knox was obliged to leave St Andrews, on account of the troubles
to which the Protestants were then subjected, he was invited to Longniddry by Mr
Douglas. There he was employed in conducting the education of Mr Douglas' two
sons, Francis and George, and also Alexander Cockburn, the eldest son of the laird
of Ormiston. This Alexander Cockburn was a young man of great promise, but died
at the early age of twenty-eight. A brazen tablet was erected to his memory in the
aisle of the old church at Ormiston, which still in existence. While residing at
Longniddry, Knox was in the practice of expounding the Scriptures, and preaching
the doctrines of the Reformation in a chapel, bout half a-mile to the west of which be
then lived, close by the present mansion-house of Longniddry, which, from bis preach-
ing in it still goes by the name of Knox's Kirk.


