
                           COUPAR-ANGUS.                    1143

     Coupar was once the seat of a rich and flourishing abbey of Cis-
  tertian monks.  It was founded in 1164 by Malcolm IV., grand-
  son and successor of David I., whose liberality to the church led
  King James to remark, 11 That Saint David must have been
  a sore saint to the Crown."   Fordun (Scotichronicori, lib. viii.
  cap. 7,) says, "Anno MCLXIV. de consilio Waltheri, Abbatis de
  Melros, rex Malcolmus, fundavit nobile monasterium de Cupro-
  in- Angus;" and (lib. ix. cap. 48,) "hoc anno (1233) dedicatae
  sunt ecclesiae de Newbotil, Abirbrotlioc, et Cupro."
     Wynton, in "De Orygynale Cronykil of Scotland," tells us,

        "A thowsand a hundyre and sexty yhere
          And fowre    *     *      *     *
          Malcolme, Kyng of Scotland,
          And pesybly in it regnand,
          De elevynd yhere of his crowne,
          Mad tbe fundatyowne
          Of the Abbay of Culpyre-in-Angws,
          And dowyt it wyth his almws,
          In honoure of the may kles may
          Relygyws munkis there dwelis ay,
          All lyk to Cystwys in habyt,
          We oys to call thame mwnkys qwhyt."-Book vii. Cap. vii.

     The revenues of the abbey appear to have been great.  Boece
  says, "Ea est abbacia divae virgini sacra amplissimis dotata reddi-
  tibus.  Inhabitant eam viri religiosi ordhnis Cistertii, multa pietate
  celebres; nec in hunc usque diem ullo notati manifesto flagitio."
     There are two rentals of the abbey; one in the Book of As-
  sumptions, where it is valued at L.1886, 8s. 6d.; and another by
  Keith, as follows: money, L.1239, 14s. 9d.; wheat, 7 chalders,
  12 bolls, I peck; bear, 75 chalders, 10 bolls, 3 pecks; meal,
  73 chalders, 4 bolls, 3 pecks, 3 1/2 lippies; oats, 25 chalders, 4
  bolls, 2 pecks, 2 lippies.
     It possessed, in the parish of Coupar, the estates of Keithick,
  Arthurstone, Denhead, Balgersho, Cronan; in the parish of Ben-
  dochy,-Coupar Grange, probably the home-farm of the abbey,
  where the abbot bad a country seat, and to which the monks oc-
  casionally retired when sick, Drimmie, Persie, and Cally, com-
  monly called Monks'-Cally, to distinguish it from another Cally
  in the same neighbourhood.  The abbey appears to have pos-
  sessed land in the parish of Fossaway also; as we find that, in
  the year 1572, "John Edmonstoun, minister of Tullibole, had
  his stipend, L.73, 15s., out of the third of the Abbey of Coupar,
  be the taxmen or parochiners of Fossaway." The Hays of Errol,


