
                             DIRLETON.                         209

July, the English soldiers, reduced to great scarcity of provisions,
subsisted on the pease and beans which they picked up in the fields,
presenting a favourable view of the state of agriculture in East
Lothian so far back as the thirteenth century.
   After a resolute defence, the castle surrendered to Anthony
Beek, Bishop of Durham. It was still in the possession of the
English in 1306, as appears from the Wardrobe accounts of Ed-
ward I., containing entries of provisions and ammunition for the
castle of Dirleton. When Cromwell invaded Scotland in 1650,
the castle was, after a gallant defence, taken by Lambert, and by
him dismantled and reduced to its present ruinous state.
   Ancient Family of Livington.-Saltcoats in this parish, now a
ruin, belonged to an ancient family of the name of Livington.
Nisbet in his Heraldry notices a seal inscribed Sig. Patricie,
Livingtoun de Saltcoat, 1593. The first of the family is said to
have received a grant of land extending from Gulane point to
North Berwick Law, for having destroyed a boar which infested
the neighbourhood. This tradition is somewhat confirmed by the
fact, that the estate of Saltcoats extends from Gulane point almost
to North Berwick Law, though many other properties intervene.
The glove by which Livington is said to have protected his arm
during the combat was sold about fifty years ago, and his helmet
hung in the family aisle in the church, till very recently, when
it disappeared. A good painting of the fight was some years since
in possession of an old servant of the family. There is a small
stream at the north of the Peffer, called Livington's ford, where
the boar is said to have been slain. Another account gives to
Prora (a farm in Athelstaneford parish) the honour of this exploit;
one of the fields there being called the "Bloody Lands," in which
there is a large stone, evidently raised at considerable expense, the
name of which is the 11 Boar stone."  This estate of Saltcoats
came by an heir female to the Hamiltons of Pencaitland, from whom
it descended to the present proprietor, Lady Ruthven.
   Fentonbarns.-Fentonbarns, in this parish, belonged to John
Preston, Lord of Session from 1596-1609, and Lord President of
that court, from 1609 to his death in 1616. He settled Fenton-
barns on his second son, Sir Michael Preston of Fenton, who, 10th
Februar 1631, in a quarrel with two brothers of the name of
Smith, in the neighbouring village of Drem, killed one, and se-
verely wounded the other. He was immediately apprehended, trend
before the Justiciary court, 15th February, convicted and beheaded
at the Cross of Edinburgh, the same or the next day.



