
              794                              PERTHSHIRE.

              combination.  The following very nearly coincides with the
              analysis of Dr Murray,-the only difference being the exist-
              ence of a minute portion of nitrogen gas, which, however,
              might have been produced, during the analysis, from the decom-
              position of atmospheric air, as the mercury used in collecting the
              gaseous productswas very impure.  The temperature of the Pit-
              keathly spring was 49&deg; at the time the trial was made (July), be-
              ing 24&deg; under the temperature of the air.
                 Proportion of ingredients in a gallon:-
                     Carbonic acid, 9.5 c inches.                    Nitrogen, 1.5 c. inches.
              Carbonate of lime,      -   5.7 grains          Sulphate of soda,     -     6.3 grains.
              Chloride of calcium,    -  170.                 Chloride of sodium,   -   114.5

                The most delicate . tests afforded no indication of either iron or
              hydriodic acid, which, by some, have been supposed to exist in the
              Pitkeathly mineral.  Tbe effects of mineral waters on the animal
              ecomomy must not be supposed to coincide with the individu-
              al action of the substances composing them,-for not only do
              these exist in different states of chemical combination from what
              we would infer from analysis, but their action is considerably modi-
              fied by the, manner in whith they are admixed.
                 Much has been said about the. medicinal properties of the Pit-
              keathly mineral, and there are few diseases in which it has not
              been recommended and tried.  Like many other minerals, too, it
              is considered by not a few to be a panacea for all disorders,-a sort
              of Paracelsian elixir, by which not only the sick may be restored,
              but even the constitution of the healthy sustained and invigorated.
                 It is to be regretted that this belief in their universal efficacy is
              so prevalent, since it induces many to employ them in diseases
              where they cannot but be prejudicial; and many, also, who enjoy
              the utmort health, to persevere in their continued use, very much
              to the derangement, and it may be ultimate hurt, of their consti-
              tutions.  There is not the least doubt, too, that many of the cures
              effected during a course of mineral waters, and willingly ascribed
              by the patient to the potent virtues of his favourite mineral, are,
              with far greater truth, to be attributed to the less equivocal agen-
              cies of change of air, healthful exercise, and buoyancy of spirits,
              the usual concomitants of rustication.  It must not be supposed
              that those remarks are intended to underrate the value of the Pit-
              keathly mineral; for the benefit to be derived from its judicious
              use, in some forms of disease, is very great.  Their only object
              is to guard against its inordinate and indiscriminate employment,



