
                            STIRLING                        395

ter, but of low specific gravity, and much used for washing. It
has been calculated, that, were all the water proceeding from this
spring forced into the pipes that supply the town, it would afford
every individual not less than 14.03 gallons per twenty-four hours.
It is protected by a small building, part of which is supposed to
have been a small chapel, but is more likely to have been a bath.
Its temperature is very cold. It exhibits, in addition to muriate
of lime, sulphate of lime, or plaster of Paris. it is, therefore, not
quite so well adapted for culinary purposes as that of the public
wells; yet it is not, on account of the small quantity of sulphate of
lime found in it, less wholesome.  It is well adapted for and much
used in, brewing. The poorer classes in Stirling inhabit generally
very old houses, many of them in closes closely congregated to-
gether, and are far from being particular in removing from their
neighbourbood the filth thrown from their dwellings.  This must
have a very injurious effect on their health.  On the other hand,
the immediate neighbourbood to the town of the King's Park, af-
fording a cheerful outlet into the fresh air, and a beautiful and
bracing promenade, contributes much to counteract this unhealth-
ful influence.  The high elevation, too, of the upper parts of the
town, promoting a free circulation of air, tends to diminish the
dampness of the atmosphere, produced by the proximity of the
river and other causes in the lower parts.  So that, notwithstand-
ing some disadvantages such as those that have been mentioned,
the various healthful influences with which they are combined pro -
duce, upon the whole, a salubrity so well known, as, along with
the extraordinary beauty of the situation, to attract many families
not connected with Stirling by nativity, relationship, or profession-
al business, to settle themselves in it as residents. A remarkable
illustration of the healthfulness of the climate may be given on the
authority of the same medical gentleman to whom I have been in-
debted for many of the above particulars.  The number of cases of
consumption which have occurred in the Stirling Dispensary since
its institution down to February 11 of this year, amounts to 26 ; the
number of all diseases to 2809. These give a ratio of 1 in 108
cases.  In England the ratio, in every place where it has been de-
termined, is much higher. In Worcester, it is 1 in 22; in Lon-
don, 1 in 19; in Bolton-le-Moors, 1 in 21; in Plymouth, 1 in
32; and at the Land's End, 1 in 28. In other words, for every
case of consumption that occurs in Stirling, 4 1/2 cases occur in the
places just enumerated. The relative mortality from consumption

<FOOTNOTE>W.H. Forrest, Esq.


