
790                            FIFESHIRE.

fence, and is supposed to have been near the gate which formed
the principal entrance to the castle.  Within the memory of some
individuals in the parish, there was another tower to the north of
the castle, which contained an oven, and had been devoted to cu-
linary porposes.
     The castle is situated on a gently rising ground, and in ancient
times, before Lordscairnie Myre was drained, in the midst of
which is placed, must have been surrounded with water, and
nearly inaccessible.
     This celebrated member of the Craufurd family was strongly
imbued with the factious and turbulent spirit of the age in which
he lived.  He was engaged on frequent bloody disputes with the
nobility and gentry of his neighbourhood, and all occasions he
displayed great ferocity and courage.  Near Arbroath, he de-
feated the Ogilvies, a powerful family in Angus, in a pitched
battle; and after having slaughtered them in great numbers,
plandered their houses, wasted their lands, and made captives
their wives and children.  Like many of the feudal barons of
those days, he not only quarrelled with his neigbours and equals,
but rebelled against the authority of his sovereigns. He entered
into a league with the Earl of Douglas and the Lod of the Isles,
two of the most powerful nobles of the kingdom, to dethrone
James II. and subvert his government. Lord Huntly, a nobleman
of great talent and bravery, was employed biy his sovereigns to
put down this unjust and unnatural rebellion.  Having collected
a respectable army, be attacked Craufurd, who was posted with
his forces in a moor near Breachin, and, after this humiliating defeat,
Craufurd, through the influence of Huntly, made ghis peace with
the King.  While James was travelling through Angus, receiving
the homage of his subjects, Craufurd suddenly presented himself
before the King, clothed in mean apparel, with his head and feet
bare, and attended by a few miserable-lloking rugged servants,
and throwing himself on his knees, he humbly confessed his guilt
and implored forgiveness.  THe King, moved by his penitence
and professions of attachment, and persuaded by the entreaties of
his barons, mercifully pardoned his treasons, and generously re-
stored him the lands and titles which he had justly forfeited by
his rebellious conduct.  Craufurd appears to have been deeply
affected by the kindness and lenity of his sovereign.  He accom-
panied James in his tour through the country, etertained him



