
412                          AYRSHIRE.

distant from the village of Barr. The post-office is also there.
But a penny-post has been established lately on alternate days.
There are only twenty-five miles of turnpike road in this huge
parish, and no public carriage. There are three small bridges,
and few fences.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was built at a remote
period. It is conveniently situated, and in tolerable repair. It
contains 390 sittings: a central seat is reserved for the poor, suffi-
cient to accommodate 8. The manse was built in 1804, and is a
good substantial house. The glebe may be estimated at L. 18
per annum; and the stipend is 15 chalders, half meal, half barley,
with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. There is no chapel of
any kind, missionary, nor catechist. The average attendance at
church is good, but very variable, in consequence of the popula-
tion being much scattered. On a fine day, summer or winter, there
are not many empty seats,--on a bad day, there may not be 100
people present. The a verage is probably 250; and the commu-
nicants above 300, nearly the whole adult population. There
was a religious Association for some years, but it has fallen asleep.
There are now four annual collections for the four schemes of the
General Assembly, yielding from L. 3 to L. 4 each.
	Education.--There is only one parochial school, and no other
regular school; but in the remote parts of the parish, in the win-
ter months, it is common for families to unite together, as con-
vinience permits, and employ a teacher; it is thus chiefly that
the children are taught; and, considering the insufficiency of the
means, it is surprising how well and how generally the education
of the young is advanced. Maternal care and assiduity are the
chief substitutes for better opportunities. The parochial school-
master enjoys the maximum salary, with the legal accommodation,
and fees charged from 1s. and 1s. 6d. a month, according to the
branches taught, which are all ordinary ones, with Latin occasion-
ally,--and amounting to about L. 15 per annum. So far as known,
there is not one person between six and fifteen years of age who
cannot read, and very few who cannot also write. Inability to do
the one or the other is felt as a degradation.
	Library.--A parish library was instituted a few years ago, and
proceeds slowly but progressively. It now contains 160 volumes.
The reading disposition, however, is limited to a few.
	Friendly Society.--A Friendly Society, for aid to the sick, was
               			4

