
132                       RENFREWSHIRE.

for providing communion elements, and a glebe of 7 1/2 acres.
Part of the incumbent's emoluments he, like his predecessors,
derives as superior of a piece of land called Ladyacre, which
was an ancient mortification for the support of an altar dedicated
to the virgin, and which in popish times adorned the church of Inch-
innan.  In all charters granted by the ministers of Inchinnan in
virtue of the superiority referred to, they have uniformly styled
themselves undoubted chaplains of the altarage and altar com-
monly called our Lady's Altar of old, founded and situated in the
kirk and parish of Inchinnan.  The teind and feu-duty annually
arising from this source amount to L. 1, 5s. 5d.  The attachment
of a superiority to a living occurs nowhere else in Scotland in simi-
lar circumstances, and the popish title connected with it is a still
more extraordinary anomaly.
   The church and manse of Inchinnan have been erected since the
admission of the present incumbent, and have ample accommoda-
tion. *  They are placed at the eastern extremity of the parish,
which is somewhat inconvenient, and it would be an improvement
if a portion at the extreme west were annexed to Erskine, and what
is called Abbot's Inch, in the parish of Renfrew, annexed to Inch-
innan.  Preaching from a tent on sacramental occasions has been
given up for about twenty years. +  There are four elders belong-
ing to the kirk-session.  Nearly the whole of the population be-
longs to the Established Church.  Only two agricultural families
are attached to dissent.  One of these recently came from another
parish.  The other affords the only instance in the course of two
generations of an aboriginal family leaving the Establishment, while
the roll of communicants, amounting to nearly 200, contains not a
few names originally connected with the dissenting interest.  The
minister is accustomed to visit the dissenters, and also the few fa-
milies of Irish Roman Catholics who are resident, just as he does
the members of the Established Church, and has been uniformly
received in the kindest manner.  A Roman Catholic recently re-

<FOOTNOTE>A charter granted by the Rev. Robert M'Auley in 1704 commences thus:
" Omnibus hanc chartam visuris vel audituris Magister Robertus M\Cauley apud
ecclesiam de Inchinan ac undubitatus capellanus alteragii et altaris vulgo vocat our
Lady's Altar fundat. et olim situat. infra ecclesiam parochialem de Inchinan, &c. no-
veritis me dedisse, concessisse," &c.
   The last charter, granted in the year 1821, begins thus: " To all and sundry to
whose knowledge these presents shall come, I, the Rev, William Richardson, Doctor
in Divinity, Minister of the Gospel, and of the kirk and parish of Inchinnan, and un-
doubted Chaplain of the altarage and altar, commonly called our Lady's Altar, and
as such, undoubted superior of the lands after-mentioned," &c.
   The older inhabitants were greatly attached to the tent, and their attachment had
been fostered by a venerable incumbent, who was wont to declare, in his own pecu-
liar phraseology, that the tent afforded the best specimen of " visible religion" any-
where to be found.


