
			ARDROSSAN.                                203

20 feet of depth at high water. It is secure against almost all winds,
--the roll of the sea in a storm is very inconsiderable; and in rough
weather it is frequently crowded with vessels, which flee thither
for safety. Its situation is the most favourable on the whole frith,
both for inland purposes and foreign intercourse. Vessels in the
coal trade, both from Irvine and Saltcoats, often come to Ardros-
san to complete their cargo, where they can be fully loaded at any
state of the tide. The number of arrivals including steamers, at
this quay, for the year ending 1st of January last, is as follows:

<TABLE>

             Number of vessels,				1963
             Amount of tonnage,                             108,549
             Number of hands employed, men and boys          10,110
	Life-boat.--Belonging to the harbour there is an excellent life-
boat, the gift of the late Earl, which has successfully been employ-
ed several times within these few years, in rescuing seamen from the
wrecks of their vessels on the Stevenston shore.
	Railway.--In forming the harbour of Ardrossan, Lord Eglin-
ton entertained the firm belief, that, from its advantageous posi-
tion, it would one day become the harbour of Glasgow, and there-
by render unnecessary the circuitous navigation of the Clyde. To
carry this design into execution, to unite the harbour and the town
of Glasgow, a canal was projected, but was never finished further
than from Glasgow to Johnstone, in Renfrewshire. In 1827, an
act of Parliament was obtained to form a railway from Ardrossan to
join the canal at Johnstone. The capital raised, however, was only
sufficient to complete a single line of railway to Kilwinning, a distance
of six miles inland, with a branch of about four miles in length into
the Eglinton coal-fields. It was opened in 1832. For two years after-
wards, there was comparatively little trade on it; but in 1834, the
present Earl of Eglinton having opened up several additional coal
pits, the shipping of coal at Ardrossan was begun, and has since been
carried on with great spirit. It is believed that the gross tonnage
carried along the railway during last year, (1836,) was not less
than 60,000 tons. About the same time, (1834,) a carriage for
the conveyance of passengers between Ardrossan and Irvine, and
the intermediate towns on the line, was started; but such was the
uncertainty of its succeeding by running at regular hours, that it
was kept to be hired for pleasure trips. The Railway Company
however, took the business into their own hands, and ran at fixed
and regular hours; since which time, the trade in that department
has regularly increased. The number of passengers for the three
last years is as follows:


