
956                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

acquisition, occupied by persons whose active habits engage them
eagerly in the business of improvement.  Yet, even over these large
estates the spirit of improvement has passed.  Tenants readily
adopt, and landlords in general liberally encourage, any change of
system which promises to be beneficial ; and the marked improve-
ment of both stock and tillage does ample credit to the enterprise
and intelligence of store-farmers and agriculturists, and to the en-
lightened liberality with which these are fostered.
   In some instances, the proprietors themselves, and in particular
the greatest proprietor in the Upper Ward, take the lead as im-
provers of our rural economy.  The influence of their example
is beyond calculation beneficial, spreading even to the remotest
of their tenantry.  In their more immediate vicinity, this influ-
ence is of course more perceptible, seconded as it necessarily is
by the more particular attention which they are led to pay to
places under their daily observation.  On the lands in their own
occupation, the effects of this improving spirit are more especially
apparent.  Year after year these lands rise, under their judicious
management, in increasing beauty and fertility; and the traveller
who has an opportunity of marking these progressive changes, and
of comparing their present state with what it was within his own
not very remote recollection, is impressed with a deep and delight-
ed conviction of the benefit conferred upon a land by such resi-
dent proprietors.  These are the men who are best entitled to the
praise of substantial patriotism--being essential benefactors to
their country.  And while they see around them a pleased and hap-
py peasantry constantly maintained in their employment; a neigh-
bouring population thriving by the circulation thus given to a part
of their wealth; while the effects of their improving operations open
progressively to their view; while new schemes of improvement are
constantly occupying their minds, and they anticipate, in enlight-
ened speculation, the results of these schemes in distant futurity--
their lot is surely as enviable as their example is laudable ; and
they open up to themselves sources of rational and salutary
gratification, which would be poorly exchanged for all that courts
or cities could offer.
   Ancient Families.--The most considerable of the ancient families
whicb still hold possessions in Lanarkshire, are the Ducal family of
Hamilton, of which the Belhaven and Dalziel families are branches.
The Douglas, long the first family in rank and power, next to the royal
family in Scotland, still lineally represented, though latterly through


