
            	 	KIRKINTILLOCH.                      191

   The proclamations, as here given, are at the rate of one marriage
to about every 113 individuals, which is about the usual average
in this quarter of Scotland, sometimes a little more, and sometimes
a little less. In Hamilton it is 117, and in England generally
120. There is one baptism to every 60 persons, which is about
twice too much : the true number is probably about 30. Accord-
ing to this computation, the total number of baptisms in the parisb,
among Churchmen and Dissenters, will be about 1600 or upwards.
The deaths, as far as can be ascertained, are about one to 120.
Members of families, 1114 ; inhabited houses, 615 ; houses, unin-
habited or building, 1. Illegitimate births about 7 per annum.
   State of Landed Property.-In the beginning of the fourteenth
century, the whole parish, excepting the burgh lands of Kirkin-
tilloch, and the barony of Western Gartshore, (which has for
many ages been possessed by that ancient and respectable family,
Gartshore of Gartshore,) was the entire property of the Noble fa-
mily of Flemings, Earls of Wigton. Lord Elphinstone, in 1735,
married Clementina, the only daughter and heiress of John,
the last Earl, at whose death in 1778, the male line of that house
became extinct. Lady Clementina Fleming lived till 1799, when
she died at the advanced age of eighty. The Honourable Admi-
ral Fleming, second son of John, eleventh Lord Elphinstone, is
now the beir-general to the whole Wigton estates. The last of
the property in this parish belonging to the family was sold off in
1757, but they still retain the feu-duties, and some other casual-
ties of feudal superiority. Admiral Fleming has held some of the
highest appointments in the British navy, and is now on the chief
command at Portsmouth. He is equally distinguished for his pub-
lic and private worth and intelligence ; and it is to him, and that
excellent patriot, the late Sir Peter Murray of Auchtertyre, the
father of Captain Gartshore of Gartshore, that the public are in-
debted for the very superior roads which everywhere intersect this
district of country.
   The family of Gartshore, as above stated, is of great antiquity,
and has long resided in this part of the country. The present re-,
presentative of the family, Captain Murray Gartshore, second son
of Sir Peter Murray of Auchtertyre, with his excellent and amiable
lady, a daughter of Sir Howard Douglas, Bart. her Majesty's Com-
missioner for the United States of the Ionian Islands, has of late
resided chiefly on his estate in this parish, where he is universally
beloved and respected. It is understood that be is about to erect
a new house among the fine plantations near the Barr-hill. To



