
    16                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

    of the people. "It is, indeed, one of the most striking evidences
    of the progress of civilization, and one of the most pleasing effects
    of a regular government, that, in a country formerly the scene of
    depredating violence, fewer instances of crimes, or of punishments,
    have occurred during the last fifty years, than perhaps in any other
    district of equal extent in the kingdom."
				IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.-
    The number of acres in the parish, which are either cultivated or occasionally in til-
     lage, is, as nearly as can be ascertained,                                    14,281
    The number of acres which remain constantly in pasture is                        6930
                        under wood is                                                2488

	In the vicinity of Jedburgh the highest cultivation prevails.
	Rent of Land.-The annual rent of the fields adjoining the
    town is from L.4 to L.5 per acre. The general average is L.2,10s.
    per acre. The average rent of grazing is at the rate of from L.2,
    15s. to L. 5 per ox or cow, and at the rate of 12s for Leicester,
    and 6s. for Cheviot sheep.
	Rate of Wages.-The wages of ploughmen are paid by means
    of grain, potatoes, and the pasture of a cow, together with a small
    allowance of money, and amount to about L. 26 per annum. Other
    farm-labourers receive 1s. 8d. per day, and women 10d. Smiths
    generally contract at the rate of from L. 2, 10s. to L. 2, 15s. per
    annum, for keeping in repair a plough, and a pair of harrows, and
    for shoeing a pair of horses; furnishing for this purpose the neces-
    sary iron. Carpenters receive from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per day; masons
    2s. 6d. per day. The price of manure per cart load is 3s. 6d.; and
    the price of lime 11d.
	Husbandry.- The husbandry generally pursued is the five-brick
    or five-shift husbandry, consisting of two white and three green crops.
    During the last twenty years, an immense quantity of waste land
    has been reclaimed, and in a short period, all that is capable of
    improvement will be reduced to a state of cultivation. The gene-
    ral  duration of leases is nineteen years, which, on the whole, is fa-
    vourable both to the landlord and the tenant. The farm-buildings
    are mostly new and commodious; the inclosures are numerous, and
    kept in good repair. The improvements which have been effected
    on the estate ot Hunthill, consisting of draining, planting, &c. are
    deserving of particular notice, and reflect great credit on the spirited
    proprietor Mr Bell.
	Quarries,-There are several excellent quarries in the parish,
    both of white and of a reddish-coloured sandstone.


