
                              SPOTT.                          227

   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of the parochial regis-
ters is, of births 1748, of marriages 1789. There is no register
of deaths. The above appear to have been regularly kept.
   Antiquities.-Besides the remains of General Leslie's camp on
Doonhill, there are still visible the remains of another camp on a
hill to the south-west of the village, supposed to be of Roman, or
perhaps Danish origin. Part of an ancient spear was lately found
near this camp, and is now in possession of the proprietor of Spott.
   The parish and village of Spott was of old renowned as the
habitation of witches. In the kirk-session records, dated 1698,
we find the following statement: "The session, after a long ex-
amination, of witnesses, refer the case of Marion Lillie, for impre-
cations and witchcraft, to the presbytery, who refer her for trial to
the civil magistrate; the said Marion generally called the Rig-
woody witch:" and in October 1705, "many witches burnt on the
top of Spot Loan."  It is generally believed, that the last witch
who was executed in Scotland was burnt at Spott; a stone com-
memorative of the event, and marking the place of execution, is to
be seen a little way to the cast of the manse.
   Modern Buildings.-Of these, the principal are the mansion-
houses of Spott and Bowerhouses. The former is delightfully
situated at the foot of Doon hill, on the side of a ravine formed
by the rivulet mentioned above, and commanding a beautiful and
extensive view of the flat country about Dunbar-the Bass Rock,
Isle of May, and south-east coast of Fife. The latter, though
situated considerably lower down, near the northern boundary of
the parish, commands the same extensive view. Spott House has
undergone considerable repairs since it came into the possession
of the present proprietor. The mansion house of Bowerhouses is
entirely new, and not yet fit, indeed, for habitation. The parish
church is very old, and cannot boast of any beauty, either in point
of architecture or situation. Part of it is said to be Saxon. The
parish school-room, and schoolmaster's house, have been lately re-
built, and are both elegant and convenient. There are two oat-
meal mills in the parish.

                         <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
             In  1755, the amount of population was 727
                 1791,                              619
                 1801,                              502
                 1811,                              561
                 1821,                              582
                 1831,                              612
              In 1831, there were of males, 308, of females, 304.


