
672                       FORFARSHIRE.

bles, which also forms the cement of the grains or particles of the
finer sandstones, is of a ferro-calcareous nature, and occurs in some
of the beds of the latter in a pure calcareous state, in the form of
nodules varying from one to four inches in diameter, and occasion-
ally larger. Thus whole portions of the rock become nearly cal-
careous, good examples of which are exhibited in the section of the
Melgum. The largest mass of this nature, however, occurred on
the opposite side of the line, on the farm of Reedie. It was for-
merly wrought for lime, but all the portions available for this pur-
pose are understood to be now exhausted. Traces of fossil fishes,
similar to those found in the red sandstone of the Carse of Gow-
rie, at Clashbennie, have been observed at the Grange of Airlie,
in a quarry of the mottled sandstone; and it is probable that, by
more careful investigation, more perfect specimens may be dis-,
covered, both there, and in other quarries of the same description.
   Throughout great part of this parish, the rocks are under cover
of debris, of various depth and composition. Where the cover is
thin, it consists almost entirely of `braded portions of the subja-
cent rock. In the flat grounds and hollows, where it is deeper, it
is composed partly of the same materials, and partly of debris from
the higher grounds, consisting of a mixture of sand, gravel, and
Grampian boulders of various sizes, mingled without regular layers,
and impermeable to water. This impervious debris, or till, is in
this part of the country provincially termed mortar, from one kind
of it having been formerly much used as a cement in building.
   The rock and till, throughout two-thirds of the parish, are over-
spread by sands and gravels. These commence at the mouth of
the gorge below Airlie Castle, and spread out in great breadth to
the east along the hollow towards the Kirktown, and to the south
across the western face of the Lindertis ridge, covering almost the
whole of the flat bottom on the south. At the place where these
gravels leave the course of the Isla, that river takes a sudden bend
to the west, and is margined by a similar band of gravels, but not
nearly to the same breadth as those which diverge from the course.
of the river, and keep right forward over the high grounds in front.
Covers of this nature have recently excited great interest. They
are held by some geologists to have originated from the action of
glaciers; and, by whatever cause they may have been produced, ht

must evidently have been one much more powerful than any at pre-
sent  in operation.
   The gravelly cover is generally acervated into low rounded hil-
                                 3


