
142                                SHETLAND.

as an infallible cure, -but which also serves a charm against future attacks. This is
nearly allied to a practice which was at one time very prevalent, and of which somj
traces may perhaps. still exist, in what would be considered a more civilised part of
the world. of wearing a small piece of the branch of the roan-tree, wrapped around
with red thread, and sewed into some part of the garments, to -guard against the ef.
fects of an 11 evil eye," or witchcraft,
                        "Roan-tree and red thread
                         Will drive the witches a' wud."
   When a cow has calved, it is the practice with some, as soon after as possible, to set a
cat on her neck and draw it by the tail to the hinder part of the cow; and then to
set it on the middle of the covers back, and draw it down the one side and pull it up
the other,. tail foremost, that the cow may be preserved while it) a weak state, from
being carried away by the 11 trows." This is enclosing the cow, as it were, in a ma-
gic circle.
   As the trows are said to have a particular relish for what is good. both in meat and
drink; so when avow or sheep happens to turn sick or die, it is firmly believed that
they h ve been shot by an elfin-arrow, and that the real animal has been taken away
and something of a trowie breed substituted in its place.  And some who have been
admitted into 'the interior ofa trow's dwelling, assert that they have beheld their own
cow led in to be slaughtered, while, at the same time, their friends on the surikee of
the earth, saw her fall by an unseen hand or tumble over a precipice.  Sometimes,
also, the trows require: nurse of their children, for it would appear,they too have
&'time to be born and time to die, and therefore females new,   y confi ed must needs
be watched ve!y nafrrgowlyj lest they be carried off to perform the office of wet-nurse
to some trowlIng of gentle blood, who has either lost its mother, or whose station
among her own race, exempts her from the drudgery ofnursing her own offspring.
There is one place in the parish, called 11 Trolhouland," a name which indicates the su-
perstitious notions with which it is associated: it signifies "the high land ofthe trows.'
The internal recesses of knolls are considered the favourite residences of the trows,
and they are seldom passed without fear and dread by the inhabitants of the upper
world.  And when, after nightfall, there may be a necessity for passing that way, a
live coal is carried to ward'off their attacks. For many centuries, the same supfrsti-
tious belief has prevailed in Norway, that certain places were the favoured haunts of
malevolent genii, There is their -11 Trolhetta;" and in Iceland, 11 Troladyngiar,"
and "Trollakyrkia."
   Taking away and recovering Milk and Butterpreflis.-That a person may take
away and procure for herself the summer profits    of her neighbour's cows, it is the
practice to ro clandestinely and pluck an handful of grass from the roof of the byre,
and give it ice her own cows, thereby supposing that the milk and butter which should
have been her Deighbour's, will by this means become hers.  And, in order to regain
the profits which are supposed to have been taken away, it is usual to milk in private
a cow belonging to the person who is suspected of having taken them, and thereby to
Get them back,
   Neogle.-There is also a 11 trow" called a "Neagle," somewhat akin to the wa-
ter-kelpie of other lands, who makes his appearance about mills, particularly when
grinding, in the shape of a beautiful poney.  That he may attract the attention of
the person who acts the part of the miller, he seizes and holds fast the wheel of the
mill ; and, as is natural, the miller goes out to examine into the cause of the stop-
page; when, to his astonishment, a beautiful poney saddled and bridled, is standing,
and ready to be mounted ; who but an old miller could let slip such a fair opportunity
for 4 ride? . -But if he should neglect warnings, and unguardedly put his foot in
-the stirrup, his fate is sealed.  Neither bit or I;iidle avail him any thing.  Offgoes
the Pon , bog or bank arrest not his course, till in the deep sea he throws his r1i'der
and nzf evanishes in a flash of flame.  But some millers are proof against tUe
temptation, having been taught caution by-the fate of others; and instead-of taking
a. ride. salute his-Neogleship with a fiery brand through the lightning-tree hole,
which makes him immediately scamper away.
   Such are some of the prevailing superstitious notions, which have no doubt been
derived from the early Scandinavian settlers, and which, there is as little doubt, were
fostered and made giin of, till the time of the Reformation, by the lower orders of
the  Roman Catholfe clergy. And, if they should still retaia a hold, to a certain ex-
tent in the minds of some of the more ignorant, we need not be much surprised.
But that those who have received a more liberal education, and consequently should
be better able-to appreciate the truths of Cbrjadanity should lend Meir influence to
foster such notions, would hardly be credited in the nineteenth century, if facts did


