
   164                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   Benbecula, is studded with a great cluster of islands of various sizes.
   Grimisay, the largest of these, formerly considered of little value,
   now supports 40 families. At the southernmost point of North
   Uist is the island of Ronny which at one time was of littlefivalue,
   but is now improved by culture, and considered one of the most
   valuable grazings in the parish.
     Besides those described, there are three islands or large rocks
   which lie opposite the west coast, and which, from time immemo-
   rial, have been attached to the farms opposite to them, in various
   divisions. These are still retained possession of, not for their pas-
   ture,-for pasture there is none,-but for the seals they pro-
   duce. In the proper season, under certain regulations, a boat
   is sent to each rock. the crew being furnished with large clubs,
   which they use dexterously. When successful, the division is made
   according to ancient rule, with scarcely a murmur or dispute. The
   proprietor is entitled to four, and the minister to one seal. This
   the latter receives not as a tithe, but because the glebe compre-
   hends a part of a farm which is entitled to a share of the rock.
      There are agreat number of islands in the inlets of tbe sea; and
   also in the fresh-water lakes. The larger and more important
   islands in the latter have become the principal resort of the red deer.
     Diseases.-Typbus fever, formerly so intal, is now hardly
   known. This may undoubtedly be ascribes to the change in the
   habitations of the people, which took place in consequence
   of the lotting system. Before this system was introduced, the
   whole houses on a farm, to the number of from 20 to 50, were
   crowded and huddled together in a manner most unfriendly to
   cleanliness; but now, every small tenant has his cottage on his own
   croft, each at some distance from his neighbour's. The climate,
   notwithstanding, cannot besaid to be unhealthy, and, though bu-
   mid, less rain falls here than in Skye, where the exceedingly high
   mountains attract the clouds with a force conveying them over and
   beyond this comparatively flat country.
      Hydrography.-We have stated that there are numerous
   fresh water lakes of considerable extent; with some of these
   the sea communicates at high tides. They are inhabited by a few
   salmon and trout of various kinds, and of good quality and flavour.
   Though there are no fresh water streams deserving the name of
   river, there are some inlets of the sea of great strength. and rapi-
   dity. Over threeof these, wooden bridges have been erected,
   which have immensely shortened the line of road.


