42                             AYRSHIRE.

still existing in this district, that after some grate battle, two Kings,
Coilus and Fergus, gave their names, the former to Coil and Coyl-
ton, the latter to Loch Fergus, and Mount Fergus in this parish,
local tradition assigns the site of the battle to the parish of Dal-
rymple, which is not in any degree probable. The armies on both
sides must have been numerous, since according to Buchanan,
Coilus could easily spare five thousand men to be placed in am-
buscade, and the narrow vale of the Doon, in the above parish,
could afford no eligible ground for such a conflict. On the other
hand, the lower part of this parish flanked by its two rivers, with
the sea in front, and the undulating ground behind, even at the
present day, could yield to no other locality in point of advanta-
geous battle ground. Besides, the expression on the banks ofthe
Doon towards the Irish Sea, is sufficient to settle the point, as the
Irish Sea could only mean the Bay of Ayr,--not then known by that
name, and being a continuation of the Irish Sea.
	Cromwell's Fort.--Oliver Cromwell seems to have had two ob-
jects in view, by the erection of the citadel now called the Fort.
In the first place, he intended it to serve as a military station for a
large body of troops, to overawe and defend the west and south of
Scotland; and, secondly, he wished by its means to secure the
command of the town and harbour of Ayr, both at that time of
more importance, from the state of the times, than they are at pre-
sent. In correspondence with these objects, the citadel itself was
both capacious and stronfly fortified. As we have seen no account
given of it in any other work, and as it is an object of considerable
interest as connected with the antiquities of Ayr, we shall conclude
our notices on this subject by a short description of its plan and
construction, which we are enabled to present from the notes of a
friend who has examined it for us minutely, and who is a compe-
tent judge of works of this kind. The area within the walls, which
on three sides are yet entire, is about twelve-acres in extent. The
ground plan is a hexagon, with bastions at the angles, but the fi-
gure is not regular, the two sides facing the sea and the town be-
ing much longer than any of the others. The situation is between
the town and the mouth of the river, and the strongest works front
the latter. The main bastion, occupying the north-eastern angle,
close upon the harbour, and next the town, commands the entire
circuit of the fortifications, the river, and the town itself. It has
still an elevation above the water of forty-five feet, and is suppos,
ed to occupy the site of the ancient palace and castle of Ayr, built


