                            GLENROOSS.                     315

at the southern extremity of the parish, had been conferred by
James V. upon his favourite, Oliver Sinclair, who commanded the
Scottish army at the rout of Solway. To the offence given to his
nobles by the ill-judged elevation of that person over them, is to
be attributed the calamitous issue of that battle, and subsequent
death of the King, who died a few days afterwards of a broken
heart, leaving his daughter Mary an infant only eight days old.
To a circumstance accidentally connected with this place is to be
traced the fatal termination of the misfortunes of that unfortunate
princess. Hamilton of Bothwelhaugh, who was a zealous supporter
of Mary against the ambitious views of the Regent Murray, had
been at the battle of Langside, and shared in the misfortunes of
the vanquished in that unsuccessful attempt to reinstate Mary in
her kingdom. His lady, Isabella Sinclair, the daughter of Oliver
Sinclair, and heiress of Woodhouselee, fled from Bothwelhaugh
to this place, in the hope that she would escape the vengeance of
the Regent for her husband's crimes, in her own paternal estate;
but in this she was sadly disappointed, for, by the order, or, at
least, with the consent of the Regent, she was turned out at night,
in the month of November, exposed, almost without any covering,
to the severities of that inclement season, and before morning was
in a state of complete derangement, from which she never after-
wards recovered. From that time, Hamilton vowed the destruc-
tion of the Regent, which he accordingly effected at Linlithgow
about nine months afterwards. At the time of the Regent's death,
negotiations were in progress for the delivering up of Mary into
his hands, as Elizabeth felt there was not only trouble but danger
attending the long detention of her unfortunate rival. The Regent's
death, however, having disappointed Elizabeth's hopes of getting
rid of Mary in a way that accorded with her views and inclination,
probably determined her to the cruel line of policy she adopted
with respect to her, and which eventually led to the catastrophe
that terminated the life of that unhappy Princess.
   The battle of Pentland hills was fought at Rullion Green in
this parish, on the 28th November 1666. The Covenanters, com-
manded by Colonel Wallace, were attacked by the King's troops,
under the command of General Dalziel of Binns, on the position
which they had taken up on the morning of that day, on a rising
ground, a little to tbe south of Turnhouse hill, and defeated with
considerable slaughter.
   There is a stone erected at the place to the memory of those
who fell on that occasion, called the "Martyrs' tomb."


