
                          PAISLEY.                           297

ing, among between 600 and 700 individuals.  There are also
institutions for the support of a school for educating the children
of Roman Catholics; for instructing the Deaf and Dumb; for
Gaelic Missions; for reformation of manners; for promoting
temperance, &c.  These are all conducted on the usual principles,
and receive more or less of public countenance.
   Jail and Bridewell.-These were erected in 1820, and, in point
of situation, security, healthfulness, and general arrangement of
rooms, are unexceptionable.  But they are both grievously defec-
tive in regard to the means of solitary confinement, of suitable
classification, and of moral and religious instruction.
   In the Jail, there are nineteen apartments for prisoners confined
on criminal warrants, and fifteen for prisoners on other warrants.
Since the act was passed, limiting the imprisonment of debtors
to sums above L. 8, 6s. 8d., very few prisoners of this description
have been incarcerated ; and thus greater facilities are afforded for
accommodating prisoners of a different description. The number of
criminal prisoners of all kinds during last year has been 319 ; and
of debtors, 195.  Of male criminals there have been 264; and of
females, 55.  Of both classes, 29 were under fifteen years of age.
Of the whole number of criminals, 72 could neither read nor write.
The number of prisoners at present, debtors and criminals, is 54.
There are three small yards intended for airing grounds; but
they are never used.  Neitlier keeper, nor turnkey reside within
the jail, but in front of it.  No kind of work is permitted within
the jail.
   The Bridewell contains forty two cells; an hospital for the sick;
and two airing grounds.  The average number of inmates' is 32;
at present there are 39; of these 30 are males, and 9 females.
At an average of the usual inmates, 6 or 7. are under seven-
teen years of age.  A teacher attends one hour a day.  There
are at present 4 that cannot read, and this is generally the ave-
rage.  The inmates are employed in weaving, picking wool and
foreign skins; winding yarn, veining or hand-sewing, &c.  The
produce of work in 1835 was L. 192, 18s 5d.; and the gross ex-
penditure was L. 273; the difference being made up by a grant
from the police assessment.  The diet is porridge and milk to
breakfast, broth and bread to dinner; two weals a day; and on
Sabbath, broth and a portion of beef are allowed.
   The numbers committed during last year were 188; of these


