
                                  RATHVEN.                  261

During the year 1723, a fishing-boat and crew, belonging to the
Duke of Gordon, removed from Gollachie, which is situated about
a mile westward of Buckie, as being a safer and more commodious
situation. About that period, the proprietor of Nether Buckie,
who held his lands in feu from the Duke, had only one boat; and
as he was out of the kingdom, and considerably in arrears of his
feus to the Duke, the desired accommodation was the more rea-
dily obtained. At present, there are 117 large boats, and 28
small, employed in the various fisheries.
   Porteasy.-This village is situated nearly two miles east from
Buckie. In the year 1727, it was known as a fishing-station, and
contained five houses, which were built by Hay of Rannes, at that
time the proprietor, for the accommodation of the original fisher-
men, who came from Findhorn, in Morayshire, to settle there.
The writer of the last Statistical Report says, " that he obtained
this information from a man aged ninety, who was a native of this
parish, and helped to man the first boat." This village contains
a population of 420. They have 27 large boats, and 12 small
ones.
   Findochtie.-Findochtie lies two miles from Porteasy, and con-
tains a population of 414. A colony of fishermen settled here
from Fraserburgh in 1716. They possess amongst them 24 large
boats, and 15 small.
   Portnockie.-Portnockie, the property of the Earl of Seafield,
contains a population of 800, and attached, quoad sacra, to Cullen,
is two miles to the eastward of Findochtie. "The following an-
ecdote," says the late Rev. Mr Donaldson, " ascertains its origin as
a fishing-station. About twenty years ago, died Kattie Slater, aged
ninety-six. Like many old people, she was unable to tell her age
precisely; but she recollected that she was as old as the House of
Farskane, as her father had often told her that he built the first
house in Portnockie, the same year in which the house of Farskane
was built; and that she was brought from Cullen to it, and rocked
in a fisher's scull, instead of a cradle." Now, from the date on
the house of Farskane, it appears to have been built in 1677.
Thus the origin of this village is fixed with sufficient accuracy.
It contains 800 inhabitants, and has 70 large boats, and 27
small.
   Portgordon.--This village, of which the Duke of Richmond
is now proprietor, was named from the late Noble Dukes of Gor-
don. It contains a population  of 470, and is attached, quoad sacra,



