
                                    PERTH.                           47

       subjected to inundations. The most remarkable of these were in
       1210, 1621, 1740, 1773, and 1814. A particular account of that
       which occurred in 1210 is given by Fordun in his Scotichronicon.
       There is an account of it given also by Major or Mair, an author of
       the fifteenth century, and by Guthrie, an author of the eighteenth
       century. But that of Fordun appears to be the most circumstan-
       tial, while it differs in nothing essential from the others. It is as
       follows:-" Some authors have asserted that in this year (1210,)
       about Michaelmas, there occurred such heavy falls of rain, that
       the rivers overflowed their usual channels, and swept away the
       crops from the fields. It is said that the rivers Almond and Tay
       became so much swolled, that the town of Perth was almost wholly
       inundated. A large mound or hillock (situated at the old junction
       of the Almond and Tay *) was forced down by the waters, and
       overthrew not only several houses, but the bridge over the Tay,
       and an old chapel. King William, his son Prince Alexander, and
       the Earl of Huntingdon, the King's brother, left the town in a small
       boat, and reached the dry land in safety. A few of the nobles who
       happened then to be at court accompanied them in other boats;
       others on the tops of houses, along with the town's people of both
       sexes, with difficulty escaped a watery grave; for in consequence
       of an extraordinary spring-tide, and the fall of vast torrents of rain,
       the river rose to such a height, that not boats merely, but large
       vessels could be impelled along the streets and broad ways with-
       out any difficulty or impediment." The historian Major ascribes
       the flood to the sudden and unexpected melting of snow in the
       upper quarters of the country.+

<FOOTNOTE>The old junction of these rivers was at the north end of the North Inch.
         In the kirk-session records I find the following entry relative to the inundation
       of 1621.- " Tuesday, 16th Oct. 1621.-The council and elders having convened,
       have ordered a voluntary collection to be uplifted of the haill inhabitants, for decla-
       ration of their thankfulness to God for their deliverance from the fearful inundation
       of water, threatening destruction both of the town and the inhabitants, to be applied
       for the use of the poor,-the manner whereof follows:- " An remembrance of God's
       visitation of Perth."
          " It is to be noted and put in register in this book, the great and miraculous de-
       liverance that the Lord gave to this burgh of Perth of an fearful inundation of water
       compassing the same in all parts, so that there through the Brig of Tay was hailly
       dung doun, except only one bow thereof standing. None could get furth of it, nor
       yet cum within it to make any relief thereto."
          " The manner of the rising of the water was this,-the rain began on Friday the
       12th October, about ten hours of the day; it continued that day and Saturday; and in

<FOOTNOTE>This catastrophe was ascribed to the lowness of the bows of the bridge. The
        water had not free issue through them; it rose above them, and being thus gorged,
        its force and weight bearing against the upper part of the structure, covered the key
        stones, and the whole at last gave way.



