
                           TORRYBURN.                                727

The average yearly amount of collections in the church for the
last five years is L. 17, 3s. 5d.
    Education.-There is one unendowed school besides the paro-
chial school ; the number of scholars at both together averaging
from 70 to 80. There is also a girl's school at Kemback mill,
partly supported by ladies in the parish.
    The parochial teacher has the full legal salary ; but the present
incumbent, being incapacitated from performing his duties, the he-
ritors at present employ another teacher in his place at a salary of
L.14 per annum.  He states his annual profit from fees at L. 16;
and he has also about L. 3 as session-clerk. The common
branches of elementary education only are taught, there being but
one pupil taking lessons in Latin.
    Poor.-The number of poor regularly supplied is from 15 to 20.
The amount of voluntary assessment is about L. 11, 10s., besides
which the session posses a fund bequeathed by one of the family
of Blebo, amounting to L. 250.
    Collections, L. 17, 3s. 5d.; assessment, L. 11, 10s.; interest
of fund, L. 10-L. 38, 13s. 5d.

    February 1843.


                   PARISH OF TORRYBURN.

      PRESBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FIFE.

        THE REV. THOMAS DOIG, A. M., MINISTER.


         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
    Name, &c.-THE parish of Torryburn consists of the united pa-
rishes of Torrie and Crombie. Crombie appears to have con-
sisted of the district of the present parish south of the burn of
Torrie, and of certain detached lands, distant about seven or
eight miles, and now annexed quoad sacra to the parish of Saline.
In lieu of these, the lands of Inzievar and Oakley, belonging,
quoad civilia, to the parish of Saline, but cut off by the interven-
ing parish of Carnock, have been annexed, quoad sacra, to Tor-
ryburn, Torry, the original name of the parish, to which these
annexations have been made, is said to signify, in, Gaelic, the


