
138                           LANARKSHIRE.

gow, and lived to see his foundery become the most extensive and
the most celebrated of an in Europe. At his death, the business
was carried on by his son, and continued by the family on a very
extensive scale for a number of years. As a considerable part of
their types went to London and Edinburgh, and as other type-
makers had commenced business here, the Messrs Wilsons, in 1834,
removed their business from this city, one part of it to London, and
the other to Edinburgh; Alexander conducting the London de-
partment, and Patrick the Edinburgh.
	Although the origin of stereotyping is uncertain, it is evident
that it was not invented by the French. If it be a modern inven-
tion, or there be any question as to the country in which it was first
used, the Scots are entitled to the preference; for there certainly
was an instance of the art having been used in Edinburgh many
years before the earliest date at which it is said, or is even suppos-
ed to have been used in France. And in evidence of this, refer-
ence is made to the original stereotyped page of Sallust, with the
plate and matrix, as well as a copy of the book, in the Hunterian
Museum at Glasgow. Mr Andrew Duncon introduced stereotyp-
ing into this city in 1818; and since that period, Messrs Hutchi-
son and Brookman, Edward Khull, Blackie and Son, and Fuller.
ton and Company, carry on the business of stereotyping to a very
great extent.
	Steam Engines as applicable to Manufactures.--As the great im-
provment on the steam-engine was made in Glasgow, a brief ac-
count of that mighty engine may not be improper here. The
steam-engine was invented in the reign of Charles II. by the Mar-
quis of Worcester, who, in the year 1663, published a book en-
titled A Century of Inventions. But as the Marquis, though not-
able as a theoretical projector, knew little of practical detail, Cap-
tain Savary took up the subject, and published a book in 1696, en-
titled the Miner's Friend, where he described the principles of his
improvement, for which he obtained a patent. About this time,
Mr Papin, a Frenchman, came to England, and becoming fami-
liar with the elastic power of steam, on his return home be was
employed by Charles, Landgrave of Hesse, to raise water by a ma-
chine which he constructed; and from this, his countrymen affect-
ed to consider him as the inventor of the steam-engine. In 1707,
he published-an account, of his inventions. Not long after this
Mr Amonton contrived a machine which he called a fire-wheel.
It consisted of a number of buckets placed in the circumference of


