
			    NEWTON.                          565


burgh which were called after him. The family was not only of
great antiquity, and from which a number of other families of distin-

<FOOTNOTE>upon no occasion whatsomever, quhither in baptism or marriage, to do anything con-
trair to ye laudable acts and customs of ye kirk. Quhilk ye brethr, considering in
sa farre as God has wrought a good work be him in getting yat provisioun to his kirk,
is content to pardon him; assuring him if evr he be found to faill anyway heirefter,
they will proceed to ye suspending of him fra his calling." The record also bears,
that at next meeting, "The moderator delivered to Mr Jas. Robeson a band of
ye laird of Edmondstone's of ane hundreth merkis yeirle to ye kirk of Natoun, to see
yat Mr John Melvine put it to ye register." It is subsequently reported, (22d April
1624,) by the aforesaid Mr James, "yat he had seen ye laird of Edmondstone's band
put to ye register in Mr Alex. Gibsone's bookes, and ane extract yairof given to Mr
John Melvine." This mortification has ever since been enjoyed by the incumbent.
   Mr John Melville, upon whom the want of a sufficient provision had produced such
bad effects, was still in want of a manse, for it appears that the promises made by the
heritors at the forecited visitation were not redeemed. A variety of proceedings on
this subject is recorded in the minutes. But the manse, after a time, was built at
the town of Newton about half a mile from the church, and that too at the minister's
expense in the first instance, for at his demise, (26th October 1638,) his relict applied
to the presbytery to have a valuation set upon it, as a necessary step towards claiming
reimbursement from his successor, which was done, and it was reported, (8th No-
vember,) that it was valued at 1000 merks by the tradesmen appointed for the pur-
pose. The heritors present acknowledged "ye expense upon ye said building to have
been debursed of ye charges of ye said Mr John Melvine."
   On the demise of Mr John Melville no steps were taken by the Crown to fill up
the vacancy, by presenting to the benefice, but the parishioners were left to provide
for themselves, which they did, first, by obtaining supply from the presbytery, and
then by agreeing with an expectant to take upon himself the duties of the cure, as
appears from the following extracts: 31st January 1639. "Quhilk day, at ye earnest
solicitatioun of ye parichoners of Natoun, the brethr yieldit to supplie ye place of
Natoun per vices till ye catalogue be endit. And appoyntes Mr James Porteous be-
gin yis nixt day, and to advyse with ye sessioun quhat gentlmen are most fitt to be
ruling elders in yat paroche." 12th December 1639. "Quhilk day ye gentlmen of
ye paroche of Natoun desyred ye brethr to further thame with some expectant, to
preach with thame till thair churche were provyded. The brethr desyres thame with
one consent to set theire eye upon ane expectant, and to forsee for his provision, and
to report to thame the nixt day." 19th December. "Quhilk day compeired Mr Pa-
trick Edmistoun of Womet, Mr Alex. Hay of Monkton, Mr D. Anderson of Hill,
in name of the remanent parochioners of Natoun, and earnestlie desyred the brethr
to be pleased to authorize Mr Robt. Carsane, one of their expectants, to teach with
thame, and Tabour in the word during the tyme of the vacancie of ye said kirk, and
they faithfullie promise to recompense the labours of the said Mr Robt. to his con-
tentment. Whereunto the brethr gladly accords, and authorizes the said Mr. Robt.,
and thanks thame for their caire in provyding for their churche and giving in their
contribution to the Commissioners of the General Assemblie." A visitation having
been appointed for the redressing of various evils, and particularly the "eyelis of
Lady Melrose of Sheriffhall, by a tree-trap having been erected to the pillar of repen-
tance, whereby her sight of the minister was intercepted," the proceedings thereat
bring distinctly out the state of matters at the date thereof. (21st May 1640.)
"Quhilk day preached Mr Andro Cant, moderator. Mr Robt. Carsone serving the
cure, (upon a supplication of the parochinars and heritors of Natoun given in to the
presbyterie before the Assemblie.) being removed, and the gentlemen heritors and
remanent parochinars being posed if they were edefiet be his doctrine, and if he was
of good lyff and conversatioun, -the whoile parochinars did approve him both for
lyff and doctrine. Mr Robt. being recalled, the samine was declared unto him, and
he was exhorted to continue. Mr Robt. being posed how often he did preach on the
Sabbath, answered once, because of the gritt distance of many of the parochinars from
the kirk; exhorted to preach twyse, especiallie in long dayes. The parishonars of
Natoun supplicat the brethr to deall for a presentatioun to the said Mr Robert. The
laird of Posso, baillie of the stewardrie of Dalkeith, protested that nothing were done
in prejudice of his Majestie, patrone of the said kirk, and yet promised his concur-
rence for lifting of the stipend to him quho suld serve the cure. The brethr desired


