
                          UNITED PARISHES OF

                       INVERKEITHING AND ROSYTH.

                PRESBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                  THE REV. ANDREW ROBERTSON, MINISTER.


                   I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY. 
   Name.--THE name is variously written; formely, it was Enderkey-
den, Henderkeyden, Enderkeithen, and Innerkeithing; at present,
it is Inverkeithing. It is said to be derived from the Gaelic, accord-
ing to one etymology, signifying "the mount of the Keith," the
rivulet which at this place falls into the sea; according to another,
"the confluence of the slow misty water with the sea;" according
to a third, "the entrance of the water into the sea between little
hills,"--with which last, appearances best correspond. Rosyth,
formerly Rosaith, is said to be also from the Gaelic, and to de-
note a tongue of land extending into the water.
   The parishes were united in 1636. The deed of annexation be-
ing lost, nothing certain is known about the terms of the union;
but it is said that the incumbent was to preach for two Sabbaths
successively in Inverkeithing, but on every third Sabbath at Ro-
syth.
   Topographical Appearances.--This parish is of a very irregular
figure. The Ferry hills form an indented, and somewhat circular pe-
ninsula, upward of a mile in diameter, with a neck about 300
yards broad. From this neck of land, the parish extends west-
ward upwards of three miles, (including the harbour of Bruce-
haven, and a small portion of Limekilns,) and runs northward to
Crossgates, 4 1/2 miles, and eastwood to Letham hill, about 1 mile.
Its general figure, (exclusive of the Ferry hills,) resembles two
arms stretched out nearly at right angles, embracing a part of the
parish of Dumfermline, and nowherE much exceeding a mile in
breadth. At one place, the parish of Dunfermline approaches with-
in half a mile of the burgh. The Frith of Forth is the southern and

   <FOOTNOTE>The scientific part of this account prepared by the Rev. Andrew Robertson,
Junior.


