
                        EDINBURGH.                        689

charter in 1780.  The members hold meetings during winter for
the discussion of antiquarian subjects; and they have collected a
museum of ancient armour, utensils, charters, coins, warlike weapons,
&c; which is open to the inspection of the public, in their hall
George Street.  The also from time to time publish a volume of
Transactions.
   Medico-Chirurgical Society.-This Society was formed for the
cultivation of medical and surgical knowledge; and consists of
members of the medical profession practicing in Edinburgh.  Du-
ring winter, monthly meetings are held for the reading of papers
and discussion of subjects connected with the art.
   Royal Medical Society.-This Society appears to have origi-
nated about the time that the medical school of Edinburgh was
first established in the university.  It was instituted by students
for the purpose of discussing medical subjects for mutual instruc-
tion; -and the celebrated Dr Cullen and Dr Fothergill were
among its earliest and most active members.  None of its records,
however, prior to 1737 have been preserved.  Since that period
a great proportion of the students who have graduated at the uni-
versity have been members of this society; and it includes among
these almost all the men of eminence in the profession in Britain
and many foreigners.
   In 1778 the Society was erected into a corporate body by Royal
charter.  Four presidents are elected annually by the votes of the
members,and these preside in rotation at the weekly meetings.
Ordinary members, after attending the meetings of the Society
for three years, and reading a dissertation on some medical sub-
ject, become extraordinary members, when further attendance
on the meetings of the society ceases to be imperative.  The
apartments of the society are in Surgeons' Square, and consist of
a hall, museum, library, containing a most valuable collection of
books, and rooms for the porter or sub-librarian.
   Wernerian Natural History Society.-This Society was esta-
blished in 1808 by Professor Jameson and a few gentlemen de-
voted to the study of natural history.  It holds a charter from the
magistrates of Edinburgh.  There are four classes of members;
ordinary, non-resident, honorary, and foreign, with a class of as-
sociates or corresponding members.  The communications to the
Society relate to the several departments of natural history.  Six
octavo volumes of memoirs, containing many interesting papers,
have been published by the Society.
   The Speculative Society.-This Society was instituted in 1764 by


