
     Of Weem.

   Rivers and Lakes.-Parts of this parish lie along the rivers
Tay, Lyon, Lochay, and Dochart. The two last fall into
Loch Tay at the S. W. end, as the first runs out of it at the
E. N. E. end, and is joined by the Lyon about 2 miles be-
low.  A district of this parish called the 12 merk-land of
Achmore, lies at the S. W. corner Loch Tay, and another
12 merk-land called Crannich, about the middle of it on the 
north side.  Loch Tay is 15 miles long, and about 1 broad,
yields salmon, trout, char, pike, and perch.  Salmon is caught
in drag-nets from october to August, and is sent to Perth and
Edinburgh.  There are also two lakes or lochs in the hill-
grazing of the district of Roro in Glenlyon, each of which
is more than a mile long, and about half as broad, which af-
ford a great variety of trouts, and in great abundance.  A
man with his fishing-rod, has been known to catch 200 in a 
day, from 4 ounces to a pound weight a-piece.

   Highways, Bridges.-The great military road leading from
Stirling to Inverness, passes through this parish, and is joined
by several county roads at Tay bridge, which is about half a
mile from the parish church.  The military road is kept in
repair by the Government, and the other roads by the statute-
labour.  Since these roads were made, 5 or 6  double carts
ply constantly between this country and Perth.  In summer

     R 2

<FOOTNOTE>

the church of that parish; and there are other farms belonging to it at still a
greater, both in Glenlyon and Glenlochay, some of which are above 30 miles from
the parish church; and parts of several other parishes, and even sveral parish
churches intervene.  All these lands full hold of the family of Menzies.  This
division of parishes would be extremely inconvinient, both for the pastors and
people, were it not for the harmony that has always subsisted among the for-
mer.  Every clergyman performs the several functions of his office to those who
live most contiguous to him, whether they are his own parishioners or not, ex-
cepting only parochial visitations and catechising, which every minister confines
to his own parishioners.


