
   126                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Locharkaig in this parish, and Brae Roy, in the parish of Kilmo-
nivaig; but he was obliged to resign on account of bad health.  He
had not a place of residence within the bounds of his charge.  The
preaching stations (four in number) assigned to him were so dis-
tant from one another, and some of them so difficult of access, as
to make his labours difficult for himself, and of less value to the
people.  This mission is at present vacant.  There is a popula-
tion of 220 souls in the district of Locharkaig.  The nearest part
of this district is eleven miles, and the remotest part thirty-six
miles from the parish church.
   There is an Episcopalian and a Roman Catholic chapel at Fort
William, each having an officiating ecclesiastic.  The number of
Episcopalians in the whole parish is about 400, and of Roman
Catholics about 200.  The Established Churches at Kilmalie
and at Fort William are so crowded every Sabbath day, that, from
the aspect of the congregation, a stranger would conclude there
could be no other sect in the parish, but that the whole body of
the people belonged to the Established Church.  The average
number of communicants in the Established Church is about
800.
   There is a Bible Society at Fort William, and a Religious As-
sociation at Kilmalie.  The probable average amount of the con-
tribution yearly for both may be about L. 20 or L. 24.
   Education.- There are eleven schools in the whole parish:
one, a parochial school, at Fort William,-the salary the maxi-
mum; six schools supported by different societies, of which three
are supported by the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge; four schools supported by private individuals.  The branches
generally taught in the parochial school and in that supported by
the Committee of the General Assembly at Corpach, are English
reading, writing, arithmetic, Latin, Greek, book-keeping, geogra-
phy.
   The fees of the parochial school may amount to about L. 50
per annum; but the teacher has to pay an assistant.  The Society
schoolmaster's income may be from L. 16 to L. 25 per annum, in-
cluding school-fees, which are not well paid in general.  The Gaelic
schools have conferred no small benefit on this parish.  They have
been instrumental in introducing the word of God into families
where it was not before; and the teachers in general being per-
sons of a serious cast of mind, have been a check upon the prevail-
ing sins of drunkenness, swearing, and Sabbath profanation.


