
			STEVENSTON.                              473

and public-houses, and whisky shops. A few inns are needed for
the accommodation of travellers, and for the transaction of busi-
ness; but the rest serve as so many decoys and traps to lure and
destroy the thoughtless in their neighbourhood. The sale of spirits
in grocer's shops has had a most pernicious influence, especially
on the female part of the community, who, when there is no dan-
ger of detection, are tempted to add a dram to the other commo-
dities they purchase. But the most pernicious practice is that of
several families clubbing, that they may drink together cheaply in
one of their own houses; for in this way husbands, and wives, and
children, all share in the debauch, and drunken habits are per-
petuated from generation to generation.
   We are grieved and ashamed to mention the sum annually ex-
pended in this parish for ardent spirits. We have learned from
the excise officer of the district, the quantity sold in it last year;
and, without taking into account what is bought at a distance for
the use of private families, and exclusive also of all that is expend-
ed for wine, and ale, and porter and beer; and calculating at a
rate greatly below the retail price, the quantity of ardent spirits
sold in the parish,--it amounts to the enormous sum of L. 4125!!!
This is truly lamentable.

	       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   There is a great difference, in many things, betwixt the state of
the parish now, and its state when the former Statistical Report
was written in 1791.
   Land is much higher rented than it was then, notwithstanding
the great depreciation since the end of the French war. In 1791,
the rental of the parish was L. 1170.  Now it is L. 3836. This
is not large for a whole parish; but when we reflect that it con-
tains only 3182 acres, and that about 1200 of these are sandhills,
interspersed with patches of pasture yielding on an average only
2s. 8d. per acre, it will appear, that what is cultivated of the pa-
rish is one of the richest spots in the whole country.
   Facilities of communication have greatly increased. A great
change has also taken place in trade; the cotton trade, which now
gives employment to so many families, being then only in its in-
fancy.
   On the other hand, the trade of the harbour and ship-building,
and the rope-work, and the salt-works are in a less flourishing state
than they were then; and Saltcoats, though it has increased in


