
                             TRANENT.                           289

of the Fern tribe, in perfect preservation, in the roof of the coal
seams, nearly in contact with the sandstone.
   Soil.-There is much diversity of soil in this parish, from the
sandy links, which extend along the sea coast, to the old moor of
Tranent, part of which was only-reclaimed thirty years ago. In the
immediate neighbourhood of the sea, the land is very light and
sandy, though much of it has been greatly improved of late years.
Immediately to the south of the Links, is a belt of excellent land
of loamy quality, about half a mile broad; there then intervenes,
from Bankton to Rigganhead, a morass from 15 to 20 feet deep
to the subsoil, but of late years this has been much improved.
Round the village of Tranent, the land is of rich loamy quality,
with the exception of the old moor to the east of the town, which
is clayey, but has of late been greatly improved by draining. In the
upper districts of the parish, towards Elphingstone and Falside,
the land is of good quality. There is no gravelly soil in the parish.
   Zoology.-There are no rare animals in the parish, nor is it re-
markable for breeding any species of cattle of peculiar quality, the
attention of the farmers having been chiefly given to the raising
of wheat and other grain.
   A quantity of fish is brought into the village of Cockenzie from
the Frith of Forth as well as the German Ocean; but the neigh-
bouring coast is chiefly remarkable for the fineness of the oysters,
as well as the crabs and lobsters, which are caught in great abund-
ance during the season; and it is a curious fact, that two years ago
an untouched bed of oysters was discovered near Portseton, which,
for a considerable time, yielded that shell-fish of a size and quality
rarely obtained.
   The ordinary fish caught by the villagers are, the cod, haddock,
flounder, and whiting, not unfrequently the sole and the mackerel,
and more rarely the skate, halibut, &c.
   Close to the coast, the prevailing west winds, from the sea and
the sandy soil, prevent the growth of trees; but at a short distance,
where the soil becomes deeper, all kinds of forest trees appear to
thrive remarkably well, except the fir-tribe. The soil seems most
congenial to the plane, the elm, and the oak.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The parish of Tranent was formerly of much greater extent, em-
bracing the whole of the present parish of Prestonpans, as well as
considerable parts of the parishes of Pencaitland and Gladsmuir,
and the old parish of Seton was annexed to it after the Reforma-


