
62                BANFFSHIRE.

vails in the town to a considerable extent. But while some suppose
that habits of drinking have their origin in causes which would
work alike, independently of the greater or smaller number of licensed
houses, others, admitting the evil of licensing a house, but
from necessity, in a district where there is yet no other, maintain
that a small number of taverns or alehouses in a neighbourhood
where there must be some, has a direct tendency to increase dissipation,
from the greater number of visitors who must necessarily
resort to one place, and the consequent more frequent and easy formation
of drinking parties.
  A strong belief seems to be generally entertained of the pernicious
effects of spirit-shops, as distinct from inns or taverns, in so
much as the former (more especially when furnishing; as some of
them do, a private room for tippling,) afford opportunities and temptations
to many persons who would be averse to be seen frequenting
the tavern.
   FUEL-Coals; but as there is a peat-moss at the inland extremity
of the parish, peats are, especially in its vicinity, more or less
used. The average price of coals (mostly from Sunderland) is
about Is. O1/2d. per barrel of 2 1/2 imperial bushels. Carriage in the
town about Id. per barrel more. Peats, in the town, cost from 2s.
to 3s. per load, according to the size of the cart.
             COMPARATIVE STATE.
   The chief differences that have occurred in regard to the state
and circumstances of the parish since the last Statistical Account
was drawn up, have been sufficiently indicated under the
different beads comprehended in the present report. The extension
of cultivation, and the use of an improved mode of husbandry
-the establishment of the herring fishery,-the increase
of the corn exports, and introduction of the system of exporting live
cattle,-the formation of turnpike roads, and multiplication and
improvement of the means of communication,-tbe discontinuance
of smuggling, -the expensive, though not quite efficient, additions
to the harbour,-the establishment of new congregations and places
of worship,-the institution of fibraries-the valuable bequests and
endowments made to the town,-the increased conveniences from
gas lights, baths, and the like-may just be referred to as among
the most striking alterations. In regard to moral and social changes,
him is not much to remark. Like all other places in the kingdom
the town partook of tha fictitious and temporary prosperity
arising fromthe anticipations of the national revenue made during
                              4


