
32                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

their young family to colonize some other quarter, and remain
themselves a solitary pair as before.
  Botany.-Under this head, only a few of our rarer plants shall
be mentioned. Parnassia palustris, grass of Parnassus; Trollits
Europaus, lucken gowan; Asphodelus, king's spear. These three
adorn the sloping sides of the Hill of Garvock, here and there,
in beautiful patches. The first by its neat, large, and delightful,
white ind striated cup; the second, by its beautiful large and yel-
low nodding globe; and the third, by its handsome spike of golden-
coloured flowers. The following likewise are found in a few places:
Drosera rotundifolia, sun-dew; Digitalis purpurea, foxglove;
Anemone nemorosa, wood anemone; Geranium sanquineum, bloody
crane's bill; Genista anglica, carlin's spurs; Hypericum pulchrum,
St John's wort; Antirrhinum repens, creeping, toad-flax ; Iris pseu-
dacorus, yellow flag; Geum rivale, herb Bennet; Trifolium pra-
tense and repens, red and white trefoil. This is supposed to im-
part that peculiar richness of flavour, for which Garvock butter is
noted, although Garvock cheese has no favourable character.*  All
that remains of its natural wood, now to be found growing, in the pa-
rish, consists in a few stunted hazels, sloes, and willows in two or
three places. The small extent of wood hitherto planted in the pa-
risb, consists principally of larch, spruce, and Scots firs, although
the few trees of hard-wood, as ash, beech, and plane, which have
been occasionally planted in the lower grounds, seem to thrive pret-
ty well. Of the firs, the spruce seems to thrive best; indeed, the
Scots fir, and particularly the larch, very often fail here, owing,
perhaps, to one or more of three causes,-want of shelter, too much
moisture, or, in shallow ground, the roots being cankered by salt
of iron. Slight draining may cure the second, and trenching or mak-
ing pretty large pits, and exposing the soil for six or twelve months
before planting, may cure the last.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	Uniform tradition says, that this parish was a forest or hunting-
park, and part of the wide extended property of Earl Marischal,
of whom it is said, that he could travel from Berwick to John-
o'Groat's, breakfast, and dine every day, and sup and sleep every

<FOOTNOTE>Hence came the following anecdote:-About fifty years ago, the thrifty good-
wife of a small tenant in this parish, whose house happened to be built on the very
boundary line between this parish and that of Laurencekirk, used to carry her but-
ter and cheese to market, but sold the former for Garvock butter, and the latter for
Laurencekirk cheese; and when challenged for want of veracity, declared she did so
with a safe conscience, for her butter was always made in the Garvock end, but the
cheese always in the Laurencekirk end of the house.


