
260                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

now almost obliterated, are covered with spongy sod, or a rich
sward of grass.  This spacious road, still kept open, is but little
frequented except for driving cattle and sheep into England.
     This district, so long converted by the Licentious borderers into
the theatre of incessant feuds, reciprocal depredations, and vio-
lent sanguinary conflicts, was once numerously interspersed with
castellated edifices, or baronial forts.  Of these the most distin-
guished were Dolphiston, Mossburnford, and the Crag Tower.
The first is plausibly conjectured to have been built by one Dol-
phus, and to have received from him its name.  It was held, for
a considerable period, by the family of Anslie, who greatly singa-
lized themselves in the border warfare.  On the principal gateway
were inscribed the words Radolph de Anslie.  The walls, of which
little more than the foundation remains, were from 8 to 10 feet
in thickness, and bad several vaulted apertures in the middle of
them, originally intended either for concealment or repose; but
so large as to admit of their being ultimately converted by farmers
into receptacles for ladders, and other agricultural implements.
They were of such massive and durable construction, indeed, as
rendered their demolition a matter of very difficult accomplish-
ment.*  A little to the south, there is a plot of grass twenty-two
yards square, long unbroken by the plough or spade, which is al-
leged to have formerly been furnished with a watch-tower.  The
next mentioned structure, though far inferior in strength, was
nevertheless longer preserved entire; for its being inhabited con-
sists with the recollection of persons now alive.  The site of the
third was upon the eastern bank of the Oxnam, below the village,
and was strongly fortified, both by nature, and by the skilful con-
trivances of art.  It was built on a bold rocky eminence, with pro-
jecting battlements, and surrounded on three sides by water.  In
the interior of it, there was a deeply-sunk pit, which is said to have
communicated with the passing stream, from which its inmates
and defenders, when closely besieged, could readily supply them-
selves.  It had, besides, a strong wall of defence on the accessible

     * A tradition is still current, that a fairy or brownie assisted the people there in
thrashing their corn in olden times, and that in token of their gratitude for his ser-
vices, an article of dress was placed for his acceptance in the scene of his nocturnal
labours; but that he, hurt and offended at the very offer of remuneration of any
sort, quitted the premises for ever, and on doing so, is said to have uttered his re-
gret in these lines.                  Another edition.
Sin ye've gien me-a harden ramp,+     Brownie's gotten a cloak and hood,
Nae mair o' your corn I wull tramp.   But brownie 'll do nae mair good.
                         + A course linen shirt.


