
474 			    FORFARSHIRE.

	The southern or Carbtddo division of the parish labours under
great disadvantages in respect of church accomodation,-the
average distances of that part of the parish being eight miles from
the parish church. There is no place of worship in that locality,
nor has there been for the very many years. It is hoped that this
evil may soon be so far remedied, by the erection of a school of such
a form as to be easily convertible into a preaching station. In the
meantime, with the view of doing something for the supply of Di-
vine ordinances to this section of the parish, it is the practise, ex-
cept during the winter months, to preach there in a small school-
house, at an interval of two or three weeks, besided the usual mi-
nisterial visitations among the different families. It may be stated,
that, though the families in this section of the parish be far from
their parish church, they are not farther, in any case, that three
miles from some of the contigous parish churches.
	With the exception of twelve persons, the whole population of
the parish belongs to the Established Church; and Divine service
is generally well attended. The average number of communicants
for some years past has been about 235. *
        Education.-Besides the parish school, there is a school at Car-
buddo, which is supported by subscription. The teacher's de
pendence is almost whnlly on the school fees. For the last four years
the average attendance at both these schools has been about 87;
showing that very nearly a sixth of the whole population are at;
school. The salary of the parochial teacher is the minimum.
The amount of school fees is probably from L.16 to L.20 a year.
The master has the legal accomodations. The school fees per
quarter are, for reading, 2s.; for reading and writing, 2s. 6d.; for
reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3s.; for practical mathematics,
4s. It is believed that all persons in the parish above six years of
age are able to read.
        Library.-There is a parish library consisting of religious books,
and the parishioners generally avail themselves of the privilege of
it.
        Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
for some time back has not been great. The allowance varies
from 3s. to 15s. per month, in some cases more, according as the
need may be. Besides those who get regular supply, others get
occasional help. On the occasion of dispensing the Lord's Sup-
per, a portion of the collections made is applied for the relief of

<FOOTNOTE>This portion strangers form the neighbouring parishes of Kirkden and Rescobie.


