
                           CULTS.                          571

some of the under-ground quarries extend 120 yards inwards from
the face of the rock.
  The quantity of lime sold annually exceeds 25,000 bolls, three of
which bolls are equivalent to 16 cwt.  About one-third of this
quantity is shipped at Newburgh for Dundee and Perth, whence
it is conveyed to Dunkeld, Crieff, Methven, Cupar Angus, and
many other places in Forfarshire and Perthshire.  The lime is of
excellent quality, averaging upwards of ninety per cent. and some
of it being entirely pure.  The demand for it is great, and con-
stantly increasing, insomuch that a far greater quantity might be
disposed of annually, were it not for the difficulty that has been
recently felt in procuring, at a reasonable distance, an adequate
supply of coals for burning it.  The rent paid annually by the
tacksman is regulated by the extent of rock quarried, and ave-
rages L. 365.
  The price of the lime when sold at the hill is 2s. 8d. per boll.
The expense of tirring (or mining) and burning the lime, averages
10d. per boll; the expense of shipping a one horse cart-load (of
three bolls) at Newburgh, including carriage, tolls, and sbore-
dues, is 4s, or 1s. 4d. per boll; the number of workmen (mostly
belonging to the parish) engaged at the quarries is 43; and their
wages per week are from 9s. to 10s.
  Besides these workmen, the lime-quarries of Cults afford em-
ploymeipt to a number of carters in conveying coals to the kilns,
and lime to the port of Newburgh.  In the summer season, there
are upwards of a hundred carters from the parishes of Cults, Ce-
res, Collessie, Largo, Kennoway, Cupar, Kettle, and Cameron,
regularly engaged in this occupation.  The greater proportion of
these are tenants of small farms, which, but for the carting of coal
and lime, would not afford sufficient work for their horses.  The
coals for burning the lime are brought principally from Teasses, in
the parish of Ceres, a small quantity from Burnturk, in Kettle,
and from Kilmuz, in Leven parish.
  Coal Mines.-There were coal mines wrought, about fifty years
ago, on the southern declivity of the Cults hill.  These, however,
have ever since been neglected, it being doubtful whether they
could be wrought to any advantage.  There are several beds
of coal reposing on the lime strata.  One of these is 12 inches
in thickness, and the coal is obtained from it in the process of tir
ring for the limestone.  I have just learned, while engaged with
this Statistical Account, that a bed of parrot coal has been din
                                 4


