
     of Pennycuick

keen and piercing, with few of those thick fogs from the E.
that are to troublesome and unwholesome on the coast.  Of
late, however, the winters have been uncommonly mild, but
the summers have been cold, short, and unprolific.  There
is not much rain through the year, but when it does fall it
is generally in heavy showers.  At 12 noon, 5th September
1788, Farenheit's thermometer rose to 73 degree in the shade,
and 80 degree in the fun at New Hall.  In the higher parts of the
parish the crops are precarious, and the grass luxuriant, so
that it is chiefly adapted for pasture.  There are plenty of
peat and coal, throughout the whole parish, for fuel.  Above
Monksburn, where there is a particular kind of freestone re-
sembling petuntle, there is abundance of lime, granite, iron,
and freestone intermixed with strata of clay, clay-marl, gra-

<FOOTNOTE>

'honourable friend Sir James Clerk of Pennycuick, where Ram-
'say frequently resided, and who, I know, is possessed of several
'original poems composed by him, can give the same testimo-
'ny.'  The hollow, beyond a place called Mary's Bower, where
the Esk forms a line or fall, is named the How Burn; and, with
its bathing pool and scenery, coincides exactly with the descrip-
tion of Habbie's How; in all probability a cottager of that
name had his hut there at that time.  The grounds beyond to
the westward called Carlops, a contraction for Carline's Loups,
now a part of the same estate, were supposed once to have been
the residence of a Carline or witch, who lived in a dell at the
foot of the Carlops Hill, where a village is now begun, near a
pass between two conic rocks: From the opposite, points of which
she was often observed at nights, by the frightened and disorder-
ed eye of superstition and ignorance, leaping and frisking across
the entrance.  This tradition with the dell or glen, to the N.
of the supposed witch's hut, coincides with, and probably gave
rise to, another part of the story.  From these circumstances,
and the manners, employments, and dress, of the old inhabi-
tants, the title of the former proprietor, the shelter given to the
Covenanters before the Restoration, the number of glens,
streams, rocks, and cascades, together with the verdure and
beauty of the neighbouring hills, the reader may easily trace,
with few alterations, almost all the incidents and pastoral sce-
nery of that beautiful poem.


