
352                         PERTHSHIRE.

from tributary streams, makes its way through a most romantic
glen between Brackland and Auchinlaich.  This spot is much re-
sorted to, from the notice taken of it by tourists; and for the ac-
commodation of the public, a secure bridge has been thrown across
the chasm.  Upon a small scale, nothing can exceed the wild
grandeur of the scene, and nobody can pass the bridge of Brack-
land without some feeling of apprehension.  This and the pass
of Leney are the only approximation to waterfalls in the parish.
At this bridge, the river takes the name of Keltie, and after skirt-
ing the Lawn of Cambusmore, falls into the Teath in front of that
mansion, about a mile and a half below Callander.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Lime abounds in this parish, a
quarry of which is regularly wrought, and supplies not only the
farmers in the neighbourhood, but many farmers in the stewartry
of Monteath, who prefer this lime to that which is to be had at the
shore of Stirling.  The limestone is of a very beautiful colour and
superior quality.  The ground of it is a deep blue, intersected with
streaks of pure white.  The farmers have learned the advantage of
using it, by the superior crops produced by this stimulus when ju-
diciously applied to the land.  Some of them make a compost of
lime, earth, and manure, which produces excellent crops.  The
direction of the strata is commonly from north-east to south-west.
There are also slate-quarries wrought in the parish; one on the
farm of Aney, the property of Mr Stirling of Keir; another at the
base of Benledi, the property of Mr Urquhart of Kerinoch; and
a few years ago, a slate quarry was wrought on the farm of Lanrick,
the property of General Sir George Murray.  The slate, parti-
cularly when the quarry has been wrought for some time, is of a
blue colour and very durable.  The plum-puddingstone abounds
in this neighbourhood, and commonly runs parallel with the lime-
stone and slate, but at some distance from both.  It is the chief
material used for building.  There is also a chain of gray free-
stone, which lies across the parish, in the same direction of south-
west and north-east, which is very hard and durable, and answers
well for building and covering, drains.  The soil is of a light
gravelly nature, but has been greatly improved of late by draining.
The example held out by the proprietors in this respect has been
successfully followed by  their tenantry, and the assistance given
by opening drains, &c. is a great encouragement to an industrious
tenant to go on improving his farm.
   Zoology.-We have here the Highland pony and the draught


