
2                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

more elevated positions, commanding a magnificent view of the
city of Edinburgh, the Pentland, Braid, and Blackford hills, Ar-
tbur's Seat, the Frith of Forth, the coasts of Fife and East Lo-
thian, and, indeed, of the whole surrounding district, which is in
many respects the most interesting in Scotland.  It is the "Heart
of Mid-Lotbian," and there is not in Britain a more commanding
view of rich and varied scenery, including wood, water, a fine city,
and a richly cultivated country, than may be had from Craigmil-
lar Castle, the high grounds above Mortonball, the ridge of Gilmer-
ton, or the neighbourhood of Liberton church.  The land of the
parish, too, being in the highest state of cultivation, and almost all
thoroughly drained, the climate is very dry and salubrious.  The
people are, in general, healthy, and many live to an old age.  Epi.
demical diseases seldom exist; although in 1832, cholera was very
fatal in Gilmerton and some of the neighbouring villages, no per-
son being seized who was engage in agriculture.  The tempera-
ture of the parish varies in the different districts, the lower district
towards the sea coast being much warmer, and the operations of
husbandry being, in general, nearly a fortnight earlier at Niddry
and Brunstane than at Straiton and Morton.  The parish is inter-
sected by two rivulets, by which eight water mills are driven.
Geology.*-The parish of Liberton forms part of the great car-
boniferous deposit of Mid-Lothian.  On the north and north-west
side, the felspar and clinkstone of Braid and Blackford hills have
elevated the sandstone deposits to a considerable height. These
consist of the various layers of the carboniferous sandstones, which
constitute the greater part of the surface of the valley of Mid-Lo-
tbian.  On the northern declivity of the road leading from Liber-
ton to Edinburgh, a coarse conglomerate makes its appearance,
being here elevated to the surface, and which is probably one of
the lowermost beds of the sandstone deposit.
   A line commencing from Burdiebouse, and extending in a
slightly curved direction to Joppa, forms the northern boundary of
the coal-field of Mid-Lothian.  Along this line there is an exten-
sive slip and an abrupt elevation of the lowermost members of the
cool basin.  Burdiehouse quarry consists of a bed of limestone
27 feet thick, with several feet of bituminous shale, superimposed.
It crops out abruptly to the surface in a westerly direction, and
dips at an angle of 25 to the eastward.  Two faults interrupt the
continuity of this limestone bed, and are distinguishable from the

<FOOTNOTE>The remarks under this head were written by William Rhynd, Esq.,


