
                           RESCOBIE.                           599

This fault, which is about a foot wide at the surface, widens as it
descends to nine feet, below which it has not been worked. The
materials with which the rent has been filled are composed of the
ruins of the pavement beds.
        "Boulders and Erratics.-Over the surface of the bills of Pits-
candly and Turin, especially on the northern slope, at consider-
able heights, are scattered many blocks, both rounded and angu-
lar, of rocks which must have been transported from great dis-
tances. They are mingled confusedly with fragments which have
been derived from the contiguous hill, Some of the erraties are
of hornblende-slate; others of mica-slate. One of these last,
measuring three feet in its longest diameter, occurs within fifty
feet of the summit of Turin Hill; but the example most worthy
of notice is to be seen about fifty feet below the top of the hill
of Pitscandly, about 500 yards north-west of the farm of Baldar-
die. The block consists of mica-slate, of a hard and durable
kind, in which the quartz predominates, and in which the laminae
are much bent and zig-zaged. This kind of rock is seen in situ
on the northern extremity of the Creigh Hill, north of the lake
of Lintrathen; and this is one of the nearest points in the Gram-
pians, from which the block in question could have been trans-
ported. The fragment is angular, and measures 13 feet in length
by 7 in breadth, and stands 7 feet high above ground: close to
it, are four other angular pieces of the same kind of rock, from
three to six feet in diameter. Few geologists, of the present days,
will be disposed to deny, that this huge frigment must have been
carried into its present position by the agency of ice; although a
great difference of opinion may exist, respecting the manner in
which it and its companions were conveyed from the Grampians,
across the intervening hollow of Strathmore, and lodged in what
may be considered as the flanks of the Sidlaw hills.
        "Organic Remains.-The only ones hitherto met with, occur in
the pavement of Quarry Park, and  appear to be vegetable impres-
sions. The same have been met with in Fife, and have been
called fucoidal. One of them consists of an assemblage of small
hexagonal plates, first noticed by the Rev. Dr Flemming, in a si-
milar stone, and of the same age, near Flisk, in Fife."
	Thus far the learned professor. The writer hereof may only
adds, that in the upper Wemyss quarry, or quarry north of Wemyss
farm-huose, a fossil tree is state to have been found imbeded
in a stratum of calmstone; and that the trunk, the branches, and


