
312                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

was not completed till 1824. There were employed daily, during
that time, from 200 to 400 men, chiefly Irish, many of whom were
accommodated in temporary booths erected at the place. James
Jardine, Esq. Civil-Engineer, Edinburgh, planned and superin-
tended the execution of the work, and by his skill and ingenuity,
and indefatigable perseverance, surmounted the many discourag-
ing difficulties, which, at almost every stage of the work, present-
ed themselves, and retarded very materially its progress.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks in the lower parts of the
parish belong to the coal formation. Coal has been wrought in
the parish, but not for several years. The rocks in the upper
part of the parish, viz. those in the Pentland hills, are of the floetz
and trap series; in the slate series we find clay-slate and grey-
wacke; in the trap series clinkstone, clinkstone porphyry, green-
stone, compact felspar, claystone, claystone, tuff, and porphyry.
The rocks on each side of the valley through which Glencross
water flows are chiefly porphyry. This porphyritic rock is
frequently also amygdaloidal, having its cavities filled with
mineral substances of different kinds, such as calcareous spar,
heavy spar, and agate. Beautiful sections of this rock are to
be seen on each side of the water, a little above Glencross
Bridge. Professor Jameson, who annually, with his class, visits
this place, considers these rocks to be of igneous origin. He re-
marks also that the porphyritic rocks there, have a striking resem-
blance to the porphyritic rocks in the Andes, as described by
Humboldt. He supposes that, at an early period, in consequence
of some great convulsion of nature, a rent had taken place in the
rocks, which then united the glen, and, tearing them asunder,
emptied a lake which had once existed above, and formed the
narrow and romantic defile through which the water now flows.
   The "siller mine" is a very beautiful rock of porphyry, in
which there are several veins of heavy spar, and which, as it is
often associated with metallic ore, was at one time wrought in ex-
pectation of finding copper or silver.
   Turnhouse hill, on the west side of Glencross water, rests on
conglomerate, as was very distinctly shown before the formation
of the Compensation reservoir, which now washes its base. Over
this lies greenstone, next amygdaloid, then trap-tuff, and last of
all, porphyry, which forms the upper part of the hill. On the
north-east declivity of Turnhouse hill, claystone is found imbed-
ded in compact felspar, to which it is intimately related. It
gradually passes into porphyry, which rests immediately upon it.


