
56                         ORKNEY.

shape, about one foot across. It was sprinkled with a peculiar
mossy-looking substance, of a brown colour, and white ashes,
which seemed, from the smell when burnt, to be animal matter.
The surface of the urn is dark, not unlike burnt cork, and seems
to be rude earthen-ware, into the composition of which, bits of
stone enter liberally. . It contained nothing that we could per-
ceive, and soon fell to pieces; but I put them together with Ro-
man cement; and it is now in the Society's museum, with part of
the bones.
   The next, in size, of the group of tumuli, was 34 yards in circum-
ference, about 6 feet high, and contained six separate graves.
The two nearest the centre seemed the principal ones. A large
flag rested against the covers of these on the east side, jutting up
about a foot above them. The space under this flag was quite
empty. On removing it and the two horizontal covers on which
it rested, the two principal graves were exposed to view. The
first was formed of a double row of upright flags, on all sides ex-
cept the south, next to the second, where there was only a single
row, and small pieces substituted at the corners,+ the space inside
was filled for 9 inches with clay, and the corners of this and the
second were also cemented with it. Between the cover and clay
flooring, was a vacant space, about a foot deep, into which some
fine sand had penetrated or fallen from the cover in wasting, and
sprinkled the floor. On removing this,-we found a small stone,
which covered a cavity in the clay, I foot in diameter, and 9 inches
deep, containing the bones burnt and broken, as in the first tumu-
lus, and some little pieces of charcoal. It is worthy of remark,
that in a tumultis lately opened in Circassia, Mr Spencer disco-
vered a few fraguaents of unglazed terra cotta vases, containing
charcoal also.  The second grave was nearly one foot south of the former, and,
consisted of four flags, set 'up on a floor of flag, with a heap of

<FOOTNOTE>The cover was 5 feet 7 in length, 3 feet 2 broad, and 3 1/2 inches thick. The bottom
of the grave was on the level of the surface of the earth, and it measured 3 feet
long, 2 feet broad, and 1 foot, 10 deep. The part of the urn that bore to be lifted up
measured 1 foot in diameter at its month, 5 inches ilnside and outside of bottom, and
9 inches high; the bottom 1 inch thick, and the sides barely 3/4.
   It measured 5 feet long, 4 feet 2 inches broad, and 3 inches thick.
higher first grave was 1 foot, 8 inches square inside, the outside flags were 6 inches
higher than the inside ones and those on the west and east sides very twick. Out-
side thet were supported by some lumpy stones and the clay.
  Spencer's Travels in Circassia, Vol. ii p. 299, third edition.
  This was 1 foot 10 inches, by 1 foot 3 inches across the middle, but far from
square, and 2 feet deep.


