
234                       ARGYLESHIRE.

was written, is there stated to have been 25,000, and I believe that
the number has not been much altered since; but undoubtedly the
quality must be superior to what it was then, as improvements have
been made in the mode of managing sheep farms.  This was, at
one time, a country abounding in goats, but they are now become
scarce, for as these creatures are great enemies to growing wood,
the proprietors, in order to save their plantations, found necessary
to proscribe them; there are, however, a few still to be found in
Kingerloch.
   Lismore is famous for its grey and dappled horses, and the in-
habitants are famed for their skill as jockeys, in which occupation
they are often employed.  They traffic much also in pigs, eggs,
and poultry, of which they export great quantities yearly.  The
fishes which most abound here, and are most important in an eco-
nomical point of view, are cod, ling, haddock, whiting, rock cod,
lythe, mackerel, and flounder, with several other kinds of grey fish.
Salmon and herring are caught in considerable quantities in their
season.  The salmon fishers seldom dispose of much of their fish
here, as they generally send it to the south country market, and
consequently, no accurate quotation of prices can here be given.
They are caught with stake-nets in Lochcherey in Kingerloch, and
in several places along the coast of Appin, and in Lochcreran.
There are a few beds of oysters in Lochcreran, and the shores all
around produce abundance of other shell-fish of every description,
which is used unsparingly as food by the common people, parti-
cularly during the summer season.
   Botany.-The parish of Lismore and Appin affords the bo-
tanist an ample field for profitable research.  This is proved by
the many botanical discoveries made by the late indefatigable bo-
tanist, Captain Dugald Carmichael of the 72d Regiment of foot,
who within the last twenty years, discovered on the shores of Lis-
more and Appin many land and sea plants which were formerly
unknown in the botanical world.  The following list of those
plants was obligingly supplied by Lieutenant-Colonel Fleming of
Kinlochlaich in Appin, who is himself a botanist, and was former-
ly in the enjoyment of Captain Carmichael's friendship; and for
further acquaintance with the botany of this parish, the reader is
referred to Sir W. Jackson Hooker's " British Flora."

<TABLE>
     Musci                Grimmia inaritima           Fontinalis antipyretica
Gymnostomum fasciculare   Entosthodon Templetoni      Dicranum flavescens
----------- pyriforme     Weissia curvirostra         -------- polycorpum


