
698                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the superintendence of the Trustees' Academy, and continued
there till his death in 1797. The next master was Mr John
Graham, who was selected, from the merit of his paintings, out
of nine or ten other competitors, to fill this office. At this
time, the trustees procured for the academy a set of casts from
antique statues; and Mr Graham proved an intelligent and en-
thusiastic instructor. Among his pupils were Sir David Wilkie,
Sir William Allan, Patrick Gibson, David Thomson, Alexander
Frazer, William Sheriff; William Lizars and John Burnett, en-
gravers; and William Scoular, sculptor.
   As a portrait painter, the late Sir Henry Raeburn was almost
unrivalled, and most successful in his art. In boldness and breadth
of coloring, in ease and graceful attitude, and in fidelity to
nature, he much resembled Sir Joshua Reynolds. The portraits
of the late President of the Scottish Academy, Mr George Wat-
son, were also of a superior order. The landscapes of the Rev. Mr
Thomson of Duddingston have all the charms of the best old mas-
ters; and those of the late M. A. Nasmyth, in a different style,
possess much excellence.
   On the death of Mr Graham, Mr Andrew Wilson was appoint-
ed master of the academy; to him succeeded Sir William Allan;
and on his retirement Mr J. Duncan filled the situation till his
untimely death in 1845.
   Towards the end of last century various attempts were made to
form an association of artists in Edinburgh, but they all failed. In
1808, a few of the most talented artists clubbed their paintings
together, and got up an exhibition. This so far succeeded, and
was repeated for several years. On several occasions, exhibitions
were got up by individual artists, and all these tended to foster
in the public a growing taste for art. At length in 1819 a num-
ber of noblemen and gentlemen combined to form an Institution
for the Encouragement of the Fine Arts in Scotland. The first
exhibition opened in March of that year, with a collection of an-
cient pictures, at the rooms of the academy, which they rented
from the trustees of the Royal Institution on the Mound. In
1827, this institution was incorporated by royal charter, and for
several years it continued annually to exhibit the works of living
artists, and to forward by every means the progress of native talent.
In consequence, however, of a feeling among the artists themselves,
that they were too much excluded from the practical management of
the affairs the institution, a secession took place; Hand a new Asso-
                                  4

