
100 				ABERDEENSHIRE.

Life Assurance Company," which has experienced a considerable
degree of success during the time it has existed, and the share on
which L. 1 was paid, now sells for L. 1, 8s. 6d.
	Last spring two Marine Insurance Companies were started on
an extended scale, and as far as can be judged, in so short a time,
both seem likely to succeed.
	There are also two Mutual Insurance Societies which were form-
ed among the operatives a few years ago, but their success has been
very limited.
	Besides these, there are agencies in Aberdeen for no fewer than
39 Scotch and English Insurance Companies, of which the oldest
is that of the Sun Fire Office, which was established here nearly
eighty years ago.
	Newspapers.--The Aberdeen Journal is one of the oldest, if
not the very oldest, of the papers in the north of Scotland. It
was commenced in 1748, and was at first published on Tuesday,
on a very small sheet. Some time after, the day of publication
was altered to Monday, and subsequently to Wednesday, on which
day it still continues to be published. It has been repeatedly en-
larged in size, and is now printed on a larger sheet, it is believed,
than any other Scottish paper. In the number of its advertisements
and the extent of its circulation, it takes the lead of all the Scotch
papers, and it was the first paper that was printed by steam north
of the Forth. Its weekly circulation is from 2200 to 2400.  The
principles advocated in the Aberdeen Journal are those of very
moderate and timid Conservatism, and it adopts the views of what
is termed the moderate party in Church politics.
	The Aberdeen Herald was begun in 1832, having succeeded
the Aberdeen Chronicle, which had been carried on for about
twenty years previously. The present circulation of the Herald
is about 1300 weekly. The politics of this paper are what is now
called Liberal,--perhaps rather Radical; and the principles which
it advocates are partly those of the Voluntaries, and partly infidel
in their character. It is published on Saturday, and has begun
to be printed by a machine within the last twelve months.
	The Aberdeen Constitutional was commenced in 1837, taking
the place of the Aberdeen Observer, which had struggled through.
an existence of about twelve years.
	The object of the original projectors of the Constitutional was
to promote a better tone of thinking and feeling among the people,
by establishing a paper whose characteristic should rather be its
Christian principle, than its political partisanship. In this attempt,


