
                        DYSART. 				133

Kirkaldy, for the famous Assembly held in Glasgow in 1638. He
was in Edinburgh Castle in 1650, when that fortress surrendered
to Cromwell, and wa-s one of the six ministers who protested against
the surrender. He was, for some time after, a prisoner in England,
and died in February 1660.
  Robert Beatson was born at Dysart in 1742. He was educated
with a view to the military profession. He obtained an ensigncy
in 1756. He was at the taking of Martinique and Guadaloupe, and
also served in the expedition to the coast of France, and during the
American war. He is the author of many publications, among
which are the following:-Political Index to the History of Great
Britain and Ireland; Naval and Military Memoirs; Essay on the
Comparative Advantages of Vertical and Horizontal Windmills;
Chronological Register of both Houses of Parliament. The Uni-
versity of Aberdeen conferred upon him the degree. of LL.D. He
died at Edinburgh in 1818.
  Land-owners-The principal land-owners in the parish are, the
Earl of Rosslyn; the Earl of Rothes; Sir John Oswald of Dun
nikier; and John Fergus, Esq. of Strathore.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers go so far back as
1619. They consist of about twenty volumes, and are in good
order except one volume, which, being reckoned of importance, was,
at the request of the session, lately transcribed by the session-clerk.
  Antiques.-among the antiques connected with Dysart, may
be noticed the Red Rocks. These are nearly a mile eastward from
the town. They bear the memorials of some dreadful convulsion,
and are associated with the superstitions of former times. Tradi-
tion still points them out as the place where witches were burnt;
and in different records, there are allusions to circumstances which
render it more than probable that tradition is correct. The scenery
all around is truly picturesque.
  About half a mile to the westward of Dysart, is the Castle of Ra-
venscraig. It stands on a steep crag fronting the sea. It, with
the adjoining lands, was given by James III. to William Sinclair,
Earl of Orkney, when he resigned the title of Orkney; and ever
since, has been the property of the family of Sinclair. Although in
a ruinous state now, it was inhabited in Oliver Cromwells time;
indeed, it was the place where Lord Sinclair used to hold his court
meetings; and the copy of a sumnions which his Lordship sent to
the bailies of Dysart to appear before him is still preserved.
  Near the Castle of Ravenscraig, three old trees stood together,


