
260                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

Aberdeen, as managers of Guild Brethren's Hospital there,--the
feu-duty amounting to 188 bolls of oatmeal annually. It is now,
after many changes, in the hands of eleven individuals. The ren-
tals are, Jellybrands, Chapelton, and Newtonhill, L.814; Elsick
and Cairnhill, L.526; Newhall, L.,359; Cammackmore, L.264;
Monduff, L.185; Quoschies, L.124; Cairngressie, L.122; Ber-
ryhill, L.98; Wedderhill, L.78; Beltcraigs, L.67. The exist-
ing rental of land in the parish may be considered as amounting
to L.16,800; and that of property in the New town of Stone-
haven, as assessed under the act for making provision for the poor,
including Bridge-end of Arduthie, a separate property, but all built
upon, to L.3191.
    Valued rent, L.6534, 4s. 2d. Scotch.
	Fisheries.--There are three fishing-stations, one at Cowie,
where there are 8 boats; one at Shanathro, 4; and one at Sket-
raw, 7; each having a crew consisting of five men. Fishing of cod
and ling is now not so much pursued as formerly. Haddocks are
the principal object. After supplying the neighbourhood with
what is required in a fresh state, part during the summer season is
dried on the beach, and called speldings. A part is smoked with
peat, in the manner well known by the name of Findon. A much
greater part, for some past years, has been smoked in houses pre-
pared for the purpose, by wood. A very large quantity of these,
from all the stations, is carried by cadgers to Forfar and Perth-
shires, and by coaches and sea-carriage to Edinburgh and Glas-
gow; a great deal also by steam-vessels from Aberdeen to Lon-
don. Cod and ling are dried on the beach as well as haddocks,
and a considerable quantity salted and forwarded in casks to diffe-
rent markets. All kinds of fish commonly found on this coast form
part of the produce of the fishery with those enumerated. The
drying. smoking, and pickling processes are now generally in the
hands of contractors, who receive the fish, at stipulated prices,
from the fishermen immediately after their arrival from sea.
   Almost all the persons employed in fishing are, during the her-
ring season, occupied in that department. Those in this parish
have been accustomed to fish at Peterhead and Fraserburgh; of
late years, however, several of them at Stonehaven, where they
have been successful; and most likely few or none will, in fu-
ture seasons, proceed to distant places. The number of boats
thus employed, for some time past, has amounted to 15, each hav-
ing five. Their tonnage is from 20 to 30 tons.


