
54                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

undertaking.  Drainage, which ought to be one of the first im-
provements in agriculture, is now the crowning work in that de-
partment in this district of the country; and whilst it does honour
to the proprietors and possessors of the soil, it is, as has been ob-
served, diffusing an increase of health and comfort among the in-
habitants.
   The working classes in this parish are sober and industrious, and
generally well behaved; they are lodged in comfortable houses, and
their gains are equal to the maintenance of themselves and the edu-
cation of their children. They are generally well qualified to per-
form the kind of work the undertake, and the male part display con-
siderable knowledge and skill in rural affairs. To these, topics,
however, their knowledge is in a great measure confined.  On the
subjects of sacred history and religion their knowledge is very li-
mited, particularly those of them who are somewhat advanced in
years, and this ignorance arises from the want of religious instruc-
tion in youth.  But the younger part of this class of the popula-
tion is better educated and more intelligent than the aged, and the
rising generation promises progressive improvement.  This change
is to be ascribed to a better educated and more efficient class of
parochial teachers.   It has been often found that a marked diffe-
rence exists between the inhabitants of those parishes where the
clergymen visit and catechise their parishioners annually, and where
the outh have the benefit of Sunday schools, and the people of
other parishes, where these advantages are not enjoyed. An in-
telligent, moral, and religious population, is an object so pleasing
to a rightly constituted mind, and so advantageous to the interests
of all, that it may well excite the ministers of the Gospel and in-
structors of youth, to increased diligence in their vocations, as
they must be aware that their perseverance will be followed with
the happiest results.
  May 1835.


