
     of Clunie.

   Remarkable Seasons and Occurrences.-In the dry season of
1723, the crop here, though very rich, owing probably to
the fertilizing dews that fell in the night time, was so short,
that a boll of corn, with all its straw, could easily be con-
tained within the four corners of an ordinary sheet or can-
vass; there was, however, no scarcity of fodder, the sub-
sequent winter being so exceedingly mild, that the cattle
were never housed from the one end of it to the other.-In
June 1724, a tremenduous water-spout broke upon the high-
er parts of this parish, and engulphed the declivities, in
such a manner, that the marks of it are in many places
still visible.-The long and severe frost of 1740 was fol-

<FOOTNOTE>

upon 40 days warning.  The reason for this is very obvious: The two
brothers had considered that if the alteration in religion should take ef-
fect, the church would be plundered of its patrimony; and it would be
as well that Sir Robert should get a part of that which belonged to the
fee of Dunkeld, as another; and, if the old establishment should again
prevail, the Bishop would have been restored to his own.  Upon the
rights I have mentioned.  Sir Robert Crichton procured afterwards a char-
ter of confirmation and novo tamus from King James VI. of the whole
barony of Clunie, loch, island, etc. with the advocation, donation, and
right of patronage of the parish and parish-kirk of Clunie, and chapel of
St Catharine, within the loch And the same were enjoyed by him, and
his son and successor, etc.  There is nothing in this that contradicts the
opinion which my Lord Buchan has formed, that the mirabilis Crichton
was a son of Sir Robert Crichton of Elliock, as Sir Robert might be at
one time designed of Elliock, and at another of Clunie."
From Mylne's manuscript history of the Bishops of Dunkeld, we find
that George Crichton filled that fee from the year 1522 to 1559.  His dis-
position of the lands of Clunie to his brother, must have happened some
time m the intermediate space.  On the rights disponed to him by the Bi-
shop.  Sir Robert would naturally take possession not only of the property,
but probably of the palace of Clunie too, especially as it must have been
then in high accommodation, having been lately built and inhabited by
Bishop Brown, and esteemed at that time one of the principal houses of
this country.  The supposition, therefore, that his son, the admirable
Crichton, who died a young man, in the year 1581, was born on the
island of Clunie, seems to possess the highest degree of probability.


