
                  COUNTY OF RENFREW.                            535

ter of a river or running stream, at Port-Glasgow and Greenock.
This bank, divided into two by a " through-let," is supposed still
to be increasing, and so anxious are the merchants and magistrates
of Greenock on this point, on account of the commerce of the
Clyde, that they have instituted means for ascertaining whether
or not this detrital bank be on the increase, and if so, we may soon,
expect to hear farther accounts of " wars with the sea."  Probably,
both theories are partly correct. Mr Montgomery, following in the
walk of many eminent geologists, endeavours to trace out marks of
the "former higher level of the sea." As to time, no person can
say how long it may have been since this subsidence took place;
the data of geology are only relative. Mr Stevenson, as a civil-en-
gineer, had occasion to observe causes and their present effects, and
had to employ means for meeting or remedying them-so both parties
are partly in the right. But of this more in another place. Perhaps
there is no Frith in the world so completely land-locked, and so fully
sheltered from the full swell of the ocean tide, as the Frith of Clyde.
The consequence is, that the tides are so languid, as to rise only
from nine to eleven feet perpendicular, while the corresponding
tides on the eastern coast of Great Britain, rise from fourteen to
sixteen feet. The channel of the fritb, with its extensive and wide
spread arms, its angular evolutions, and its great natural break-
waters Arran, Bute, and the Cumbrae isles, is quite the reverse
of funnel-shaped; a form most favourable, to the flow of tides, and
remarkable for that peculiar phenomenon the bore. The Clyde
at Port-Glasgow is about two miles broad, and at Greenock, it
varies from three to five miles. Afterwards it expands greatly.
In the account of the parish of Renfrew, there are some interest-
ing remarks on the deepening of the river, and the appearance
which it exhibited in the middle of the seventeenth century, as de-
duced from the details of a map published at Amsterdam in 1654.
In the west or seacoast of Renfrewshire, sea and land seem to run
much into that peculiar form termed bays. The principal towns,
Port-Glasgow, Greenock, and Gourock, are all situated on the
shores of bays. Port-Glasgow is separated from Greenock by the
Garvald Point, and Greenock from Gourock by Kempoch Point.
Fairley road or rade, extending beyond the limits of the county,
still preserves the character of the coast. It could cantain any
number of ships, likely to seek for shelter in it, free from every
storm, and having firm anchoring ground. The united bay of
Greenock and Crawfordsdyke was formerly termed the bay of St
Lawrence. Greenock harbour was first built in 1707, by a tax on


