
66                        BANFFSHIRE.

very small part of the trunk, hollowed, scathed and withered, sending
forth only one small solitary green branch, produced apparently
since the former wide-spreading boughs gave way, and likely soon
also to wither and disappear as they have done. The very fine
holly, also commemorated in that Account, which consisted of a
trunk about eight feet in circumference, separating into two beautiful
straight stems at about eight feet from the ground, has now only
one of these stems standing; and that stem is also in a very fragile
state, from pervading and consuming rot, which first disparted the
stems to the very ground, then rendered one of them incapable of
standing, and will soon do the same to the other. Thus the principal
ornaments of this delightful spot, once so abundant in excellent fruit
as well as in stately trees, are now either entirely gone, or are fast
hastening to decay. There are, however, besides the ashes already
mentioned, in a growing state, which may in time perhaps be not
inferior to their sires,-a holly bush, one of the stems of which is 5 1/2
feet in circumference; and a hawthorn tree, 4 1/2 feet in circumference.
There is likewise, in another part of the parish somewhat
lower down, also by the burn side, a hawthorn tree of much larger
dimensions. It is 8 1/2 feet round at the height of 6 1/2 feet from the
ground, and its wide-spreading umbrageous top, when richly covered
with flourish or with berries, is singularly striking and beautiful.

              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  This parish has long been the property of the Earls of Findlater
and Seafield. The date of its erection into a parish, the writer
has no means of ascertaining.
  Parochial Registers. - There are parochial registers as far back
as 1669: and the register of births and marriages is continuous
from that time to the present. There is no record of the proceedings
of the kirk-session earlier than 1684. The record continues
to 1687. There is then a blank till 1694, from which time
the record seems to have been kept with tolerable accuracy till
1731, when there is another blank till 1734. This is attributed
to the carelessness of the then session-clerk, who had left only "a
few confused scraps, which nobody could connect."
 Antiquities. - There was found, about twenty years ago, on the
confines of a farm called Liechestown, the resemblance of a swine's
head in brass, of the ordinary size, with a wooden tongue moveable
by springs. It had also eyes, and the resemblance in every respect
was wonderfully exact. It was, found at a depth of about six feet, in a


