
     Statistical Account

sale of the short be diminished, from the country people
having got more into the custom of buying cloth, that
deficiency is supplied by an increased demand for the
combed; as manufacturers find it more for their interest
to purchase this article, than order it as formerly from
Darlington and other towns in England.  The manufac-
ture of wool can hardly be said to be carried further in
this place, though the water of the loch, from its peculiar
softness, is well fitted for that, or any other in which soap
is used.  There is, however, 1 carpet-weaver, and 23
stocking frames.  Of there, 10 are employed by a com-
pany at Glasgow.  One stocking-weaver has 6 frames con-
stantly at work, and produced last year 2220 pairs*.
   Two tambour factories were lately erected here.  The
one employs 36 girls, who are bound for three years, and
have 1 s. 6 d. a-week the first year, 2 s. the second, and
2 s. 6 d. the third.  At the other, 50 are engaged for the
same time, who receive each 2 d. more a-week.  The
companies at Glasgow, for whom they are employed, al-
low an annual sum for instructing them in the principles
of religion: with that view, attendance is given every
Lord's day by two of the teachers in town.  Attention of

<FOOTNOTE>

*The trade in lint and linen yarn was once carried on here to a consi-
derable extent.  Some persons engaged in it acquired genteel fortunes.  One
versed in that business, states the former exchange of money for these ar-
ticles from abroad at 10,000 L. a-year.  There was at that time, also a great
linen market here.  The decline of this trade has been occasioned chiefly
by the introduction of cotton.  The manufacturers also of London and
Manchester, who were often supplied from this place, now import these
articles directly from the continent.  The manufacture of thread was
early introduced to this place, and carried on with success; but the de-
mand is new trifting, and the number of mills reduced to four.  Beau-
tiful damask linen was also wrought here some years ago, but the looms
are now applied to diaper.  Six looms are employed in the muslin branch:
What they weave is sent to Glasgow.


