
564                              FIFESHIRE.

growing on the borders of Lindores Loch. The Alnus glutinosa
grows wild on the banks of the Eden. The Betula alba, var. B,
or weeping birch, is found apparently wild near Bunzeon. There
are many sorts of willows in the parish, but the only sorts proba-
bly that are in a wild state are the beautiful species, Salix pentan-
dra, S. malifolia, S. repens, S. aquatica, and S. caprea. There
are many fine trees of S. alba, and some good specimens of other
kinds. There are no uncommon ferns; the Aspidium Oreopteris,
and A. Filix femina are found; also Asplenium Trichomanes, and
Blechnum boreale; Ophioglossum vulgatum; this rare plant is found
near the lime quarries; Equisetum arvense and E. palustre are
found in the marshy grounds.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Early Notices of the Parish-These are very scanty. In the
taxed roll of the Archbishoprick of St Andrews, drawn up in the
year 1547, Cults is included under the title of Bectoria de Qwilts.
(See Martin's Reliquiae Divi Andreae). A still more early no-
tice of it is found in the charters of the College of St Salvador, in
the University of St Andrews. In the first foundation charter of
that College, dated 1455, there is contained a disposition and mor-
tification for its behoof, by Bishop James Kennedy, of the teinds
of the parishes of Qwilts, Kemback, Dunninow, Forteviot, and
Kilmany, together with some chaplainries, all formerly belonging
to the see.-In the second foundation charter of St Salvador's,
dated at the Castle of St Andrews, 5th April 1458, it is ordained
that the College shall consist of a Doctor in Theology, who was
to be Provost or Principal, a Licentiate of Theology, a Bachelor in
Theology, four Masters of Arts, and six poor scholars to be taught
the speculative sciences. The Doctor in Theology being Princi-
pal, has by this charter the rectory of Qwilts assigned to him as his
endowment,-the Licentiate, or second master has the rectory of
Kemback, and the Bachelor, or third master, the rectory of Denino,
-the teinds of the other benefices being assinged to the Masters of
Arts and poor scholars. Prior to the Reformation, the Principal of
St Salvador's continued to be ex officio rector of Cults, serving
the cure by a Vicar or Curate. On the establishment of the Re-
formed, Church of Scotland, the surplus or unappropriated teinds
of the parish were still allotted to him as Titular. And in this ca-
pacity, the principal of the then United Colleges of St Salvador
and St Leonard opposed the augmentation of stipend sued for
by the ministers of Cults, and granted to him in 1756. The pa-


