
     of Callander.

   There are no openings or mouths of volcanoes in this part
of the country; yet the most frequent species of rock, about
Callander, is a composition, consisting of a great variety of
small stones, of different colours and sizes.  They are so firmly
cemented together, by a brown substance, as hard as stone
itself, that, when used in building houses or inclosures, they
resist the influence of the weather for ages, without losing a
single particle.  They defy the edge of the chissel to render
them smooth, but admit very well of being dressed with the
hammer, only that the cemented stones sometimes fly off from
the socket, in which the cement had inclosed them*.  Our
free-stone, on the other hand, falls away by the cutters, and
crumbles down by the alternate influence of frost and thaw,
of rain and sunshine, especially the red kind, which is nearest
to Callander:  But the gray free-stone of this country stands
very well.
   Whether the plumb-pudding stone be the Scoria of a vulcano,
in a hardened or petrified state, after having gathered a mul-
titude of stones in its progress, while the lava was in fusion,
or whether it be petrification of stones and earth and gravel,

     4 E 2

<FOOTNOTE>

Benledi, pointing N. E. and S. W., which is nearly the direction of all mines.
This mine yielded 20 s. of silver in every cwt. of ore.  But, after trying a
variety of experiments, and searching with much care, for veins, over all that
side of the mountain, the late commissioners of annexed estates drop it, because
the only vein which had been found, was too small to defray the expence.
There was also some ore discovered, many years ago, in Brea-leney, on the farm
of Tomascridan, and elsewhere, which is the property of Mr. Drummond of
Perth, as well as that side of Benledi where the late discovery was made.

*The learned and ingenious Dr. Anderson of Cotfield, said, when this plumb-
pudding stone was shown to him, that the rocks in the island of Lewis are of
the same composition.  Swinburn met with it in Italy, near Benevento; and it
is to be met with near Drummond Casile, and in other places of this country.


