
			   ROTHESAY.		      103

legiate church of Restalrig, near Edinburg, confirmed by char,
ter of King James V., 10th October 1515. And on the dissolu-
tion of those establishments at the Reformation, these tithes were
annexed to the chapel royal, the deand and prebends of which
still hold, or at least lately held them. John stewart, sheriff of
Bute, obtained a grant of the patronage of Rothesay of which
Crown, 18th January 1591, which still continues in the famuly of
Bute.
	The original yet remain close to the present parish church, was
choir of which yet remains close to the present parish church, was
probably built as early as 1296, the windows being of the form
then in use. It was one of the cathedral churches of the isles
during the times of Popery, and was the sole cathedral of that see
during the times of Protestant Episcopacy. On the south side of
the choir, there is the monument of a knight with his recumbent
figure, represented in the style of armour in use about the end of
the reign of Robert III. That he was one of the royal family is
certain from the coat of arms, but the individual cannot now be
ascertained. There is also the monument of a lady and child on
the opposite side, ruder in execution, and the form of the arch
over it shows it to be a century later. The area of the choir and
nave were used for interment by the principal heritors. The nave
was taken down in 1692, when a new church on the present site
was erected out of the ruins. This church also was taken down
in 1795, and the present church then erected.
	Antiquities.--At St Calmag's, near Ettrick, there is a Druid's
temple in considerable preservation, and there are faint traces if se-
veral other such temples in various parts of the parish. Numbers of
large standing stones and tumuli* are found, the memorials of
ancient battles. There are the ruins of thirteen hill-forts, some of
which have lately been demolished: and the ruins or vestiges of
twelve small chapels or oratories, including the one on Inchmar-
rock; such as the chapel in the court of the Castle of Rothesay;
St Bride's on the Chapel-Hill, close by the town; Kilmorie
M'Neils; St Nivian's Point; Nether Ardoscadale; St Calmag;
where a large stones cross still stands; Kildavanan; Kilmichael,
at the north end of the island, &c. There are also the following
castles, viz. 1. The Royal Castle of Rothesay above-mentioned,
which consists of a circular court flanked by four round towers;

<FOOTNOTE>A Timulus on the aide of a small stream near the Point House has beem partia-
lly opened, and is found to contains reany human bones roixed with the stones. ???
is said to have been the scence of a bloody battle between the Bannatynes of ????
and the Spences of North Kames:


