
     of Abernethy and Kinchardine.

complain of losses sustained by the failures of little dro-
vers.  It is though by some, that this might be pre-
vented from being so frequent.  The common method of
buying of cattle is, for any one that attempts droving, to
call a market for himself when he fees proper.  The ne-
cessity, ignorance, or greed of many, induce them often to
venture their cattle, for a shilling or two more a-head, with
a man that would be ruined if he lost a crown a-piece by
his parcel at Falkirk.  Sales are by these means often par-
tial, and seldom general,-picking a few beasts here and
there out of parcels.  It is though, a few public markets
in centrical places, corresponding to the fairs in the south,
would answer better; that heritors ought to attend to this,
and that they and their factors should get the best informa-
tion in their power of the prices of the times, and get men of
character and substance to come as buyers; that the factors
should attend them, and persuade the tenants to fell in a
reasonable moderate way, according to the times:  This
might make the fale more general, and often prevent much
money from being lost to tenants, and, of course, to heri-
tors.  For, surely, confidering what a fatiguing, hazardous
business droving is, men that pay well ought to be much
sought after, and much encouraged*.

<FOOTNOTE>

or tempt them to pilser.  If heritors were to assign small spots of land
for them in centrical places, near the principal farms, from whence labour
might be expected most, and let each of them have a house and garden,
and about two acres of grounds for corn and potatoes, this would maintain
a cow, and perhaps a small horse; and they might join about ploughing
their spots.  Four or six would be enough together; crowding a number of
poor people together might defeat the design.  This might answer well
for small tradesmen, such as country shoemakers, tailors, weavers, etc.
and promote their comfort, honesty and usefulness to the neighbour-
hood.

*State of Glebes.-Here, though out of place, a few observations occur
so be made on the original and general designation of ministers glebes, the


