
     Statistical Account

   Improvements.-One other circumstance that deserves to be
noticed, in the history of Islay, is the attention, that has of late
been effected in the police of it.  Changes and improvements,
in all countries, take their rise from the spirited exertions of
particular individuals, who seem born for the purpose of rous-
ing the multitude from a state of ignorance and torpor.
Within these dozen of years, the present proprietor has more
than doubled his rents; yet the tenantry, as well as himself,
are better off than ever.  They have given him, as it were,
an addition to his estate, by rescuing many acres, of moor and
moss, from a state of nature, and bringing them to yield
good crops of corn and grass.  On the other hand, the pro-
prietor has given the tenants such advantageous leases, that
they have greatly bettered their circumstances, as well as in-
creased their numbers, and are enabled to live much more
comfortably than formerly.  And indeed they are so sensible
of the advantages they enjoy, and are in general so contented
with their situation, that very few have emigrated from the
island: And the farms of those who have, have never con-
tinued long unpossessed.  When tenants are emancipated from
the avarice of monopolisers, they seem to breathe a purer air,
and improvements go on rapidly; for nothing has tended more
to excite the spirit of emigration, than the Demon of Monopoly,
which leads the avaricious to add land to land, and farm to
farm.  The writer of this article, cannot approve of the maxim,
"That the more rents you lay on, the tenants will work the
better."  This, like the Egyptian bondage, is exacting bricks
without straw, and tends to check, rather than incite, the spirit
of industry.  But if the moderation and lenity, that have
hitherto been observed in Islay, continue to be adhered to, we
may venture to promise, that the people will rather stay at
home, to improve the lands of their native island, than go
abroad, to cultivate the wilds of America.  Amen!


