
     1060                         PERTHSHIRE.

     rebel army over the Tay on the ice towards Dundee.  Prince
     Charles also visited Scone in 1745.
       The residence of Lord Stormont had been chiefly built by Lord
     Gowrie and the first Lord Scone, but considerable additions were
     made by David, seventh Lord Stormont, and Earl of Mansfield,
     as heir to his uncle William, Lord Chief-Justice.  The arms of
     the first Lord Scone were painted on the ceilings and walls, with
     the date 1627.  The gallery, which was about 167 feet in length,
     with a wooden ceiling painted in water-colours, and representing,
     the hunting, and hawking of James VI., is said to have been erected
     by this nobleman.  But the house was never finished, nor entirely
     furnished.  There was no communication between some of the
     adjoining buildings which made it necessary to pass through the
     outer court to reach several of the apartments.
       Palace.-The present "Palace of Scone," as it is now generally
     called, was built about the beginning of the present century, having
     been begun in 1803 and finished 1808.  The design was by the late
     William Atkinson of Grove-end, London, and the erection might
     cost about L.60,000 or L.70,000.  The ground on which the
     former house stood is occupied by this splendid mansion; but in its
     imposing Gothic style of architecture, and magnificent halls and
     spacious apartments, the modern palace is incomparably superior.
     The late Earl of Mansfield, the grand-nephew of the Chief-Jus-
     tice, spared no expense on this edifice.  In most instances, the
     walls of the former house were entirely taken down and rebuilt.
     A new front, facing the river, 240 feet in length, was entire
     addition.  The apartments were greatly enlarged, with the excep-
     tion of the gallery, which is now 150 feet long, part of it having
     been taken off for an entrance by a porch.  It is a verv elegant
     room.  The floor is of tesselated oak, the dark having been found
     in the beds of the Tay and the Earn.  On the windows, partly of
     stained glass, are represented the various coats of arms of the fa-
     mily.  The roof still retains somewhat of an antique form.  It is
     splendidly furnished, having at the upper end a large and richly-
     toned organ, and in different parts of the room several very valu-
     able cabinets, lately purchased, of the age of Louis XIV.  Among
     the ornaments are marble busts and vases of great beauty, both
     as to material and workmanship.  Almost the only portions of the
     old walls not taken down but merely incased, are, in that part of
     the house immediately under the dining-room and the draw-
     ing-room.  The dining-room, music-room, and Library, are ele-
     gant and spacious apartments, containing, in the midst of many


