
                           PARISH OF INNERLEITHEN.

         PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                      THE REV.  JAMES PATE, MINISTER.
               THE REV.  PATRICK BOOTH, ASSISTANT MINISTER.

 Boundaries.-- The parish of Innerleithen is of a triangular figure,
the base of which rests on the river Tweed, while the opposite
angle falls on that ridge of mountains which bounds the prospect
from Edinburgh, towards the south, and is well known by the
name, of the Morfoot Hills.  It here  meets the parishes of Ed-
dlestone, and Temple,and were lines drawn from this point, to
form the other two sides, one of these would fall upon the Tweed
to the west, two miles below Peebles, and the other, where it meets
the parish of Stow on the east, five miles above the junction of the
river Ettrick.  The parish contains, according to Armstrong, only
27,587 English acres.
 Topographical Appearances.-- The group of mountains in this
parish forms part of that chain which runs from south-west to north-
east, through the pastoral  districts of the south of Scotland, until it
sinks into the German sea, near St Abb's Head.   The highest sum-
mits of this range are found where Tweeddale and Annandale meet
Selkirkshire,--Hartfell, White Coomb, and Loch Craig, being
2800 feet above the sea.   The parish is intersected by several
deep glens, each traversed by its crystal rivulet,tending towards
the main river.    The largest of these rivulets is called LeIthen
Water, and gives its name to the parish.   The only level ground in
the parish is the alluvial land along the banks of the river, -- which
in Scotland is called holm or haugh.   This being formed during the
course of centuries, by the overflowings of the river, is of a very
rich soil, though in general more suited for permanent pasture
than for tillage.   The same kind of land to a lesser extent may
likewise be found upon the Leithen for three or four miles above
its junction with the Tweed.  A narrow border of gravelly loam
likewise skirts the foot of the hills.   The valley of the Tweed in
Peebles-shire, like most of the upland valleys in Scotland, having
been originally a chain of lochs, the soil consists of rounded and
					3


