
			CRAILING.  			187

    aid, which once distinguished the Scottish peasantry, is not mani-
    fested to any great degree in the border districts.
	Inns, &c. -Small as the parish is, I am sorry to state, we have
    two public-houses, both at the village of Crailing. These are cer-
    tainly not supported by the people in the parish, but by traffic on
    the high road; yet their existence is productive of decided evil.
    The circumstance of two being found so near each other in a small
    village, arises from the trustees of the county (through what may
    be pronounced a very ill-judged policy) having granted license to
    the toll-bar.
	Fuel. -Dried turf was formerly much used for fuel; but is now
    almost entirely laid aside. * Coal is the staple article. It is brought
    from Northumberland, a distance of twenty-five miles. It is not
    so good, and used to be much dearer, than that found in Mid-
    Lothian; but, from the great number of persons who occupy them-
    selves in driving, the price has considerably fallen, and has of late
    been about 13s. per ton: farther up the country it is higher. The
    peasantry have a sufficient quantity of coals brought to them in
    their masters' carts, -a circumstance which adds materially to their
    comfort.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	The state of the parish, as compared with that exhibited in last
    Statistical Report, indicates advancement. The rental was then
    L. 2500; it is now nearly tripled, being above L. 7000. The
    whole grounds are finely enclosed and drained; and husbandry,
    which, forty years ago, was making rapid improvements, is now
    practised to a degree of perfection nowhere surpassed.
	The only thing wanted is increased facility of communication
    with the sea and the metropolis, which might easily be afforded
    by the construction of rail-roads; but there is no great prospect
    of such an improvement being speedily effected. In a quiet inland
    country, it is difficult to stimulate to efforts requiring enterprise
    and involving hazard. Within the parish itself we stand greatly
    in need of a bridge across the Tiviot; and we are not without the
    hope of seeing ere long realized, the advantages which such an
    erection would confer.

<FOOTNOTE>The minister has the right of casting turf, -a privilege which might once have
    been of some value, but is now scarcely worth the expense attending it.

	January 1835.


