
340                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

vent, signed a charter of resignation of the lands of Pittenkerrie
Brathens, Invery, and the kirk lands of Banchory, in favour of
Alexander Burnett and his heirs-male, &c.; which lands were
incorporated into the barony of Leys, by a charter of James VI.
1595, containing a novodamus of the whole. In this condition,
that estate, with the exception of the parts known under the names
of Raemoir, Glassel, and Invery, remains with the descendants
of its original proprietors. All the other properties in the parish
have changed hands. The fourth son of the said Alexander Bur-
nett was Gilbert, educated at the University of Aberdeen, and af-
terwards a Professor of Philosophy, first at Basle, and then at
Montauban. He was held in such esteem, that a national synod
of the Protestants in France appointed his philosophical writings
to be published at the expense of their clergy; but, he dying be-
fore his manuscripts were arranged, his book of Ethics only was
printed.
	In 1638, Sir Thomas Burnett of Leys, who had been created
a Baronet by Charles I., and who was the eldert brother of James
Burnett of Craigmyle, from whom the Burnetts of Monboddo are
descended, and of Lord Crimond, the father of Bishop Burnett
of Salisbury, became one of the most conspicuous in the north
against the measures of the Court; and, with the lairds of Dun,
Morpbey, and Carnegie, proceeded through various districts as
commissioner, and accoinpanied the Marquis of Montrose to Aber-
deen, where they subscribed the Covenant with certain limitations,
of which Dr William Guild, minister there, and Mr Robert Reid,
minister of this parish, were the ostensible authors. He lived,
however, on friendly terms with the heads of the opposite party,
and finding, at length, that, both sides were unreasonably deter-
mined on extremities, he retired from public life, and remained
unmolested by either. He was a patron of learning, and mortified
to the College of Old Aberdeen, "four crafts for three bursars of
philosophy," the annual revenue of which has increased to L.318,
6s. 7d, He, besides, erected and endowed, conjunctly with Dr
Alexander Reid, two schools in the village of Banchory, "a gram-
mar-school for boys, and a sewing-school for girls." He also
erected and endowed, with 6300 merks, an hospital or alms-house
for six poor men or women, commuted afterwards into an annual
allowance in money to the poor on the barony of Leys. Somd
of his manuscript papers and letters indicate a cultivated intellect,
and a generous sympathy with the religion, liberty, and learning



