
               		RATHVEN.                     253

Church-Yard. The late Catholic Bishop Paterson of Edinburgh
was also a native of this parish, and the son of poor, but industri-
ous and honest parents.
  Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, the Earl of Seafield,
to whom belongs Rannes and Findochtie; His Grace the Duke of
Richmond, proprietor of Couffurrach, Leitchieston, and Burnside;
Sir James Gordon, Bart. of Letterfourie and Nether Buckie; John
Gordon, Esq. of Cluny, owner of the lands of Freuchnie, part of
Buckie, and Gollachie; Adam Gordon, Esq. of Cairnfield; and
the Misses Stuart of Tannachy.
  Sir James Gordon, Bart., Adam Gordon of Cairnfield, and the
Misses Stuart are resident John Gordon, Esq. of Cluny, resides
occasionally, during the season, at Buckie Lodge; and Dr Kyle,
Catholic Bishop of Germanicia, at Presholm.
  Parochial Registers.--The earliest records of discipline com-
mence on the 25th December 1698, and have been very regularly
kept till 1736.  During that period, however, they really contain
nothing, in any degree, particularly interesting, except the sum-
moning delinquents before the session, who, upon confessing their
guilt, and after severe penance in sackcloth, and many sharp re-
bukes before the congregation, were restored again to communion
with the church.  From 1787 till the present time, these records
have been regularly kept.
  Registration of marriages began at Whitsunday 1716, and that
of baptisms in the same year.  Great regularity has been observed
in both from the above date till 1746; but, from this time till
1791, and even down to the present day, many Episcopalians and
Roman Catholics do not register their children.  No registration
of deaths has ever been kept in the parish.
  Antiquities.--There are many remains of antiquity in this pa-
risb, particularly of Druidical temples or cairns. The most re-
markable and striking of these is one on the heights of Corriedown,
called the Cove Stanes.  A considerable portion of the stones of
this cairn was employed in building the present mansion-house of
Letterfourie. Mr Gordon, the father of the present proprietor,
examined three of them to the foundation, and found only char-
coal, and a whitish substance resembling the ashes of wood or
bones. He supposed that the low grounds, in the vicinity of his
house, had abounded in wood, as large pieces of oak and fir were
dug out of the hollows now under cultivation.  There is a large
collection of stones on an eminence in one of Earl Seafield's en-


