
     of Maryton.

bolls of lime shells to the acre, and well dunged; the land
is then sown with wheat.  The next crop is pease or
beans; after that barley and grass-seeds, generally red clo-
ver; 1 year in grass, which is cut and given to the horses
in the house.  After the grass, oats; then a fallow again,
and so on.  The other mode is first a fallow, then wheat;
pease or beans after the wheat; then barley; then oats.
After the oats, a fallow, and so on.  There are likewise
two modes followed in cropping the lighter soils.  One is,
the land is made free of weeds, and the soil reduced; it
is then limed and dunged, and sown with turnips in the
drill; after the turnips, barley and grass-seeds; two years
in grass, the first cut for hay, the second for pasture; then
a crop of oats; after this turnips, etc. according to the a-
bove rotation.  The other mode is, the land having, been
4 or 5 years in grass is limed, and broken up for oats; after
the oats barley, then a green crop; after that barley and
grass-seeds, when it is laid down for pasture, and remains
in that state 4 or 5 years.  The average returns of an acre
are, wheat 10 bolls, barley 8 bolls, oats 8, beans from 8 to
14, pease from 4 to 10.  The grain in general is of a very
fine quality.  An acre of turnips is worth from L. 4 to
L. 5 Sterling.  A good deal of flax was formerly raised in
this parish, but that practice is now much given up, it ha-
ving been found by experience not to be profitable.  The
husbandry is almost all carried on by horses, there not being
above one oxen plough in the parish.  Ploughs, with 2
strong horses in each, are universally used.  The tenants
breed a good many of their horses themselves.  The farm-
ers, upon the lighter soils, likewise rear a number of black
cattle; but the strong land not being well adapted for pas-
ture, the tenants keep but few cattle through the summer.
In order to consume the straw, and make dung for the
farm, they either purchase cattle in the autumn and set


