
894                    LANARKSHIRE.

   The yearly average of baptisms is not equal to that of births,
for some children have remained unbaptised.  But I am unable
to give a nearer approximation to the truth than what the following
statement, regarding the baptisms, may afford.  The average num-
ber of baptisms yearly in the Established parish church for the last
seven years, as per session-books, has been 53 5/7; in the Relief
church, as furnished from accurate lists, by the Rev. Mr Cameron,
exclusive of the children of persons not living in the parish,
44; total, 97 3/7.
   It ought to be observed that, strictly speaking, a few more births
should be added, besides the unbaptised, as several born in Kil-
bride have been baptised in Eaglesham.  This remark applies
principally to the Dissenters.
   It appears from a list kept by the grave-digger, who is also
church-officer, and a person who may be relied on for accuracy,
that the yearly average number of burials in the parish church-
yard for the last seven years has been 71.
   It appears from the parish register that the yearly average of
marriages for the same time has been 29 4/7.
   There are no nobility resident in the parish.  There may be
from half a dozen to a dozen persons of independent fortune.
There are from 80 to 90 proprietors of land of the yearly value
of L.50 and upwards.
   Character, &c. of the People.--A considerable portion of the
people are very poor.  This is particularly the case in the village
of Kilbride, where there is a number of weavers, but no regular
manufactory to keep the people in employment.  In the country
parts, the population are generally comfortable, industrious, con-
tented, and influenced by the religious habits of their forefathers.
There are many persons in the villages of most excellent character,
both intellectually, morally, and religiously.
   Poaching in game, it is to be feared, prevails to a considerable
extent.  Smuggling used to be prevalent, but is not so now.
There is no licensed pawnbroker, nor is there any reason to sup-
pose that the system of pawnbroking is carried on.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--A considerable portion of the upper and southern
part of the parish has never yet been in tillage, but continues in a

<FOOTNOTE>and, as to the comparative state of the population in 1821 and 1836, be of some use in
leading to an approximation to what is novr the truth.  It was made up by the
schoolmaster in June 1821.


