
     Of Corstorphine.

hours which, in the season of youth, should be devoted to
play, they often are tempted to embrace the opportunity
of making their escape.  In the works of agriculture, in
which they are employed, they often also discover that
they are amused.  In manufacturing places, where num-
bers are necessarily assembled, the poison of vice spread
wide, and enters deep; in those of advanced years, the
degradation and corruption which the human mind suffers,
is painful to consider; their politics too often degenerate
into tumult and rebellion; their religion, if they even
prosess any, into idle disputation, discord, and schism.
The manners of the people employed in husbandry are
generally marked by contentment, respect for religion, and
every peaceable disposition.  Their health seldom needs
to be repaired by the aid of the physician; and associa-
tions, for relief in distress of this nature, are hardly to be
found amongst this class of men, as is stated by Mr. Ro-
bertson in his Agricultural Survey:  But amongst manufac-
turers, where it is impaired by the unwholsomeness of
their prossession, or the consequences of debauchery*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*These observations I have not made from theoretical principles, but from
actual observations; which was confirmed to me by a neighbouring clergyman,
into whose parish manufactures, to a considerable extent, have been introduced.
The persons there employed are collected from all the manufacturing towns in
England, Ireland, and Scotland.  They are continually Fluctuating; feel no
degree of interest in the prosperity of the place; and act as if delivered from
all the restraints of decency and decorum.  In general, they manifest a total
disregard to character, and indulge in every vice which opportunity enables them
to perform.
   The influence of their contagious example must spread, and familiarize to
crimes persons who formerly considered them with abhorrence.  While I enter-
tain no doubts respecting these observations, on the subject of manufactures is
general, I am also of opinion, that, under a certain modification, they may be
introduced into a country parish, where agriculture ought to be the principal


