
                             PARISH OF DALMENY.

           PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN & TWEEDDALE.

                       THE REV. JAMES SCOTT, MINISTER.

            I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.--THE ancient name of the parish, as appears from char-
ters of the twelfth century, was Dumanie or Dumanyn.  In others
of a later date, it is written indiscriminately, Dummanyn, Dumanie,
Dalmany, or as at present Dalmeny.  It is understood to be of
Celtic origin, and to signify Black heath, or gloomy spots, of which
there is reason to believe, the greater part of the parish at one
time consisted.
    Extent and Boundaries.--The parish proper, exclusive of Auld-
cathie, which was once a separate parish or vicarage, and which
lies at a distance of 1 1/2 miles from its western extremity, (being dis-
joined from it by parts of Kirkliston and Abercorn,) is about 4
miles in length, and 2 1/2 in breadth.  It stretches along the south-
ern shore of the Firth of Fort from a burn which separates it
from Cramond parish on the east, to that of Abercorn on the
west.  Its southern boundary is kirksliston parish and the river
Almond.  The name of the disjoined portion, Auldcathie, pro-
perly, Alcathaek, signifies in the Celtic, rivulet of the defile "or
battle burn."  Its length, which is one and a-half mile, is termi-
nated by the parish of Linlithgow on the west, and Kirkliston on
the east: its breadth three-fourths of a mile, by Ecclesmachan on
the south, and Abercon on the north.  The two portions toge-
ther comprise an area of 9.371 miles.
     Topography, Geology, &c.--In the parish of Dalmeny proper,
which, from its proximity to the Forth, its undulating surface, and
its high state of cultivation, stands almost unrivalled for its beauty,
there are three considerable elevations, ranging at about 380 feet
above the level of the sea.  Dunda Hills, on the west, runs for
three-quarters of a mile from nearly north-west to south-east, pre-
senting to the south-west a preciptious front to the hieght of about





