
     Statistical Account

and FORDON, in his History, remarks it as a curiosity.
There are also perch and trout in this lake.

   Palace.-The BISHOP'S PALACE is the next object to
which the attention is most naturally called.  It is situated
in the eastern extremity of the parish, on the bank of the

<FOOTNOTE>

from the chartulary, that, in 1451, the bishop got this village
erected into a burgh of barony, and the next year into a burgh
of regality; but there is now no other vestige of it than a mar-
ket cross.  But although it is evident, that, at a period compa-
ratively not remote, the sea flowed into the space which the
lake now occupies, and covered, besides, a large extent of land
at each end of it; yet it is also obvious, that, at a still more re-
cent period, the bounds of this lake were more limited than at
present.  For, a few years ago, when the canal, which had long
been neglected, was cleaned out and enlarged, a causeway was
discovered, stretching from this parish quite across the lake, in
which there were several passages for the water, each about 3
feet wide, and covered by a thick flag-stone; and, upon its ap-
pearance, a tradition was recollected, that this causeway was cal-
led the Bishops's Steps, and had been formed by his influence,
for the accommodation of the ministers of St. Andrew's, who
officiated also in the church of Ogueston, (since united to Drainy,)
both having been mental churches before the establishment of
Presbytery.  Bishop Falconer told the author this; and that
the Bishop's priest, who officiated, had prayers in the forenoon
in the one, and in the afternoon in the other, and thereafter
his dinner in the Castle every Sunday.  This causeway was
soon converted, by Mr BRANDER of PITGAVENY, into a substan-
tial road, by which a more direct communication was opened
between Elgin and the shore.  And as he is now farther im-
proving the canal, so as to gain nearly two feet of additional
fall, it is expected, when this work is completed, that the lake will
be again reduced to its ancient narrow limits.  It may be farther
observed, that it has been conjectured, that the vast quantity of
land washed up by the sea, on the coast between Nairn and Find-
hord, and drifted eastward by the wind over the estate of Cu-
bin, destroyed the oysters on the coast, and shut up the lake on
the west, which, preventing any current, permitted the alluvion
of the river Spey to close it in at the east, as the appearance of
the ground seems still to shew.


