
238                      BANFFSHIRE.

the manufacture in the summer season. In winter, four or five
are employed in preparing the clay. In consequence of this last
operation being insufficiently performed, the work had fallen into
disrepute, and therefore probably has not been a remunerating con-
cern for a considerable time, but, under careful management, it
has again begun to command a large trade. The introduction of
tile-draining may be expected still greatly to increase it. Price of
roofing tiles per hundred, 7s. 6d.; draining do. without bottoms,
3s. per hundred; bricks, 3s. 6d. per hundred.
   The bleaching and preparation of threads and stockings f6r the
market was formerly prosecuted extensively at old bridge of Boin-
die, in connection with Messrs Robinson's manufactorv in Banff.
Both the manufactory and bleachfield, with other similar works in
this part of Scotland, have been long ago abandoned. At the
above point there is now a saw-mill in full employment, *-work
executed at 1s. 3d. per 100 feet of wood. Several miles up the
stream, on the Boindie side, there are two meal-mills. On the
burn of Boyn, there is a wool carding mill, largely employed, chief-
ly for country work, where the weaving and dyeing of cloth is also
carried on. On this stream, there were formerly two lint-mills;
one is abandoned, and the other little employed. Proceeding down-
wards from these, there is a flour and barley mill, and a meal mill.
The astriction of lands to particular mills is now in the course of
being abolished; and the multures have been commuted into a
money payment with the rent. The multures, including service
on some lands previously to this change, amounted to one-eleventh
of the whole grain milled. The charge for milling oats is from 6d.
to 8d. per boll.
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Marhet-Town, &c.-The nearest market-town on the east side
of the parish is Banff, at the distance of a mile and a half from
the boundary. Portsoy stands at a like distance on the west. In
each of these, there is a port,office and a ready market for grain,
and in the former, for the produce of the dairy. The only village
in the parish is Whitehills, already described. The turnpike-road
from Banff to Portsoy extends above three miles within this pa-
rish from east to west ; and the branch which diverges from it to
Keith and Huntly on the left, extends a distance of about two miles
to the point at which it joins Ordiquhill. These, and the several
county roads pass the streams by which the parish is bounded by

<FOOTNOTE>In connection with it, there is row a pit for kyanizing wood, &c.


