
596			    AYRSHIRE.

dress thamselffs to sermones and sacraments to thair said paroch
kirk; and in the winter seasone thair is difficultie in ryding vpon horse
and walking vpon feete; that the most pairt of the saids parishioners
of Beithe being distant from thair said paroch kirk be the space, of
three or four myllis or thairby, cannot goodlie address and con-
vene thameselffs thairto be reassoun of the stormes of weather,
and of the deip and evil wayes adjacent thairto." The statute
then proceeds to enact, that there be ane new kirk planted in a
re commodious part of the parish, and that there be a new
manse and glebe, conform to law,--the new kirk, manse, and
glebe to be built at the expense of the heritors, who were to have
power to apply the old buildings, glebe, and glebe lands for that
purpose; but the proposal was not put into execution.
	Mr Fullarton was succeeded by Mr Patrick Colville, a man of
talent, who was frequently employed in committees on public
affairs, during the troublesome times of his incumbency. At the
indulgence, Mr William Maitland from Whithorn was appointed
by an act of the Privy -Council in 1669, and in 1672. Under the
second indulgence, Mr William Creighton was conjoined with
him, though it is doubtful if he ever accepted.
     	It is well-known that the indulged ministers had great difficulty
in recovering their stipends, and it appears that Mr Maitland had
been in that predicament. There records of the privy-council, lst
March 1677, have the following entry, "anent a petition presented
by Mr William Maitland, minister at Beith, showing that the pe-
titioner had served the cure at the said kirk, the two byegone years,
1675 and 1676, without receiving any stipend; albeit he hath
himself and a numerous family to manteane, which he will not
be longer able to undergo unless the Lords of Counsel be pleased
to allow him the said stipend for the said two years service; and
therefore humbly supplicating that an order and warrant might be
granted for that effect, in manner under-written; the Lords of His
Maj. Privie Counsel having heard and considered the  foresaid
petition, do hereby grant order and warrant to the heritors and
others, liable in payment of the stipend of the said paroch of Beith,
to make payment to the petitioner, and that for ilk, one of said
crops and years of God, 1675 and 1676, and ordains letters of
horning and others to be direct thereupon in form, as effeirs."
	Mr Maitland was succeeded 1681 by Mr Robinson, a curate,
whose appointment is said to have been very unpopular. After the
Revolution Mr. Alexander Orr was admitted in 1690. In 1700,

				3


