
     of Kirkconnel.

Cleugh has come from the side opposite to the lime rock.
But none of these mines or rocks have ever been wrought,

     Will no fam'd chief support this generous maid?
     Once more the patriot's arduous path resume?
     And, comely from his native plains array'd,
     Speak future glory to the BRITISH LOOM?

   To what is here suggested, with every advantage of poetical
beauty and patriotic ardour, may be added, that every other aid
should be given towards the revival of the woollen manufac-
ture in Scotland.  With respect to farmers, every tax or public
impost, that bears hard upon them, or the labouring poor, should
be removed or mitigated.  Some method too, that may be judg-
ed consistent with equity and humanity, should be adopted, to
supply the present scarcity of hands, a much more formidable
evil than all the exorbitance of price for rural labour.  In-
formed of our situation, transmarine strangers, many of them
sufficiently exceptionable, have flocked hither, professedly in
quest of employment, but very little to the advantage of the
country.  Much better, surely, would it have been, to have
employed the military in making the great roads, which has
often been done formerly; and to have allowed them proper
wages for their work:  Or, to have got a competent number of
our own sober, temperate, hardy, countrymen from the North;
by which means the spirit of emigration, in that quarter, would
have been much abated; the business of great works, and eve-
ry kind of manufacture carried on, without any detrimental in-
terference with each other; and much of the inconvenience, at-
tending the unrestrained influx, and the indiscriminate admis-
sion unknown characters, prevented.
   That a measure, so obvious and easy in itself, and so directly
tending to public utility, should have been so long and so much
overlooked, is truly surprising, and perfectly unaccountable;-I
had almost said, inexecutable.  At last, indeed, there occurred an
incident, that served to excite the tender and generous sensibili-
ties of human nature, into a powerful co-operation with the
maxims of propriety, expediency, and sound policy, in favour
of that part of the scheme just now suggested, which relates to
our fellow citizens, the Highlanders.  It was when a consider-
able body of that very valuable people were crowding to the
Western shore, in order to emigrate to the other side of the At-


