
     of Dalry.

killed one of these noxious animals*.  At a small distance
from the churh of Dalry, and just at the brink of the Ken,
there is one of those eminences called moats, which is still
almost entire, and appears to great advantage from the Kells
side of the river.  From this moat, one has a delightful
view of the river, and of the landscapes on each side of it.
There is another moat in Lochrenny, on the border of Glen-
cairn, but it makes no conspicuous figure, as it stands on a
low spot of ground. In the church-yard, there is an aile of
the old church, now quite detached from the new, which is
the burial place of the family of Kenmore.  There is also
a square piece of ground enclosed, with a blackish wall a-
bout 7 feet high, with a bowl supported by a standard at

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Laird of Lochinvar, as the story is told, after his pursuit and con-
quest of the boar, finding himself weary have cut out the tongue and
put it in his pocket, lay down near the spot where he flew him, and fell
asleep.  In the mean time a gentlemen, called Station who had also been
in pursurt of the boar, finding him overcome, and his conqueror asleep,
immediately cut off the head and carried it to the King, representing to
him, that he himself had killed the boar, and was entitled to the reward
which his Majesty was wont to confer on the conqueror of such an animal.
The King, not suspecting his veracity, rewarded him accordingly. The Laird
of Lochinvar having awoke, and missing the boar's head, conjectured what
had happened; and therefore went with all possible expectation to Edin-
burgh, and presented himself before the King, expressing his apprehension
that the reward of merit had been bestowed on an impostor.  To convince
the King of the imposition put upon him, he produced the tongue from his
pocket, affirming, that if the head which had been presented to his Majesty
were inspected, it would be sound to want that very tongue.  The head
accordingly having been examined, the King was perfectly satisfied
with the evidence of the land's representation, and asked him, how he had
killed the boar.  May it pleased your Majesty, says the land, I just " gored
him down."  Very well, says the King, as the reward of your merit, you
shall be henceforward Goredown knight of Lochinvar.  Ever since that pe-
riod, a boar's head has been assumed in the armorial ensigns of the Gordon,
perhaps whether or not connected with the knights of Lochinvar, after-
wards Viscounts of Kenmure.

     VOL. XIII. H


