
				ELGIN.                      23

members of the association about two years ago, connected with it
a reading-room, supplied with a sufficient number of daily London
and provincial newspapers, to which many of the most respectable
gentlemen of the town have become subscribers; but the reading-
room is conducted without any interference with the funds or pro-
perty of the original establishment. The Elgin Courant, a weekly
newspaper, is published in the town on Friday morning.
  Alms-Houses.-James VI. by royal charter, dated the last day
of February 1620, granted to the provost, bailies, councillors,
and community of the burgh of Elgin and their succesors, the
hospice or preceptory of Maison Dieu, founded for the aliment and
support of certain poor and needy persons, with the right of patron.
age of the same, together with all the revenue belonging to the said
hospice, for the support of certain poor and needy persons, accord-
ing to the original establishment thereof, to maintain and support a
teacher of music and other liberal arts, and to answer and promote
the affairs of the burgh, because the common revenue was barel suffi-
cient. There are lands also of considerable extent conveyed by the
grant for the same purposes; but there is no evidence that they
ever were in the possession of the magistrates, and probably the,
charter gave right only to the casualties of these lands, payable
at the time to the hospital of Maison Dieu, the dominium utile being
in the hands of lay impropriators. By virtue of this charter a Beid-
house has been erected within the burgh, to contain four Beidmen
having garden ground attached, and as far back as can be ascertain-
ed these four paupers have each received annually four bolls of bar-
ley, or about three imperial quarters, out of the rents of the pre-
ceptory lands.
   Hospitals, Dispensaries, and Lunatic Asylums.--Grey's Hospi-
tal for the sick poor of the town and county of Elgin, was opened
for the reception of patients in,1819. It was founded by Dr Alex-
ander Grey of Calcutta, and the funds which he destined to its
support are adequate to, the expenditure. The average number
of sick admitted to the hospital during a year is about 250, and the
average number in it at one time is 26. Dr Dougal, a medical
practitioner in Elgin, willed L. 15 per annum for the purchase
of medicine, to be dispensed to the poor. This sum was hand-
ed over to the Trustees of Grey's Hospital by those to whom it
had been left in trust, and medicines and advice are now given
at the, hospital to more than 300 out-patients annually. A pau-
per lunatic asylum, near the hospital, is just completed, and


