
     Of Auchterless.

this parish, and most worthy of attention, is the camp oppo-
site to the farming village of Glenmailen, from which it is
only divided by a deep ravine; the small river of Ythan run-
ning in the bottom.  One side of the work follows the gentle
windings of the river's lofty bank; two others are straight
lines, the profiles of the vallum correct, and all the parts well
defined, and in great preservation:  The fourth side is oblite-
rated so far by the plough, that it appears only like a large
ridge of land, raised to a superior height.  The interior area
comprehends 90 acres Scotch, or 120 of English measure.
The situation of this grand work appears advantageous, judi-
ciously placed, just where the Ri-hill, (a part of the extensive
moors of Fond-land), by a gentle declivity, is joined to the
plain champain country below, and covered at the distance of
about 12 miles by another great work on Barra-hill, by a
small station opposite to Pitcaple on the Urie, or Glen-water,
and surrounded by numerous other smaller fortified posts.  In
its near vicinity are found double lines of intrenchment on
the hill, and farming ground of Tilly Murgen, having all the
appearance of military works thrown up in ancient times:
And still nearer, not far from its N. E. angle, on the N. side
of the Ythan, and foot of the Berry-hill of Auchterless,
there is a part of a ditch and rampart very distinct, the rest
worn ont by the lapse of time, and the constant operation of
the plough.  From the nature of the ground, however, where
it stands, it could never have been of any considerable extent,
probably no larger than the above mentioned military work
near Pitcaple*.  The figure of the camp (by supposing it

     VOL. XII. R r

     7

<FOOTNOTE>

*The appellations of ri-dikes, and grim-dikes, that have been given by the
country people, sometimes only declare a pretty high antiquity, because the
former being Gaelic, must have been given when that was the mother-tongue
of the country; and the latter grim or grumm being Teutonic, might have been


