
                                ALLOA.                         13


    Those of the above within parentheses, are not in Dr Parnell's
list, but have all been found in the parish ; as have also a species
of star-fish (Asterias,) and the cuttlefish (Septa officinalis,) com-
mon on the British coasts. In 1835, a specimen of the uncom-
mon and very beautiful opah,(Lampris luna) was obtained from
the firth here. It is common on the coast of Guinea, and but
rarely caught off the shores of Britain. Its common weight is
nearly 80 lbs. It has a smooth skin, without scales; the eyes are
large and the irides of a scarlet hue, encompassed with a gold-
coloured circle; and it is destitute of teeth. The upper part of the
body is of a beautiful green, blue, and violet intermixed, and en-
riched with a shining golden hue, like the feathers of a peacocks
and speckled with white spots; the chops are of a pale red colour;
the nose, gills, and belly silvery; and all the fins of a bright scar-
let hue.
    These and innumerable other living creatures inhabit the
waters which cover the surface of the globe, especially the tropi-
cal seas, where they
             "Graze the sea-weed, their pasture, and thro'groves
             Of coral stray; or sparkling with quick glance,
             Show to the sun their waved coats dropt with gold."
Well, then, might Oppian say, In mari multa latent.
            "In the waters we maay see all creatures,
            Even all that on the earth are to be found;
            As if the world were in deep waters drowned."

 The salmon, "king of fresh water-fisbes," the migration of
which is analogous to that of birds, is bred in rivers connected
with the sea, but so remote as to be beyond the salt or brackish
water. The spawning season in the Forth is believed to extend
from the beginning of November to the end of January. The fry
or young salmon migrate towards the sea chiefly during April and
May, and return in July, August, and September, from 4 lb. to
10 lb.weight. The descent of the parent fishes to the sea com
mences in February, and continues till the end of April.
  Much new light has recentlv been thrown upon the natural his-
tory of the salmon; and the very difficult question, what is a par?
                    _

                          DIMENSIONS.
  From the tip of one fin to the tip of the other,                        5 feet  9 inches
  From the tip of the nose to the point of the tail,                      7       3
  Across the middle of the eyes, and across the small back fins, each     2       2
  The length from the very back of the eyes to the very beginning
      of the tail,                                                        3       0
  The thickness of the thickest part,                                     0       7


