
                            CLYNE.                             161

   als.  The sittings are free, as is the case all over the Duke of Suth-
   erland's property, in this county and in Ross-shire.  The manse
   which was built about the same time with the church, has also re-
   ceived an addition, and it is now a handsome and commodious re-
   sidence.  The glebe contains 12 acres of rich soil. The hill
   rights belonging to it were lately exchanged for an equivalent of
   arable land, which is admitted to be far more convenient and ad-
   arable for the minister.  The stipend is 93 quarters barley,
   and L. 23 in money, including the allowance for communion ele-
   ments.  The average number of communicants is 65.
      A catechist is paid by voluntary contributions from the people.
   He perambulates the parish frequently, visiting every family, and
   is a most useful and important assistant to the minister.
      Collections are made periodically for the Inverness Infirmary,
   the four Assembly schemes, and other public charities, amounting
   in all to from L. 12 to L.20.
      Education.-There are two regular schools, exclusive of private
   teachers,-the parish school, and one in the Doll, which is support-
   ed by the Glasgow Auxiliary Gaelic School Society.  The ordinary
   braches of education are taught.  From the number and position
   of the population, the minister considers two additional schools De
   cessary,-one at Brora, and the other at Badinellan.  The pa-
   rocbial teacher has the maximum salary, and L. 2 Sterling in com.
   pensation for a garden.  The fees are very moderate and not well
   paid, seldom exceeding L12. His accommodation is comfortable,
   and on a sufficiently liberal scale.  Most of the rising generation
   attend school for some period of the year, and are so far in the way
   of receiving the benefits arising from a moral and religious educa-
   tion.  There is also a female school at Brora, endowed by the
   Duke of Sutherland, where girls are taught to sew, make their own
   dresses, and other needle-work.
       Library.- A circulating library was established, some years ago,
   among the families on the coast side, which is stillin active operation,
   and by means of which they have access to the newest publications
   for payment of a few shillings annually.
       Charitable Institutions.-There are no public charitable institute
   tions in this parish, nor have the poor the benefit of any charitable
   bequests; consequently, they are dependent for their subsistence
   on tbe generosity of the landlord-the liberality of their neigh-
   bours who are in better circumstances, and the pittance afforded
   them from the proceeds of thei parochial contributions.


