
  362                         PERTHSHIRE.

  In the course of the last year, also, it may not be improper to ob-
  serve, only two funerals of the parishioners entered the churchyard,
  -a sufficient proof of the salubrity of the clime, and of its congeni-
  ality to the human constitution.
    Topographical Appearances.-This parish, as might have been
  supposed from its situation, is possessed of considerable local
  beauty.  The shelving banks of its rivers, adorned in many places,
  with stately trees, or with shrubs and bushes,-the meandering of
  its mighty waters, often in serpentine mazes, along its flats and
  haughs-the movement of vessels of various descriptions, up and
  down their channels, at every flux and reflux of the tide, supply-
  ing the wants, and administering to the comforts of the inhabitants,
  who live in the neigbbourhood, are calculated to delight the eye,
  and to charm the imagination.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Land-owners.-There is no resident proprietor in the parish.
  The Earl of Wemyss and March, the principal heritor, resides at
  Gosford House, in the county of Haddington, and Mr Macgill of
  Kembach, the other heritor, resides at Kembach House, in the
  county of Fife.
    Antiquities.-This parish appears to have been well known in for-
  mer times.  It was among its woods and winding streams, we are in-
  formed, that Wallace, occasionally, was wont to skulk from the ma-
  lice of his enemies, while he was endeavouring to avenge the injuries
  of his country, and to deliver his countrymen from a foreign yoke.
    The nunnery of Elcho, the ruins of which are still visible, de-
  monstrates the skill and judgment of the priesthood in the dark
  ages, as well as the power and influence of which they were pos-
  sessed, who always selected, as might have been anticipated, the
  most eligible situations for erecting those edifices, where literary
  leisure, as well as piety and peace, might take up their abode, but
  which, from the folly and weakness of mankind, were often pervert-
  ed to other and very different purposes.
    The Castle of Elcho, situated on the banks of the Tay, at pre-
  sent also in a ruinous condition, must at one period have been a
  place of some notoriety.  Its walls are of considerable strength and
  thickness, and built of very hard and durable materials.  The
  battlement, on its summit, to which there is access by several
  winding stairs, which are still in good preservation, affords a varied
  and extensive prospect up and down the river in all directions.
  The present noble proprietor has, lately, much indeed to his ho-


