
    732				AYRSHIRE.

were written on the loss of his first wife: He died in the forty-
ninth year of his age, 31st July 1828.
	Among the eminent natives of the parish may be properly includ-
ed, James Gillies, Esq. M. D. long a successful medical practition.
er in Bath, and one of his Majesty's physicians for Scotland.  He
died in 1826-7: also the Rev. John Brown of Clerkhill, preacher,
author of Sermons and Prayers, posthumous works in two volumes,
not printed for publication, besides numerous manuscripts on theo.
logical and literary subjects;--he died in 1833, aged thirty-nine
years.  John Gilmour, son of James Gilmour of Clerkland, who
died in 1828, at the age of eighteen, was the author of a volume
of "Poetical Remains," printed after his death. +
        The people of this parish generally are intelligent, generous,
hospitable, and, upon the whole, of a religious character.
	Landowners.--The number of landowners, mostly resident, is
eighty-three.  They are as follows.  Those properties marked thus *
have been retaided by the same families without entail, and with
one exception, (Corsehill) to the same extent, since the year 1636
at least.

William Cuninghame, Esq. of Lainshaw
Alexander Kerr, Esq. of Robertland
C.S. M'Alister, Esq. of Kennox.
* Sir A. D. M. Cuninghame, Bart. of
 Corsehill, &c., N.
J. Dunlop, Esq. of Dunlop, now Sir James
Dunlop of Dunlop, Bart., N. heir to
Sir John
David Provan, Esq. of Lochridge
Andrew Brown, Esq. of Hillhouse
J. Donaldson, Esq. of Williamshaw, N.
General Sir J. S, Barnes of Kirkhill, N.
John Deans of Peacockbank
R. R. Glasgow, Esq. of Montgreenan, N.
W. Pollock, Esq., M. D., of Barnahill, N.
James Wilson of Chapelton
C. S. Buchanan. Esq. of Fairlie Crivoch,N.
Thomas Deans of Draffan, &c.
David and James Dalziel of Merryhill
Alexander Reid of Bollingshaiw
William Mackie of Meikie Corsehill, &c.
James S. Burns of Auchinharvie, N.
Mary Reid of Stacklawhill, N.
Andrew Gemmel of Rashelhouse, N.
John Alexander of Meikle Corsehill
Allan Pollock of Blacklaw. , N.
John Brown of Blacklaw

John Ferguson. Esq. of Whitelee, N.
 * Andrew Brown, Eaq. of Gabrochhill, N.
David Walker of Gateside, N.
Thomas Wallace of Blacklaw, Wester, N. *
Alexander Ferguson of Auchintiber
James Wylie of Auchintiber, N.
Alexander Wylie of Auchintiber, N.
J. W. and D. Currie of Linthree and
Overhill, N.
John Caskie, Esq. of Little Corsehill, N.
 * John Stewart, Esq. of Gabrochhill, N.
Alexander Kuox of Meikle Custstraw
James, John and Robert Lindsay of
Auchintiber
James Gilmour of Clerkland
Andrew Foulds of Clerkland, &c.
John Cheape, Esq. of Girgenti
John Freeland, Esq. of Corsehouse, N.
John Stevenson of Hairshaw
John Stevenson of Whitelee
Andrew Stevenson of Hairshaw, N.
Right Hon. the Earl of Glasgow, of
Crivochmill or Serogmill, N.
Arthur Alison of Hairshaw
Rev. W. Carswell of Meikie Corsehill, N.
Robert Mackie of Foggyhillock
A. Ferguson, Esq. M. D., of Fullwood

<FOOTNOTE> Among distinguished natives of the parish now living,. may be mentioned James
 Miller, now tenant in Wardhead, who was the maker of a reaping-machine on im-
 proved principles; David Craig of Craigton, the inventor of some improvements on
 the thrashihg machine; Alexander Reid of Bollingshaw, who received several pre-
 miums for the invention of various agricultural implements.


