
             UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.                   1161

the Library.  The stalls for the members of the church in the
quire are of beautifully carved black oak, and are surrounded by a
screen of the same material, which, in point of beauty and delicacy
of carving, far surpasses any similar remains in Scotland.  The
tomb of Bishop Elphinstone is in the middle of the chapel, and,
although once highly ornamented, is now covered with a slab of
black marble without inscription.
   In the Senatus meeting-room is a fine portrait by Jameson, of
Bishop Patrick Forbes; and in the Public Hall adjoining are
portraits of Bishops Dunbar, Elphinstone, Lesley, (of Ross), and
Scougall, also of Hector Boece, and of Henry Scougall, of George
Buchanan, and curious likenesses of many of the Stuart Kings.
   The College is rendered conspicuous at a distance, by its fine
square tower, surmounted by a beautiful imperial crown, which
again is surmounted bx a cross.  The effect of this belfry is re-
markably fine.  In its present form it is said to have been built
by Bishop Dunbar about 1530, the original tower or spire having
been blown down or damaged by a storm.  The old part of the
College to which this belongs is ornamented with the arms of
James IV., of several of the Bishops, and of some of the nobles.
The tower and crown are faced with freestone from Moray.
   It only now remains to mention, in addition to the eminent
Professors formerly named, those distinguished men who were
educated at King's College.  Among these may be named James
Cheyne, LL. D., who became Professor in Paris and Douay,
about 1570; John Erskine of Dun, who assisted in promoting the
Reformation in Scotland ; Sir George Mackenzie, King's Advo-
cate, 1674; Mr George Gordon of Haddo, Regent in the Col-
lege, afterwards President of the Court of Session, 1681, Chan-
cellor, 1682, and the first Earl of Aberdeen; Dr Thomas Bower, a
distinguished mathematician; the celebrated Dr Thomas Reid, first
Professor of Philosophy here, and afterwards in Glasgow; Lord
Monboddo; Robert Hall; Charles Burney, the celebrated Greek
scholar; the late Dr James Gregory of Edinburgh, author of the
"Conspectus Medicine Theoretice," and long Professor of the
Practice of Medicine ; he was son of Dr John Gregory, formerly
menthoned, and received part of his education at King's College,
before his father was invited to Edinburgh ; and lastly, the late Sir
James Mackintosh, M. P.; George, Earl Marischall, the founder


