
     of Kirkaldy.

   History of the Burgh.-It is probable that the local advan-
tages of vicinity to fuel, to land capable of producing grain,
and above all to the sea, so favourable to subsistence and so
necessary to commerce, brought men at first to settle at this
place.  It is not known, however, at what particular time
the town was built; nor are there any traces of its history be-
fore it became one of the regality burghs of the lordship of
Dunfermling.  It was mortified A. D. 1334, by David II. to

<FOOTNOTE>

alia, "to widen the roads to any breadth they shall think proper, not exceed-
"ing 40 feet; and for that purpose to pull down and demolish any house or
" building, as well within royal burghs as without the same; paying such da-
"mages to the owners or occupiers, as the fatal trustees shall judge reasonable."
These powers are complained of: 1st, As unprecedented and unknown in
the other counties: 2 d, As trenching on the chartered rights of royal burghs;
the internal government of which is, by charters ratified by parliament, vested
in their own proper magistrates: 3 d, As affecting the security of private pro-
perty, which is thus left, in certain circumstances, to be seized without the
consent of the owner, and without any other compensation to him, than
what the very persons who are to seize on it judge reasonable.  It is true, there
has an appeal on the value of the property to the Justices of the Peace in
their general sessions.  But as the Justices are trustees, and in point of in-
fluence, the principal trustees under the road act, the appeal is nearly from
are description to another description of the same persons.  If the public con-
venience at times require that the property of individuals should be sacrificed
to it; justice surely requires that those, whose property is affected, should be
fully indemnified, and that too in the way in which they are most likely to be
satisfied that the indemnification is adequate,-the verdict of a jury.
The consideration of the effect which the powers conveyed by the act allud-
ed to might, if exercised to their full extent, produce on Kirkaldy, has given
rise to these reflections Kirkaldy is properly but one long street, though which
the great county road at present passes.  As the greater part of this street is
under 40 feet broad, the trustees have it in their power, if they shall think pro-
per, to bring it to the full statutory breadth, at the expence of half a mile of
demolished houses; the owners of which would be obliged to rest satisfied with
what damages the trustees, or in the last resort, the justices, should think rea-
sonable.


