
			    ALFORD.                       507

   The general character of the Husbandry pursued.-The state
of the husbandry is, on the whole, highly satisfactory.  Per-
haps no example could be adduced, at any period, in any
other nation, of such a series of beneficial improvements being
introduced, in so short a space of time, by steadily progressive but
unobtrusive steps, and without any removal of the natives, as those
which have converted the ride and unproductive husbandry of
1796 into our present skilful and productive one.
   The improvements have consisted chiefly in the regular appli-
cation of lime, in sufficient quantity, as a manure;-the introduc-
tion of a dressed crop of turnips, and crops of artifichal grasses,
into a regular alternation with the crops of grain ;-the substitu-
tion of the two horse and two oxen plough, for that drawn by ten
oxen ;-of the thrashing-machitie for the flail; and of the scythe, in
harvest, for the sickle ;-and also the cultivation of early varieties
of oats, in place of the late kind, called common oats, formerly
alone cultivated.  Regarding some of these, it may not be improper
to give a few brief notices.
   It might have been deemed, in former times, a thing incredible,
that a great extent of land in the centre of Aberdeenshire, twenty-
seven miles from the nearest sea-port, should be all sufficiently
manured by lime, imported from Sunderland; yet this improve-
ment has been effected on nearly all the arable land of this pa-
rish ; and it is one on which so much of the increased productive-
ness of the present husbandry depends, that without it none else
would have been of material benefit.  The quantity of lime-shells,
applied to the imperial acre, is too imperial bushels, on the light
and dry land; and on the clayey damper soils a little more ; but
this quantity must not be exceeded, and- the lime must be equally
spread on the land with the utmost care ; as it is found, when used
in excess, to induce an utter sterility in respect of grain crops for
which there is no known practicable remedy.  For the same rea-
son, it must not be repeated in less than about twenty years, and
then in somewhat smaller quantity.  The lime, in the first in-
stance, was properly applied either to the dressed turnips or a
clean fallow.  In applying it for the second time, it has become
the practice to harrow it in with bear and grass seeds after turnips,
by which means it remains in the surface during the common
three years of grass.  The cost of 100 bushels lime-shells, at the
Aberdeen shore, is L.3, 4s. ; and of the carriage to Alford, L.2,
8s.  These rates were recently about one-fourth more.


