
     Statistical Account

ing the people in this neighbourhood, are carried to Dunse,
Kelso, etc., and a great part are carried to Edinburgh.  The
haddocks have almost deserted this coast for these 2 or 3 years,
but the cod and ling are more plentiful, and of better quality
than formerly.  The difference between the higher and low-
est tides, on this shore, is about 20 feet; and there are great
quantities of sea-weed, commonly called sea-ware, thrown
ashore here, the coarser part of which is carried off with
avidity, and applied as manure to the land near the shore.
The finer parts are manufactured into kelp, and produce from
30 to 40 tons yearly.  The greatest part of this finer fort,
grows upon the rocks situated between the high and low wa-
ter-marks, and is cut and manufactured into kelp only once
in 3 years.

   Town of Coldingham.-The town of Coldingham appears
to have been of very high antiquity; for the monastery was
one of the most ancient and flourishing on the east of Scot-
land, and previous to the consecration of the famous St. Cuth-
bert, the bishop of Lindisferne, i.e.  Holy Island, which was
performed in the Cathedral of York, in the year 685.  This
monastery, then a famous and stately edifice, was consumed
and burnt*.  The town of Coldingham stands in a snug dry

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is said (Sir D. Dalrymple's Annals, vol. I. p. 48.) to have been rebuilt
by King Edgar, in the year 1098, and that at its consecration to the Virgin, he
assisted in person, when it was constituted into a priory of Benedictines, to which
a colony of Monks from Durham were introduced; and that for several succeed-
ing generations, it continued to depend upon the convent of Durham; that
K. Edgar ordered a house to be built for himself, at a small distance from the
church (part of the walls of which house are still to be seen, and are called Ed-
gar's walls at this day); and besides this mansion-house, he bestowed on the
priory, the lands of Auld Cambus, Lumsden, Renton, Swinewood, Fairneyside,
the 2 Aytons, Prenderguest, and Grainsmouth, all places in the neighbourhood,


