
                               RICCARTON.                         611

in her ninetieth year, and another in her ninety-sixth; 2 fatuous; 2
insane; 1 blind; 1 deaf and dumb; 22 illegitimate children dur-
ing the last three years.
	The causes of the increase in the number of the population at
different periods are various. The increase which  took place be-
tween 1755 and 1792, arose from the great facilities and encou-
ragement given to feuing in the village. That occurring betwixt
1811 and 1831, may be attributed to a decreet of the Court of
Session, finding that the lands of Milrig and the village and lands
of Sornhill did not belong to Galston, but to this parish. And
that which has occurred since, may be assigned to the opening of
new coal pits, and the erection of brick-works on diffierent estates.
And in consequence of another large coal-work having just com-
menced, and an extensive cotton-printing establishments having
been erected in the immediate neighbourhood, as well as from a
new line of road having been lately opened, which offers a very fa-
vourable opportunity for building,--there is every prospect of a
rapid and large increase, especially in the village population.
	Habits and Character of the People.--The people are plain and
unaffected in their manners, industrious in their habits, and on
Sabbath and other holidays neatly and well-dressed; their ordi-
nary food simple, and when they are able to afford it, substantial.
We doubt much whether they enjoy many of the comforts of life,
especially those employed in manufactures, the wages earned being
at best but small, while the untoward fluctuations in trade often
expose them to much poverty.  The country population is, in-
deed, most respectable, the most of them being seemingily in easy
circumstance; they are steady and regular in their habits, atten-
tive to religious ordinance, intelligent and well-principled. I am
happy to bear testimony to the general good conduct of a very
large class of the inhabitants. I mean the colliers. There are
very many of them in comfortable circumstances--inhabiting their
own houses, bringing up their families respectably, and seemingly
surrounded with many comforts; many of them intelligent and
pious men, and several of them having family worship regularly in
their houses. Indeed, I may almost say with confidence, what can
be but seldom said of the same class of workmen, that they are
among the most orderly, industrious, and intelligence of our pa-
rishioners; and much of this is owing to the circumstances, that
most of them are natives of the place, and that the different coal-
proprietors are very careful in employing and encouraging only the
best behaved.


