
                           DUNBOG.                            215

receive in money L. 9, a house, a bit of garden-ground, milk and
meal, 9 bolls of potatoes, and their coals driven from the pit.
  Sheep and Cattle.--There is no particular species of sheep or
cattle reared in the parish. The tenants buy in sheep, in the
autumn, to put on the stubbles, and to feed off on turnip during the
winter and following spring. The sheep are generally Cheviots,
with a sprinkling of black-faced. This practice is universal, and
is now carried to a great extent. By the use of bone-dust, turnips
can now be raised, where previously cultivation was either very dif-
ficult or altogether impossible. But where turnips can be thus
raised, the eating them off with sheep thoroughly enriches the
soil, and secures invariably an abundant after-crop. The cattle
are very much mixed; so much, indeed, that it would be no easy
matter to say what breed predominates. For many years, the old
Falkland breed of cattle fell into general disrepute. Short-horns
were introduced; and in several instances, were and are still rais-
ed in high perfection. The opinion was, that they fattened more
easily than the native cattle, and at an earlier age, and therefore
were a profitable stock to the farmer. This opinion, however, is
beginning to be questioned. It is now thought by Many that the
old Fife breed have as many good qualities as the short-horns, and
are a much less hazardous stock. That they feed to as great a
weight as the short-horns after they are five years old is well
known; and eminent judges say, that, by proper attention and care,
they may be brought to fatten at as early an age. There is, how-
ever, great difficulty experienced in obtaining pure blood.
  The state of husbandry is very good, as good as any where in
Scotland. A six-shift rotation is pursued irv this neighbourhood,
viz. summer fallow or potatoes, wheat, green Crop, barley, grass, and
then oats. The great defect is the want of fences. The fields are
all open and unenclosed. This is a serious binderance in the way
of improvement. The land requires rest, for it has been over-
cropped; the farmer is most anxious to reap the advantages pro-
mised by sheep husbandry; but neither of these objects can be at-
tained until the land is properly enclosed.
  The leases universally extend to a period of nineteen years; and
under the system of farming which has prevailed up to the present
time, a term of such duration was equally convenient for the land-
lord, and tenant. But now that a great and decided improvement
in the mode of farming has taken place, and is increasing rapidly
in all the purely agricultural districts, it will expedient and


