
24                      PERTHSHIRE.


Boetius, Buchanan, and Sir David, Dalrymple.  Mr Henry Adam-
son, son of James Adamson Provost of Perth and brother
of Dr Adamson, Principal of the University of Edinburgh, wrote
a metrical history of it about the year 1620, which was published
after his death in the year 1638. It contains a faithful narrative
of many interesting facts, but it is intermingled with traditions
on which no reliance can be placed.
   For a considerable period after Boetius wrote his history, it was
a generally received opinion that Bertha and Perth were two dis-
tinct towns; that the former, having been destroyed by a land flood
of the rivers Tay and Almond in 1210, the latter was thereafter
built in a contiguous situation. In this he was implicitly followed by
Hollinshed, Buchanan, and other writers. Boetius had evidently
as his text-book the Scotichronicon of Fordun, which was written
1377, on which almost all the early history of the country is founded.
But in the Scotichronicon there is not a sentence which gives the
least authority to believe that Bertha was a town distinct from
Perth-that they were not one and the same; indeed, the contrary is
there distinctly taught. "Villam quoque quae olim dicebatur Ber-
tha, nunc quoque Perth, in Scotia aqua de Taya cum aqua de Al-
mond maxima ex parte pertransiit." Lib. viii. c. 72. Boetius wrote
in the year 1525-26. He was a native of Dundee. In conse-
quence of certain privileges, granted by the Scottish Kings to Perth,
but denied to Dundee, the inhabitants of the latter place were dis-
posed depreciate the former, and Boetius seems to have partaken
of this spirit, and thus to have fallen into a discreditable violation
of historical truth. But what brings complete discredit on his story
is the language used in many charters previous to 1210, referring
to certain localities in the town. It may be sufficient to refer to one
of them, which belonged to the Abbey of Scone, and is contained
in the old chartulary in the Advocates' Library of Edinburgh.*

<FOOTNOTE>"Charter of William the King to Henry Bald concerning a land in Perth.
  " William, by the grace of God, all good men of his whole realm,
clergy and laity, greeting. Know all who are or shall be, me to have given and
consigned, and by this my present charter to have confirmed, to Henry Bald, that
land in my burgh of Perth which James, the son of Simon and others, my Provost of
Perth, have delivered to him according to my precept: To wit, that land which is in
the front of the street which leads from the church of St John Baptist to the Castle of
Perth on the east side opposite to the house of Andrew, the son of Simon, (Illam
scilicet quae est in fronte vici illius qui tendit de ecclesia Sancti Johannis Baptisti
usque ad castellum de Pert ex orientali parte contra domum Andreae filii Simonis,)
To be held be him and his heirs, of me and my heirs in free and heritage freely,
peaceably, fully and honourably, rendering theme yearly to my Chamberlain oue
pound of pepper at the feast of Michael. Witnesses, Hugh, Chancellor; Philip
de Valoiner, my Chamberlain; Malcolm, son, of Earl Duncan; William de Hay;
Alexander Sheriff of Stirling; Roger de Mortimer; Philip de Lundin; at Perh 14th
day of April."


