
                        EARLSTON.                      21

Baillie, Esq. of Jerviswood; Dr James Home of Cowdenknows;
Captain Brown of Park; and James Home, Esq. of Carolside.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry in the pa-
rochial registers is the 30th September 1694. They are not vo-
luminous, but are regularly kept, though for some years past pa-
rents have not been so attentive as before to the registration of
births.
   Antiquities.-The only remains of antiquity are, part of one of
the walls of the tower or castle of Sir Thomas the Rhymer, the
pit, and tower, and trees of Cowdenknows, a stone inserted into
the front wall of the church, bearing the inscription "Auld Rhy-
mer's race lies in this place," and a stone taken from a grave, on
which is a figure bearing a near resemblance to a Maltese cross.
There existed some years ago, near the western extremity of the
village, an ancient thorn tree, on which the fortunes of the place.
according to the superstitious traditions of the older inhabitants,
were alleged to depend.
   Modern Buildings.-The venerable thorn, above alluded to, at
length yielded to the tempest, and near the spot where it had long
flourished, there now stands a handsome house, lately erected by a
gentleman of the Law, whose correct taste has thus given an orna-
ment to the town, and whose attention to the interests of the in-
habitants may well reconcile them to the loss of their ancient thorn.
The principal mansion-houses in the parish are Mellerstain, the
princely residence of Mr Baillie, the house of Cowdenknows,
whose adjoining scenery has been made classical by the beautiful
melody of "The Broom o' the Cowdenknows," and the house of
Carolside, which, from the stillness of the vale around it, and from
the hills which shelter it, and partly conceal it from the view, ap-
pears to the traveller a sweet and secure asylum from the toils
and trouble of the world.

                   <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
  The population at present is 1710, of which number there are in
the village of Earlston, 847; in Fans, 147; in Redpath, 114; in
Mellerstain, 202; and in the country, 400.

1. Number of families in the parish,                                              357
          of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                            136
                      chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,     141
          of other families,                                                       80
2. The average number of deaths,                                                   19
                      of marriages,                                                12
   The number of families of independent fortune does not exceed



