
1048                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

on the west, south, and east by ranges of the Grampians. The
arable part is formed into two divisions by the hill of Bellrory,
sloping eastward near to the Inver of the Tanner, which flows
through the south-east division, or what is generally known by the
name of Tannerside. The other division slopes from Bellrory in
a north-east direction towards the Fan. * About a mile east of the
Fan, on the right bank of the Dee, are the ruins of the old church
of Glentanner, with an enclosed burying-ground still around it;
which, having been thatched with heather, was known by the name
of the Black Chapel of the Moor. Previously to Glentanner's be-
ing united to Aboyne, it formed a separate chaplainry.  Aboyne,
which is mostly on the left bank of the Dee, was then united to
Tullich, with an intermediate chapel at Braeroddach equally dis-
tant from the churches of Aboyne and Tullich. At what period
Aboyne and Glentanner were formed into one parish, is unknown
to the writer; but, previously to 1763, there was a church at each,
in which the incumbent performed Divine service in the rotation
of two Sabbaths at Aboyne, and the third at Glentanner. That
part of Aboyne on the north or left bank of the Dee formed the
barony which, in the words of Gordon of Straloch, "titulos Ba-
ronis Paralamentarii dat Marchionis Huntlaei filiorum uni." Its
burgh, called Charlestown, (formerly Bunty,) stands near Aboyne
Castle. The tolbooth was demolished about fifty years ago; and
all traces of the pot and gallows also are nearly effaced.
         Climate.-The banks of the Dee and braes of Marr have long
been celebrated as favourable to health, and although so far inland
as Aboyne, (the parish being between the twenty-fourth and
thirty-seventh mile-stones from Aberdeen,) heavy falls of snow in
winter, accompanied with intense frost, do often occur, yet the ge-
neral salubrity of the air is not destroyed by those sudden alterna-
tions of heat and cold which are frequent in localities nearer the
coast, and more under the influence of the sea breeze. The dry
and sandy soil of Strathdee, the shelter of its close and numerous
woods, and the reflection of the sun's rays from the mountains
which tower on either side, all combine to raise the temperature,
and render the climate remarkably genial. Hence many stran-
gers resort in summmer to this district, for the recovery or invigora-
tion of their health, by breathing the salubrious air, and drinking


<FOOTNOTE>Fan-"a descent." The river here, in a confined channel, passes with great
impetuosity over a ledge of rocks.


