
            MOY AND DALARROSSIE.                                99

close to this place, is also a green spot called Uai .qh an duine-
bheo, " the living man's grave," with which the following tradition
is connected: A dispute having arisen concerning their marches,
between the Laird of Mackintosh and Dunmaglass, the latter
offered to find a man who would declare upon oath that the spot
indicated by him was the exact mareb, with the condition, that
if found to swear falsely, be was to be buried alive. The man
was brought forward to the spot, swore by the head under his
bonnet and the earth under his feet, that he stood on Dunma-
glass's land. On being examined, however, it was found, that he
had filled his shoes partly with soil from theacknowledged property
of Dunmaglass, and that he had a cock's head in his bonnet,
probably that be might save his own, and that he might not be
considered perjured for swearing by the head of a cock. He was,
however, found guilty, and paid the penalty of his temerity by be-
ing buried alive.
Meteorology.-From the elevation of this district above the level
of the sea, (about 800 feet at an aver,,Age,) and the number of high
hills which surround it, the temperature is very cold. In summer,
the average height of the thermometer is about 680 Fahrenheit in
the shade; but often it is much higher. In winter, it is remarkable
as being perhaps the coldest district in Scotland. There are of-
ten great falls of snow, when at Inverness, which is only twelve miles
distant, the plough may, be seen at work. Indeed, for some years
before the winter of 1834, the frost has been so severe, that Loch
Moy has been frozen over for two months; and in March 1833 the
ice was so firm, that a gentleman drove a tandem round the island
which is in the middle of it. Funerals also often cross the Find-
horn on the ice. The Aurora Borealis is very common, and some-
times vies in brilliancy with the description given by Captain Parry
of its appearance on the coast of North America. In autumn
1833, it was visible every clear night for two months; and some-
times, the prismathc colours are as distinct as if formed by a prism.
This strath is very subject to high winds, which come down
sometimes in fearful eddies through the glen, unroofing bouses
and tearing up trees. The prevailing winds are the westerly and
the south-easterly, the former blowing during part of the summer,
the whole of autumn, and part of the winter months the latter,
generally during the remaining months, especially those of March,
a manner, that Loudon thought there was a great body of men opposed to him; on
which he immediately fell back upon Inverness.

