
540                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

thing of importance, unless the share its people bad in the Rebel-
lions of 1715 and 1745 deserves a passing notice.  Although
Strathdon lies in the country of the Forbeses,-a family which the-
Scottish Jacobites styled one of the most rebellious in Scotland-
like most of the Highland, it was deeply involved in the troubles
of the times.
   There is no traditionary legend to countenance the supposition
that the people were devotedly attached to the Pretender's cause.
On the contrary, the remarkable letter * from the Earl of Mar,
who was superior of the whole parish, to "Jock of Inverernan,"
would rather prove that it was the tyranny of feudal despotism
which forced them to join the insurgent's ranks.  Mar angrily
complains; " It's a pretty thing when all the Highlands of Scot-
land are rising upon their King and country's account, that my
men should only be refractory ;" plainly intimates to his vassal
that " he was in the right not to come with the hundred men he
sent, when he (Mar) expected four times the number," and sends
a message to his tenants, " that if they come not forth with their
best arms, lie will send a party immediately to burn what they
will miss taking from them," adding, " they may believe this is not
only a threat, but, by all that's sacred, I will put it in execution."
   The aversion of the people to engage in the cause is further.
corroborated by the proceedings of the presbytery of Alford against
the Episcopal ministers.  The libel against Mr John Alexander,
Episcopal Minister of Kildrummy, commences-" his praying pub-
licly in Braemar for success to the Pretender his arms when the
standard was displayed there," &c.  He protested against seven
of the witnesses, " in respect they are habit and repute as of the
number of those rebellious accomplices that were with the late
Earl of Mar in arms at Braemar; and, therefore, till they be
purged of the said scandall, cannot be sustained as habiles testes."
" Upon which Maister Thaine, in the name of the presbytery, re-
protested, that the former objection and protestation was ground-
less, and no regard should be had thereto; because, though these
persons might have been at Braemar with the late Earl of Mar,
yet it does not follow that they were of the number of his rebel-
lious accomplices, because it is nottour in the country side that
many of the poor countrey people were only brought thither upon
pretence of hunting, and when they were there were pressed to

<FOOTNOTE>The original manuscript is still in the possession of the Invernan family.  It
has more than once appeared in print, and need not be repeated here.
                                           4


