
              PARISH OF STRATH.
    PRESBYTERY OF SKYE, SYNOD OF GLENELG.
     THE REV. JOHN MACKINNON, MINISTER.

     L.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HiSTORY.
Name-THIS parish is known by the names of Srath Mhic
Jonmhuinn, or Mackinnon's valley, and of Strath-Swordale, from
the Gaelic word Srath, signifying a valley through which a river
runs, and Swordale, a place situated in the centre of the parish.
But, for the sake of brevity, it is always called Strath.
Extent and Boundaries.-The extreme length of the parish may
be estimated at about 26 miles, and its mean breadth at about 6
miles. It is bounded on the north, by the parish of Portree; on
the south, by the parish of Sleat; on the east, by the sea, which
divides it from the mainland of Applecross and Loebalsh; and on
the west, by the parish of Bracadale.
Topographical Appearances.-To the admirer of nature, this pa-
risb presents objects of no ordinary interest.  On its western boun-
dary is situated a landscape of unparalleled grandeur.  No place,
perhaps, affords more picturesque subjects for the painter than parts
of this parish. In it. he meets with such prodigality of natural won-
ders, that he must feel as if bewildered, and at a loss to make a choice.
The scenery shifts at every step, and each successive view seems
to excel the rest. The cloud -capped Cuillin raises its inacces-
sible pinnacles beyond the other mountains, and is visible in almost
every part of the island. Next in order Marsco, Blath-Bheinn
and Beilig shoot themselves forth in every variety of fantastic
figure and appearance, each struggling for supremacy with its
neighbour, and each possessing every imaginable characteristic of
native rudeness and grandeur.  On entering the Bay of Scavaig,
the spectator is struck with the rugged outline presented by the
spiry and serrated peaks of the lofty Cuillin.  On landing, he finds
himself surrounded by rocks denuded of every vestige of vegeta-
tion. As he advances a valley, enclosed by mountains of the most
precipitous character, opens to the vhew, thus encircling and form-


