
                                           BOHARM.                      381

           years and bad crops, and an increased disposition for emigration
           to the colonies.
              2. Notwithstanding the unfavourable character of the seasons
           of late, the progress of agricultural improvement has been steadily
           going on. Furrow or frequent draining has been introduced, in
           a few instances, with most beneficial effects. Bone manure, not-
           withstanding its greatly increased price, is in almost universal use
           for turnips, greatly enlarging the production of this useful article.
           It is now very often applied along with a small quantity of dung.
           On the Seafield estate, many of the improvements in contempla-
           tion at the date of the report bave been executed, and more are
           in progress. The farms have been properly arranged and subdi-
           vided, and some of them substantially enclosed. Several useful
           roads have been made. Drainage has been carried on on a very
           extensive plan, and with most beneficial effects; and many plan-
           tations have been made, which will soon afford both shelter and
           ornament to the district.
              3. The reporter's plan for supplying the wants of aged females,
           by the medium of their own industry, has lately failed ; not from
           any want of funds, but from the impossibility of procuring the
           materials of industry, there being no such thini now as flax given
           out for hand-spinning in this part of the country. This class of
           our poor population are perhaps the most destitute of all, now
           that the domestic manufactures, which used to sustain them, are
           so much superseded; and their case, for some suitable provision,
           is strongly recommended to the consideration of the charitable.
              4. The incommodiousness of the manse has been wholly reme-
           died by a considerable addition, and a small change of internal
           arrangements, most handsomely granted last year by the heritors
           as a personal favour to the present incumbent, for which be is
           happy to have this public opportunity of recording his thanks.
              5. The deficient bridge, on the Boharm road, has been replaced
           by the Earl of Seafield, and, instead of a temporary wooden bridge
           over the Fiddich, a very handsome structure of stone has been
           erected at an expense of L.450, supplied by the liberality of the
           gentlemen in the neigbbourhood. It was opened in the end of
           last year. The road has also received some slight repairs, and is
           kept passable by the several gentlemen through whose properties
           it extends, but it is still in a very bad state, demanding a thorough
           repair, so as to permit tolls again to be raised for its support.
              June 16, 1842.


