
               ST ANDREWS.                                493

which the limits prescribed to this article render it necessary for
the writer to omit.
     Literature.-A parochial library was established in St Andrews
a few years ago. The publications which have been, introduced
into it, are almost exclusively of a religious character. The num-
ber of the volumes now amounts to 260; and one shilling a-year
only is exacted from those who avail themselves of the advantages
which it affords. About fifteen years ago, a number of the gentle-
men residing in the city and neighbourhood entered into an asso-
ciation for the purpose of establishing a library which might em-
brace the most popular productions connected with general litera-
ture. They have now a library of considerable value, compre-
hending nearly 1200 volumes, and which is annually on the in-
crease. The books are given out to subscribers only, who pay an
annual subscription of 8s., and who are at present about 100 in
number. A Mechanics Library was established some years
ago, and it seemed at first to meet with considerable encourage-
ment, but of late it has not prospered. No school of arts, nor any
scientific, literary, or antiquarian society, has been established
within the parish, the society being too limited for affording the
necessary support, for any considerable length of time, to such in-
stitutions.
     Charitable and other Institutions,-A few years ago, several
friendly societies existed in the city, but they have one by one been
abandoned. The appeared, while they were in operation, to be
highly beneficial in their tendency, and to be conducive to the
formation of industrious habits. They were evidently founded,
however, on erroneous calculations, and held out much more
flattering promises of advantage to the contributors than they
were able to realize. It is to be apprehended also that where
they engaged to afford a weekly allowance to a contributor when
he was in distress, and when he was unable to attend to his ordi-
nary duties, there were individuals who occasionally counterfeited
sickness, or who continued much longer on the sick list than was
just and equitable, that they might receive the stipulated allow-
ance. The detection of a few cases of this description, combined
with the necessity which existed of remodelling the whole plan
of their arrangements, so as to enable the managers to fulfil their
engagements, has had the tendency to render them unpopular,
and to lead to their dissolution. This is much to be lamented,


