

656                        PERTHSHIRE

work.  The number of ploughs in the parish is 121, and of carts,
221.  Of four-wheeled carriages, there are 10, and of gigs 4.
     Live Stock.- The common breed of cattle is the Highland, and
of sheep the black-faced.  Of late, a number of other varieties has
been introduced.  The pure Ayr and Angus-shire breed of cattle
are reared by some of thd gentlemen. A cross between the Ayrshire
sow and the Highland bull is a common description.  Of late years,
also, great attention is paid to the improvement of horses, by cros-
sing the native breed, which is Highland, with the Clydesdale
horse.  A few Leicester sheep may be seen as followerr of the
milch cows.
     Husbandry.- The system of agriculture pursued is far from uni-
from.  The mode in general application is that of the four years
sotation, being successively 1. oats, 2. green crop, 3. barley,
4. bay.  A few of the farmers are beginning to adopt the five-
shift course.  Bone manure is extensively used, and the turnips
so raised are generally eat off by sheep.  Great attention has
been paid of late to the kind and quality of seed-corn. *  The
Hopetoun oat and the Chevalier barley were at one time like to
have superseded all others, but little of either is now used.  The
early Exxex has supplanted the Hopetoun oat, and the Dunlop
barley has taken the place fo the Chevalier, which is found to units
earliness with a very fine quality of seed are the potato oat; the
Cliester and the common English barley.  The potato planted
use ebisefly the perthshire "reds," a few of the Glasgow "buffs,"
and of the Aherdeen "blue-coats," ant hte various kind of "yama."
Till 1896, we had nothing like a failure in our potato crop.  In
that year where appeared a few blanks in several fields.  The
caus assigned were extremely various, but ion no one case satis-
factory.  The turnips are, the "red and white globe," the "green-
bug yellow," and a few "Swedish."  Tares are getting common
There is very little lint now sows, except what is intesded for fa-
mily purpose.
     Empire.-- The general duration of lenses in eleven and fifteen year.
If would, doubtless, he advantageous both to proprietor and tenant

<FOOTNOTE>As the general corporation for greds and potato which tool place at Piclochy
as the dish of skip promth, the promlums were adjudged is the following samples;-
    Berly--- qualiyt weighed 80 peimb per brushed; 2 dico 561/2 dcto; 4 dp. 541/2
40; 4 de;
    Oats-- I quality weighed 454 pounds per bushel, 2 ditto 45/12 ditto; 3do. 451/2 dc.
    Boss-- I quality weighed 541/2 pounds per bushel; 2 ditto 531/2 ditto


