
     of North Knapdale.

imagine; and the pastures produce the best cattle that appear in
the English markets from the Highlands.  The mode of ma-
nagement is extremely faulty.  That part of the land, which
is still in the hands of the farmers, is ploughed up every year:
it is out of heart, and produces no adequate returns.  The
land, though of excellent soil, is poor; of course the tenant
is poor also.  The pasture grounds are always overstocked with
cattle.  No argument or intreaty will induce the tenants to re-
strict the pasture to the numbers which would thrive properly.
At the most moderate calculation, one-third of the cattle should
be reduced.-In the next place, no attention is paid to the
kind of bulls; provided there be a bull, the kind is little mind-
ed.  This is a capital error; for the most luxuriant pasture will
not produce good cattle without attending to the breed.  It is
not hereby meant that a strange breed should be introduced;
this would by no means answer as to any species of cattle
whatever: the idea is, to take the best that can be found in
the country*.
   The principal cause of bad management, as to farming, seems
to be the following:-the generality of farms are possessed by

<FOOTNOTE>

*Much industry and expence has been incured in introducing a breed
of larger sheep to this part of the country.  There cannot be a more capital
mistake; the natives of the soil, of whatever species, answer best.-The
true highland sheep, if the experiment was fanly tried, would produce finer
wool, and more delicate flesh; the native wool now sells at 2 s. a stone more
than the Galloway wool, but it is contended, that the country breed does
not arrive at such a size, or to such a weight of flesh.  The fact is admitted;
but let one pasture native sheep in place of the foreign breed, and balance the
account of profit and loss, as follows: Native sheep are not so liable to braxy
and other maladics as the foreign; the wool is of superior quality; the flesh,
is of superior delicacy; and upon the same pasture that 8 foreign sheep re-
quire, 19 of the native breed may be fed: the argument here is unanswera-
ble.-Besides no experiment has yet been tried to what size the na-
tive sheep could be brought.


