
                        BALMACLELLAN.                          99

mant, and no individual of the name has possessed land in the pa-
rish for more than a hundred years.
        Extent, Figure, &c.-The parish is of an oblong figure, and
bounded almost entirely by streams and rivers. From the Ken,
on the west, it stretches to the river Urr, which, flowing from a
loch of the same name, forms its eastern boundary for several
miles. The Craig and Crogo rivulets, rising from the same range
of hills, run in opposite directions, and separate it from the parish
of Parton, on the south; while on the north, the Garple and an-
other smaller stream separate it from Dairy and Glencairn. The
whole superficies is estimated in the county map at 37 square
miles. It is the smallest parish in the district.
        Topographical Appearances, &c.-Along the banks of the Ken
a series ot drums stretches towards the interior for two or three
miles. The country then assumes a wilder and more rugged as-
pect. Moors, morasses, and hills of considerable height appear,
interspersed with a few cultivated fields. Eastward, the land has
been radidly emerging from its originally barren and uninteresting
condition. There still, however, remain extensive, plains of moss,
possessing all the sterility of the desert, and apparently incapable
of the least improvement.
        Meteorology.-The climate is upon the whole damp and the
heights swampy. As drainage is scarcely known or imperfectly
practised, water continues long on the hills. No epidemic pre-
vails: rheumatism is common; and perhaps more people die of pul-
monary complaints than of any other.
        Hydrogrophy.-The lakes or lochs in Balmaclellan are nume-
rous. They are principally situated among the upland heights,
but are far inferior in beauty to Loch Ken. This noble sheet of
water sweeps the western boundary of the parish, and presents to
the eye an agreeable variety of bay, promontory, and wooded isle.
The river that supplies this splendid loch frequently overflows
its banks till the whole valley assumes the appearance of an inland
sea. The most destructive of these periodical inundations occurs
in the beginning of August or end of July, and is known in
the country by the name of the Lammas Speat. Of the innume-
rable tributaries that tend to this immense increase of waters, the
Garple is deserving of notice. In some parts, it flows through a
narrow and rugged channel, while on either side rise lofty preci-
pices wooded to their summit. Its progress is marked by a few
waterfalls. The most picturesque of these is the Holy Linn, a


