
	                              FORGAN.                         511

	deeply the interests of those concerned should have been determin-
	ed not according to the merits of the particular mode of fishing,
	(as was distinctly admitted both in the Court of Session and in
	the House of Lords,) but according to the construction put upon
	certain statutory words in the interpretation of the ancient laws
	regarding fisheries. In these circumstances, it is remarkable, that
	hitherto no united efforts have been made by the proprietors along
	the estuary of the Tay, (in conjunction with others similarly situ-
	ated,) to bring their case in reference to their fisheries before the
	Legislature, and so to have it ascertained-not what was the law
	at a remote period, when the subject vas little attended to, and
	but imperfectly understood, but what ought to be the law for carry-
	ing on these fisheries in a way that would at once secure the rights
	of private parties, and confer the largest amount of benefit on the
	public. From the evidence that was given before a Committee of
	the House of Commons, in the years 1824 and 1825, it appears
	that chiefly in the months of August, September, and October,
	the salmon ascend the frith for the purpose of spawning in the
	river, and that they keep the deep water of the mid channel as
	they pass through the estuary. They descend in the months of
	February, March, and April, when the keats or spent fish with
	the fry keep in deep water; the clean fish roaming at large through-
	out the shallow and deep water.
              The salmon that are caught are either sent to Dundee, or pack-
	ed in ice, and exported by the Dundee steam ships to the London'
	market.
              It may be remarked, that; about thirty years ago, a large shoal
	of herrings made its appearance, in the winter season, opposite to
	Newport, which employed a number of boats and other vessels
	during its continuance; but there has not been any shoal known
	in the Tay since that time.
              Produce.-The average yearly value of raw produce raised in
         the parish after deduction for seed, &c. is nearly as follows:

         <TABLE>

                    Produce of grain,                  L. 10,360
                    Potatoes and turnips,                  3,900
                    Hay,                                     630
                    Pasture,                               1,250
                    Thinning and felling of woods,           200
                    Fisheries,                               150
                                                       ---------
                                                       L. 16,490

              Manufactures.-There is some weaving in the parish, chiefly
	of the fabric suited to the Duadee manufacture of coarse linen,
	&c. The number of individuals thus employed does not exceed 20.


