
		   	     ALFORD.                               505

in the parish; and there are trees to a great value of these spe-
cies now ready for use, especially round-Haugbton.  The chief of
them, in the order in which they are observed to grow most rapidly
here, may be thus enumerated;-beech, elm (Ulmes montana of
Hooker's Flora Scotica), ash, which is the most valuable, gean-
tree (Prunus cerasus), lime, Scotch plane, mountain-ash (Pyrus,
aucuparia), birch, quaking-ash (Populus tremula), aller, and white-
beam tree ( Pyrus aria).
   In addition to these, there are a very few black poplars, and, wil-
lows, as Solix alba, S. decipiens, S. lanceolata.  These last prosper
well, and might deserve to be more cultivated.  There are also a
few trees of the Cytisus laburnum, which become valuable for
household furniture.
   There has been planted in the parish also a very considerable
number of oaks (Quercus robur), and the largest plantation ap-
pears to be now ninety-two years old; but the result does not seem
to warrant the extension of plantations of that species, as the trees
are much inferior in value to ashes and elms planted at the same time,
under equal circumstances.  This relative failure of the oak might
appear surprising, when it is considered, that many remains of oak,
trees, yet occasionally dug from under the soil, prove it was once
a common native.  But it has been ascertained by the examination
of an old native copse of oak at some distance from this parish,
that the native species is not the Robur but the Sessiliflora; and
as that is said to yield only wood of inferior quality, it would not
seem expedient to plant it with a view to the value of the wood,
however it might be profitable for the bark.
   Rent.-The valued rent of the parish is L.3126, 12s, 8d. Scots
money.  The present gross rent is very evenly L.4,000 Sterling;
giving, after making an allowance, of a small rent for the unculti-
vated land, nearly 16s. rent per imperial acre of arable land. The
rent of grazing and rate of pasturing animals by the year cannot
be stated.
Rate of Labour and Mechanical Work.-Fees, besides provi-
sions and lodgings, by the year:  a good ploughman, L.13; a boy,
L.4 to L.7; a female servant, L.5.. For the harvest-work only ;
a good scythesman, L.2, 15s.; a woman, L.1, 15s. Wages with-
out provisions or lodgings by the day; a labourer, 2s. in summer,
and 1s. 4d. in winter; a mason, 2s. 10d.; a carpenter, 2s. 3d.; a
tailor, 2s.  With provisions, and without lodgings, a female to hoe
turnips, 8d. By the rood of thirty-six square yards, a stone and


