
                        ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                         247

	Sheriffmuir.  It is said that although the draining was not then
	thorugbly accomplished, yet it was so to such an extent, that a con-
	siderable quantity of water escaped.  The proprietor set about
	redraining this loch about the year 1763, and succeeded; but, from
	neglect in keeping the trenches in proper repair, it was allowed
	again to fill.  The work was commenced anew in 1824, by the
	late Right Honourable Lord Macdonald, and after a period of
	five years, during which time a great number of labourers, were
	employed, the lake was converted into arable land.
          Geology and Mineralogy.-Some mineralogists who have visited
	this and the adjacent parishes, have justly pronounced them to be
	store-houses of geology, in which several of the more rare minerals
	have been found.
	  The hills abound with moss, which is also met with in many
	parts of the low grounds.  The remains of various kinds of wood
	are very prevalent in the black solid moss.  Roots, bark, and
	branches are found in some parts in great quantities, while in other
	parts solid trunks of trees are met with, some of which are much
	decayed.  In almost every peat-bog, quantities of hazel-nuts have
	been dug up, and even the leaves of that wood have been seen in
	a state of wonderful preservation.  The soil in general is of a glu-
	tinous, clayey description, interspersed in low situations by tracks
	of alluvial earth.  Even in places where the surface is a light dark
	mould, the subsoil, by digging some feet, is found to be a stiff al-
	luvial clay.  In some parts the soil consists chiefly of decomposed
	trap-rock, and other substances, which have undergone changes,
	by the action of the elements.  In the localities where the deep
	heavy clay predominates, the soil speedily hardens in dry weather
	to such a degree, that the operations of agriculture are with diffi-
	culty performed, while in wet weather it softens so much as to
	cause similar inconvenience.
	  The general aspect of the shores is bold, wild, and rocky.  The
	whole range from the south-east boundary of the parish to the bay
	of Altivaig, presents an uninterrupted front of columnar precipices
	of basalt.  In some parts, the monotony of the scene is relieved
	by lofty, isolated cliffs, jutting forth in fantastic forms, while in
	others, horizontal, walls, rising above each other in successive gra-
	dations, shoot across the perpendicular rocks.  Natural arches,
	vertical chasms, and dark, gloomy caverns, are found in several
	localities. Some of the hilis slope gradually on the one side from
	their summits to their bases, while on the other they suddenly


