

      42                        SHETLAND.

      the toil that people of their class are doomed to undergo, in more
      genial clinies.
         The inhabitants of Unst are remarked for being naturally a
      shrewd observing people, acute and discerning; and although they
      have not, until lately, had the advantage of schools, which highly-
      favoured Scotland has long enjoyed, yet many of them are well in-
      formed, can read well, and write an excellent hand, and keep ac-
      counts; and, in respect of general knowledge, they may compete with
      those who have had superior opportunities.  Their moral and re-
      ligious character is far from being so high as it could be wished
      to be.  They are just what people generally are in the same
      circumstances,-some good, some bad; but, in general, they ap-
      pear to have a thirst for religious knowledge; and it is hoped, there
      are many amongst them who truly fear God.
         Smuggling was for a long time carried on in this place to
      a great extent, and was no doubt attended by the evils which
      naturally accompany that illegal traffic.  It has scarcely been
      heard of, for these last twenty years.

                               IV.-INDUSTRY.
         Agriculture.-There are about 2000 imperial acres of arable land
      in the parish, most part of it yearly under crop.  Nearly an equal
      quantity of meadow and grass land, connected with the arable,
      remains uncultivated.  The meadows produce a considerable
      quantity of good natural hay; and on the grass grounds, milch
      cows are pastured during the summer.  The whole of the mea-
      dow and grass ground might be broken up, and with proper ma-
      nagement, converted into good corn land, and much of it bad,
      within these few years past, been cultivated, and made to produce
      very tolerable crops, by some of the more industrious tenantry.
      But the greater part of the farmers being also fishermen, little at-
      tention comparatively is paid to agriculture.  Indeed, the pursuits
      of fishing and farming seem to be incompatible with one another,
      in the same persons.  The soil is, in many places, excellent.  Un-
      der a better climate and more skilful management, it would yield
      the best of crops; and even with all the disadvantages of climate,
      and the slovenly manner in which it is cultivated, it yields heavy
      crops of black oats, bear, and potatoes; the latter not inferior to
      those produced in the best districts of Scotland.  Some gentlemen

      <FOOTNOTES>Since this Account was drawn up, the circumstances of the people have been sad-
      ly altered.  A general Wlure of the crops, for five or six years in succession, has re-
      duced them to poverty, and it must be long, even under the most favourable
      circumstances, before they can regain their former state.



