
	72                     CAITHNESS-SHISE.

         easily solved. Some say that the former was inhabited by a suc-
	cession of the Bishops of Caithness and Sutherland, and that the
	latter, so far as it was finished, was the work of one of these bi-
	shops. The nnly foundation for this lame tradition is a story, quite
	a true one, that one of the bishops who occupied the see was
        burnt by some lawless miscreaots in his castle of Halkisk. There
        is no reason for confounding Halkirk with Brawl, as they are on
	opposite sides of the river. The place where the horrid deed was
	perpetrated was a residence which the bishops had on the Hal-
	kirk baok of the riwer, opposite the Castle of Brawl. There is
	oo vestige of a ruin to point out where the bishop's residence
	stood. It is probable, however, it was in a field to the north-east
	of the present maose, whese the parochial ministers had their re-
	sidence till the present house was built. The total removal of
	every stone of this buildiog has obliterated the memory of its ex-
	istence. This has been the means of ascribing to the bishops the
	ruins which remain; it has been the means of placiog them in a
	tower over which they never bad aoy control; and of fatheriog
	on their invention and power a project which never owed its form
	or its existence either to their wealth or to their contriwance. The
	more probable opioion is, that the Castle of Brawl was a resideoce
	of the Harolds and Sinclairs, who were Earls of Caithness, the
	former at a very early period, and the latter ever since the Ha-
	rolds lost the title. At Brawl there is an extensive garden, by
	far the most ancient in the county, belonging to the family of Ulb-
	ster, which, notwithstanding its northern latitude, and its being ra-
	ther neglected, produces considerable quantities of fruit, and in
	and around it stand chestnut, ash, and elm trees, of good size
	both in height and circumference.
	   There was also a castle on the rugged crag of Dirlot, said to
	have been inhabited by a bold and daring freebooter of the name
	of Sutherland a near relation of the Dunrobin Sutherlands, whose
	lands of Dylrid and Cattak were forfeited for treason, and given
	to M'Kay of Strathnaver by charter, dated at Inverness, 4th
	November 1489. The rock of Dirlot is said to have been sur-
	rounded at one time by the river, and accessible only by a draw-
	bridge. The nature of the ground gives some countenance to
	this tradition; but now the river flows entirely on one side of the
	crag, on whom summit the gray remains of the castle are to be
	seen. There was also a place of defence, and of no small, im-
	portance, at the north corner of Lochmore, where the river issues


