
126                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Husbandry.-Thirty years ago there were several flocks of sheep
in the parish, although there are now only a few kept by private
families for home consumption.  This change is to be attributed
partly to the extent of land which has of late years been reclaimed
from waste and pasture, and partly to the multiplication of planta-
tions and enclosures.  It is the general opinion, that the old
Aberdeenshire breed of cattle is best adapted for a greater pro-
portion of the soils in this parish.  Some have occasionally tried
the short-horned, but it seems now universally admitted that these
can only be profitable on land of superior qu`lhty, and in a high
state of cultivation.  From a fashion of crossing these breeds,
which now extensively prevails, there is some reason to dread that
the pure Aberdeenshire will gradually diminish, or even may
wholly disappear.  Should this really occur, it is the opinion of
some superior judges, that (considering the quality of a large pro-
portion of the soil) a most serious blow would be given to the pros-
perity of agriculture in this county.  It appears, at any rate, a
subject worthy the attention of land-owners and agricultural asso-
ciations, were it only from the great respectability and skill of the
individuals with whom, in this district, the above opinion is under-
stood to have originated.
   The usual system of cropping is by a rotation of five, six, and
seven years, viz. for a five-shift, grain after lea; turnips;\f* bear
and sometimes oats laid down with clover and rye grass; hay or
pasture; pasture.  For a six years shift, the same, with an addi-
tional year of pasture.  For a seven years shift, two grain crops
before turnips; in other respects the same as the former.  The
greater proportion of land in this parish is best adapted for a rota-
tion of six years instead of five, (which is by far the most common
system,) although the farmers, in general, cannot afford, under
the present depressed prices, to sacrifhcd a direct and immediate
profit for the sake of a probable ultimate advantage.
   Leases.-The usual duration of leases is nineteen years.  On an
improving farm, however, this term is by much too short.  The
tenant can have no sufficient time to recover his capital and the in-
terest sunk upon it, still less to gain a fair remuneration for his

<FOOTNOTE>It is a singular fact that turnips are, every rotation, diminisbing in size on rich
old infield land, scarcely equalling those raised on land newly reclaimed.  Turnips
raised on land long cultivated have also, since 1819, been frequently visited by mil-
dew in this county, although (notwithstanding that the leaves all wither and fall
off) without any appearance of an evil result.  The writer takes this opportunity of
acknowledging the able assistance of his parishioner, Mr Hervey of Bedlieston, in
drawing up these statistics of Husbandry.
                                 3


