
                                 ALVAH.                              149

       report upon this head has been attended with more difficulty than
       was at first anticipated.  Enough, however, has been seen to af-
       ford sufficient evidence of the structure and superposition of the
       solid strata.
          The direction of the strata is from north-east to south-west, or
       perhaps, where the strata have been more than usually deranged
       varying a point or two nearer the south on the one hand, and the
       north on the other; and the dip is to the north-west and south-
       east at right angles to the direction.  The eastern side of the pa-
       rish is watered by the river Doveran, the banks of which, and the
       lower grounds, are a deep alluvial loam, resting on a bed of blue
       clay, intermixed with clay-slate, in broken fragments and in a state
       of dissolution.  Indeed, it appears to me, that the bed of blue
       clay on which the alluvial and vegetable soils rest, is almost whol-
       ly a formation arising from the disintegration and dissolution of
       the clay-slate on which they are reposing.  The vegetable soil on
       the lower grounds of the other parts of the parish is also reposing
       on a bed of diluvial coarse clay, and occasionally intermixed with
       thin veins or beds of ferruginous sand, shingle, and water-worn
       boulders ; and on the higher grounds, around the hills of Tipper-
       ty, Alvah, &c. the soil reposes on beds of sand and shingle, inter-
       mixed with fragments of greywacke slate, &c.  These are resting,
       throughout the whole parish, on a bed of clay-slate, which again
       is resting on a bed of greywacke, and on which the clay-slate lies
       in a conformable position and in its lower strata following the
       windings of that mineral, with which, at their junction, the gre -
       wacke passes into greywacke slate, and for some distance alter-
       liates with the clay-slate.  The greywacke is intersected with
       thin veins of quartz, the greatest thickness of which may be about
       four or five inches.  These veins ramify through the mass, dimi-
       nishing in size till they totally disappear.  The angle of elevation
       of the clay-slate is different at different places.  Towards the top
       of the hill of Alvah, the clay-slate is standing almost vertical; but
       on descending the hill the angle diminishes, and in the lower
       grounds, where the strata are less deranged, it is found almost ho-
       rizontal. I cannot, with certainty, determine the existence of any
       fault or dike by which the strata are deranged.  The upper bed
       of the hill of Tipperty, toward the base, is clay-slate, but towards;
       the top of the hill, coarse mica-slate passing into secondary gneiss
       crops out; but we are unable to determine the strata on which
       these last repose.


