
     Statistical Account

out fence of earth, but not divided.  The people have it not
in their power to judge whether it would be of any ad-
vantage to them or not; though doubtless it might, as
may be seen by some small trials that have been made*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is little alteration in this parish since 1782 or 1783, except the
difference of crops, which, for some years, have been very bad, particularly
from 1782 to 1788, others middling till 1792, which was most excellent, and al-
so 1793, which is a good saving crop, only suffered a little by the rains in har-
vest, which rendered it late in ingathering.  In 1783, we received meal from go-
vernment gratis, which was distributed without distinction to those who really
had necessity for it, whether farmers or artizans, or others.  In 1784, they re-
reived a new supply, but that was paid for at a moderate price.  The other
bad years above mentioned, could not supply themselves; but a great deal of
meal and potatoes was imported by merchants, who made the best profits they
could, no doubt.  There are neither cities nor villages in this parish, and only
one ancient ruinous building, which was the palace of the Earls of Orkney,
though built at different times, and by different men, namely, the Sinclairs, com-
monly styled princes and counts of Orkney.  Robert Stuart, natural brother to
Queen Mary, as also his son Patrick, made great additions; it is now much in
ruins, but has been built upon the model of Holyroodhouse, being a square
area built upon the four sides, with a well in the middle; but for the largeness of
the building, it has had little conveniency according to the taste of the times
Above the gate was the famous inscription, which, among other points of ditty,
cost Earl Patrick his head.  It runs as follows:  Dominus Robertus Stuartns silius
Facobi quinti Rex Scotorum, bec opus instruxit, and above his cost of arms was the
following motto:  Sic suit, est, et erit.  The stone, as far as I know, is now in the
possession of the Earl of Morton, to whom the lands were sold, and by him sold
to Sir Lawrence Dundas, in whose son's possession the greatest estate of the pa-
rish does still continue.  As to the schools in this parish, we have a legal paro-
chial school paid by the heritors at 900 merks Scotch, besides some perquisites,
which are generally paid in kind.  The schoolmaster has likewise the session
clerkship, which yields 20 L. Scotch.
   Two charity schools have been established in this parish, by a mortification
left by Nicol Spence, late church agent, which is the rent of his houses in
Edinburgh, lying in Warriston's close; as likewise one in Harray, which shall be
mentioned in its proper place.
There are no settled inns in this parish, but plenty of ale houses, as there are
no gaugers.  As to the morality of the people, it may be just as well hurt by
Orkney ole as burning whisky.


