
                     ABBEY ST BATHANS.                        107

incursions of the Danes, destroyed more than once by fire; a cala-
mity to which such edifices were in those days peculiarly liable
from their having been constructed of wood. In a subsequent age
it became a living of considerable value, * but at the Reformation
its revenues were reduced to a very small amount.
   At the church of St Bathans a convent of Cistertian nuns, with
the title of a Priory, was founded between the years 1184 and 1200
by Ada, daughter to King William the Lion, and wife to Patrick
Earl of Dunbar. From this lady and her husband, and from sub-
sequent benefactors, the institution received various grants in lands
and revenues, and among other benefactions the patronage of the
church, a grant which enabled the nuns, by appointing a vicar, to
appropriate to themselves the large revenues of the living. The
property thus acquired consisted of a considerable estate in the
immediate neighbourhood of the convent, various detached sub-
jects lying in the counties of East Lothian and Berwick, and a
large revenue in tithes.  + About the time of the Reformation the
lands were alienated by the prioress and nuns, principally to Lord
Home, for payment of annual feu-duties; and, on the final suppres-
sion of monasteries, the benefice itself was gifted to Elizabeth Home,
a relative of the same nobleman, and wife to Adam Cuming, Com-
mendator of Beauly; and, by a transaction with her, and through
the favour of the crown, it was subsequently acquired by David, son
to Patrick Lindsay, Bishop of Ross, afterwards Archbishop of Glas-
gow, who seems to have disposed of it in parcels to various indivi-
duals. Elizabeth Home took the title of Prioress, and David
Lindsay that of Prior of St Bathans.++
   Besides the church and priory of St Bathans, a chapel was
founded in this parish, but by whom, or at what time, does not ap-
pear.

<FOOTNOTE>4th, St Baithen. Besides the circumstance that none of his competitors seem to have
any claim, there are various reasons for supposing that St Baithen is entitled
considered as the patron saint of this parish. 1. About the time at which the church
was founded, a constant intercourse subsisted between this part of the country and
Iona, where St Baithen was abbot. 2. Like his relation, St Columba, St Baithen
preached in this part of the country; and, 3. The name of this saint and the most an-
cient name of this parish (St Boythan) are very similar in sound.
    See Taxatio in Chalmers' Caledonia, ii. 322.
    The estate in the neighbourhood of the convent consisted of the farms of St Ba-
thans, Frampath, and Hardhissells, with their corn and waulk-mills, Blackerston, and
the half of Quixwood. The other properties of the priory were situated in Stenton,
Pople, Belhaven, Cockburnspath, Butterdean, Billie, Dunse, Ninewar, Kimmergham,
and Edinburgh; and its tithes consisted of those of Waughton and Craquha, of the
town and mains of Cockburnspath and their steadings, including Fulfordlees and the
two Hoprigs, the two Shiells, Rauchenside and Cloves, and those of the farms be-
longing to the convent itself.-(Title-deeds of the Benefice.)
     See Title-Deeds.




