
948               GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

Carron, Clyde, Calder, Gartsherrie, and Chapel Hall are partly
supplied with ironstone.
   But it is in the parish of Old Monkland that the iron ma-
nufacture is carried on to the greatest extent.  The seven
companies who carry on this manufacture in the parish have
already 34 furnaces in blast, 1 out of blast, 4 in the process of
building, and 18 contemplated.  To give an idea of the energy
with which this manufacture has been conducted, and of the ra-
pidity with which it has extended, we may state, that, in 1794, only
3600 tons of pig-iron were produced with the consumption of
36,000 tons of coals; in 1839, the produce of pig-iron was
176,800 tons, and the consumption of coals 530,400 tons.  The
magnificent and ingenious apparatus employed in these works, or
in the course of preparation ; the activity of the workmen, with
its, stupendous results, exhibit a display of human ingenuity and
industry, and of the power of science and skill, eminently worthy
of the attention of the curious, and which cannot be seen without
equal wonder and gratification.  This parish itself, abounding as
it does in ironstone of the best quality, cannot furnish a sufficient
supply for these extensive works, which depend for their chief
supplies on the adjoining parish of New Monkland.  About nineteen
pits of ironstone are wrought in Old Monkland, producing the
upper black-band, which is of inferior quality; and the black-
band, properly so called, which is particularly valuable, from the
quantity of coal with which it is connected, and which renders
much less fuel necessary in working it.  This mineral is a certain
source of wealth to the proprietor on whose lands it is found.  On
Rochsilloch, in New Monkland, the property of Sir William
Alexander, an annual income of L.12,600 is realized from this
mineral; while the same land, if let for tillage, would not yield
half as many hundreds.  In that part of the Gorbals which be-
longs to the parish of Govan, Wr William Dixon has extensive
iron works, in which he has four hot-blast furnaces, and intends to
erect as many more; the average produce of the whole of which
will be 4000 of pig-iron.  He is likewise constructing a bar-iron
manufactory, which is to have 42 puddling furnaces, calculated to
produce 400 tons of bar-iron weekly.  In coal-mines at Jordan-
hill and Cartnavel, in this parish, there is found above the gas-
coal a valuable seam of black-band ironstone from 10 to 15 inches
thick; and farther down are several seams of clay-band, ranging
in thickness from 5 to 12 inches, and yielding from 30 to 33 per
cent. of iron.


