
290                          ARGYLESHIRE.

improvements that he makes ought to be done with the view of
meliorating his pasture.
   Plantations.-These are of recent formation in this parish.  They
chiefly consist of larches, spruce, Scotch and silver firs, elms, alders,
beeches, and planes.  Planes seem to reconcile themselves best to
the disadvantages of unfavourable soil and climate.  At Fishinish, in
a very exposed situation, on that part of the Lochbuy estate which
lies on the Sound of Mull, a few large planes are in a thriving
state, while there is not a vestige of any other kind of tree, or even
shrub, seen making its appearance in the surrounding landscape.
   Rent of Land.-It is impossible to ascertain the average rent of
an acre of arable land in this parish, as the farms are all let as
grazing farms.
   The grazing of a full-grown, cow or ox is L.2 for the year, and
for a ewe or full-grown sheep, 2s.
   Wages.-The wages of men-servants are from L.7 to L.10 per
annum with board; of women servants, from L.3 to L.4 for the
same period.  The wages of a shepherd who lives in his master's
house, are between L.8 and L.12, or an equivalent in grazing.  If
he have a house of his own, his wages consist of the grazing of
two cows, a horse, and twenty sheep, with potato land, and
ground for raising as much crop as will fodder his cattle.  Day
labourers, occasionally employed, receive 1s. 3d. in summer, and
1s. in winter.  A mason gets 2s. a day; a carpenter, 2s. 6d.; and
a tailor, 1s. 6d.  Smiths do not contract for work.  The price of
a set of horse shoes is 3s.  Other work is in proportion.
   Husbandry.-The rotation of crops, on land possessed by pro-
prietors or tacksmen that have their arable subdivided, is gene-
rally as follows : 1. oats ; 2. a green crop, either of potatoes or
turnip; 3. oats or bear, sown down with grass seeds; 4. hay; 5.
second crop of hay; 6. pasture.
   The arable possessed by crofters or small tenants, paying a rent
of between L.10 and L.30, is in constant tillage.  Two white
crops and a potato crop have long succeeded each other on their
patches of ground, without intermission.
   Improvements.-Much has been done of late in the parish in
the way of reclaiming waste land, straightening the channels of
rivulets, and draining wet, arable, and hill pasture; but these im-
provements have been chiefly executed by proprietors.
   The tacksmen are beginning to follow, on a small scale, the
good example thus set before them ; but the shortness of their


