
                    CAMPBELTON.                             463

      The language generally spoken in the town of Campbelton is
     English; and Gaelic prevails in certain parts of the landward pa-
     rish ; but the Highlanders, with few exceptions, understand and
     can carry on business in the English language.

                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
       The number of males employed in agriculture as farmers, cot-
     tars, and servants, is 390; masters and workmen employed in ma-
     nufactures and making machinery, shopkeepers, and dealers, 520;
     proprietors, wholesale merchants, shipowners, capitalists, bankers,
     and professional men, 100; artisans, colliers, and miners, 710 ;
     but the number of sailors, fishermen, and jobbers, cannot be cor-
     rectly ascertained.  The average wages of servants hired for farm-
     ing work by the year may be stated as follows: married plough-
     men, from L.8 to L. 1O of money, with a cow's grass, 52 stones of
     ineal, and 6 bolls of potatoes ; unmarried ploughmen, first class,
     L.14; second class, L.10.  Women's wages are from L.4 to L,6,
     with victuals.  Average wages of agricultural labourers, Is. 3d. ;
     women, during nine months in the year, 1s., and in harvest, 1s.
     2d. per day, without victuals.    The average wages of colliers,
     blacksmiths, joiners, and cartwrigbts, 14s. per week; masons,
     shoemakers, and maltmen, 12s., and tailors, 9s.  The weekly
     wages of the lowest class of labourers and artisans, who have no
     parochial relief, is 6s. Children are employed in such field labour
     as they can be sent to at 6d. per day ; and boys in the town find
     employment in fishing for the Glasgow and home markets, and
     about distilleries.
       Fisheries.-The herring fishing, at one time, employed a num-
     ber of vessels and men belonging to this place; but, owing to the
     withdrawal of the Government boutity to encourage seamen for
     the navy, the greater part of the capital formerly embarked in that
     trade by the merchants of Campbelton, is now invested in distil-
     leries; but it is now again prosecuted to a considerable extent by
     the fishermen themselves, particularly within the last three years,
     owing to their peculiar success in having adopted a superior de-
     scription of boats and nets, (the latter being manufactured by ma-
     chinery,) and their finding a ready sale for the fish while fresh in
     the Glasgow market, which are easily transported thence by steam-
     ers.  During the months of June, July, and August last, 150
     boats, with crews of four men in each, were employed fishing her-
     rings in the Sound of Kilbrandon, which were carried to Camp-


