
                           CERES.                             527

three purposes above-mentioned. It is the only one, I believe, in
the county of Fife. A great quantity of lime has been laid out
on the several farms in the parish. The farmers, as a body of
men, are of an enterprising and industrious spirit; and, as they
have lime and stones near at hand, and other necessaries for im-
proving land, they have not been slow to avail themselves of these
means. The quantity of water which abounds in the parish, and
often overflows the land, is the great obstacle to improvement in
agriculture. On one farm, during the late wet season, about 1000
cart-loads of surface were carried off half an acre of land.
     The leases are, in general, of nineteen years' duration.
Manufactures.-Since the date of the last Statistical Account
three spinning-mills have been built in the parish, and a bleach-
field establishment has been erected at Duraden. In 1827, two
mills were built on the grounds of Easter Pitscottie. The ma-
chinery is propelled partly by water, and partly by steam. The
steam, in general, is only required in summer, occasionally when
the water is light. The mills belong to Messrs William and James
Yool, manufacturers, Ceres. There is accommodation for the fa-
milies of the workers in the buildings at these mills; and they con-
tain altogether upwards of 150 individuals. There is a teacher and
a small library attached to the mills. The other spinning-mill,
which belongs to Mr David Yool, was erected at Tarvit in 1799.
The machinery at this mill goes partly by water, and partly by
steam; and the power is applied also to the turning of a saw-mill.
The three spinning-mills are occupied in preparing and, spinning
flax, tow, and yarns. The raw material is obtained from Dundee:
and the yarns are sent partly to the Dundee market, and partly to
manufacturers in Fife. 150 men, women, and young people are em-
ployed. The bleachfield establishment was erected in 1825 by some
manufacturers in Ceres. It has received the name of St Ann's
Bleaching Company, from a well of that name in the vicinity.
The number of hands employed varies from 35 to 40. The sup-
ply of brown raw material for it, is chiefly obtained from the mills
already mentioned. Previous to the erection of this bleachfield,
little was manufactured by the weavers in Ceres except "Brown
Silesias;" now the yarns are all cleaned and bleached, and the
people are empoyed in weaving  dowlas and sheeting. From 700
to 900 are engaged in this employment; and from L.50,000 to
L. 60,000 sterling worth of dowlas and sheeting are anually ma-
nufactured in the parish. To any one who reads this statement


