
18			   DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

cate with Dumfries. This, it is considered, would be of immense
local importance.
	The turnip husbandry is now carried on to the greatest pos-
sible extent, and is found to be a valuable improvement upon the
dry sharp sandy soils, of which a large proportion of the arable
land in this parish consists. Forty years ago it was a rare thing
to see turnips sown; but for the last five years, 150 acres have
been about the average extent of land occupied by that article.
Almost all the turnip crops are eaten on the ground by sheep.
About one-half of the quantity of turnips is raised by the aid of
bone manure, at an expense of from L. 3, 10s. to L. 4, 10s. per
acre. The general duration of leases is from fifteen to nineteen
years. These leases are decidedly favourable to the tenants, who
generally prefer the latter period.
	The farm-buildings, upon the whole, are by no means so com-
fortable as they should be, owing chiefly to a large proportion of
the landward part of the parish being entailed property. The
fences are in a better condition.
	Quarries.--Four red sandstone quarries are worked in this
parish; and at an annual expense of about L. 1000.
	Fisheries.--The only fisheries carried on are those of salmon
and trout; the rents of which amount to about L. 500 a-year.
	Produce.--The average gross amount and value of raw produce
raised in the parish may be as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man, or the domestic
	animals,                                                 L.12,800    0   0
Of potatoes, turnips, cabbages, beet, and other plants, cultivated in
	the fields for food,                                         4600    0   0
Of hay, whether meadow or cultivated,     }
                                                                     1760    0   0
Of crops cultivated for the arts, as flax,}
Of land in pasture,                                                  1526    0   0
Of fisheries, whether sea, river, or lake,                            500    0   0
Of quarries,                                                         1000    0   0
                                                                ____________________
            Total yearly value of raw produce raised,           L. 22,186    0   0

	Manufactures.--The only manufactures carried on to any great
extent in Dumfries are those of hats and stockings. The latter
of these does not at present yield a very encouraging remunera-
tion. No fewer than 279 frames are employed by the stock-
ing-weavers in this place. There are three hat-manufactories;
in whibh together, nearly 200 workmen are employed. Formerly
checked cottons were fabricated, but this branch has fallen off; and
most of the cotton-spinners who remain are in the employ of
Carlisle or Glasgow manufacturers. The trade of tanning is also


