
686                            FIFESHIRE.

time, 4&., and, if permanent aid is required, 2s.perweek. Some of the
others allow less.
     There is, however, less alacrity now than in time past among
young men to enrol themselves in these Societies, and as their suc,
cess and stability depend on new accessions to supply the vacancies
made by death, there is reason to apprehend a less permanent exist-
ence to some of them than their benevolent projectors contemplated.
    There has not been shewn any strong disposition to make use
of savings banks, nor has any branch of those institutions been
here established, though, doubtless, an investment in them would
possess many advantages in the way of encouraging economy and
counteracting improvidence. A branch of the Commercial Bank,
Edinburgh, has been recently introduced, which will afford new
facilities to the business part of the community.
    Poor and Parochicial Funds.-Though this class must have increas-
ed with an increasing population, yet it has done so by no means in
the same ratio. In 1621, the ordinary poor were 21; in 1645, 23;
the intermediate years exhibiting little fluctuation. At present, and
for the last twenty years, the ordinary poor average 50 on the roll
for stated supply. In few cases, is full maintenance afforded, the
weekly pension being chiefly given to persons disabled by sickness
or age from industrial employments, and wanting relations in a
condition to relieve them fully, though, with a little assistance,
well disposed to contribute to the utmost of their power. The
rate of allowance varies with the circumstances of the individual's
case, there being as many trader Is. 6d. per week, as there are
above that moderate sum. A heavy charge, however, occasional-
ly occurs by having whole families devolved on parish support,
either by the death of parents, or by their desertion. Cases in the
latter predicament have, of late, become n)ore frequent, and will
necessarily multiply in proportion as moral principle is undermined,
by the insidious fallacies of opinion, which of late have been in-
dustriously propagated on the questions nf property and the mar-
riage contract.
    Besides the ordinary poor, occasional relief is administered, to a
considerable extent, to persons not claiming regular supply, though
incidentally requiring assistance. It is always an object to keep
this class distinct from the others, as far as the principle of public,
charity will allow. In general, there is no indisposition to receive
eleemosynary aid, though far less among recent settlers, than the
ancient, residents. When, cases of lunacy occur among the work-
ing classes, the parish, for the most part, is called on to defray the


