
                      PARISH OF STOBO.

     PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

             THE REV. ALEXANDER, KER, MINISTER.


           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Extent and Boundaries.-THE extent of the parish was increas-
ed after the parish of Dawick was Suppressed in 1742, on which
occasion a part of that parish was annexed to Stobo, and the other
part of it to the parish of Drummelzier. The length is 7 miles, and
the greatest breadth 5. It contains 17 square miles. It is
bounded on the west and east by the waters Biggar and Lyne; on
the north and south by the hills, or what is termed the waterfalls
of the ranges of hills, which run parallel to the river Tweed. From
the range of hills on the north of the bank, there are three lower
ranges of hills which run to the south, forming valleys between, with
streams of water flowing into the Tweed.
   The hills forming these several ranges have separate names.
The highest are the Pyked Stane, 1884 feet, Benvalla 1850, Bin-
figa 1692, Flint hill 1621 above the level of the sea. They do not
appear high, as they rise from a high level. The foot of Pyked
Stane, where the Stobo burn has its course, is 700 feet above the
level of the Tweed, where the burn joins it, so that the burn falls
700 feet in five miles.
   Meteorology.-There is nothing particularly deserving of remark
in the parish under this head. Among the prognostics of weather
may be mentioned only one, which is common of course to other
districts. Goats are said to have a peculiarly instinctive perception
as to the change of weather. Though they delight to browze
amongst rocks and high cliffs picking tip herbs and eating shrubs,
of which they have a peculiar relish, yet they are never caught in this
exposed situation during a storm. If you wish to find them, search
for a field or sheltered corner, or recess in the neighbourhood, where
they have taken up their quarters, and bid defiance to the blast.
   Shepherds of observation, who attend to the manner in which
their sheep conduct themselves previous to an approaching storm,
remark that their old sheep or ewes (for the hogs are dull and stu-
pid,) have a presentiment of change of weather.


