
66                        ARGYLESHIRE.

account, by improving the pasture on the heathy moors and sup-
plying the agriculture in the district.
   Along the banks of the rivers, especially where they join the sea,
there is a quantity of alluvial deposit, over clay or sand. The ap-
pearance of the banks of the Eachar at Kilninver, and the forma-
tion of the rocks show clearly that the whole of that strath was un-
der the water.  Freestone, of a light. blue colour, and of excel-
lent quality, abounds, on the coast. Its distance from market
however, prevents it from being wrought, otherwise it might yield
a great revenue to the proprietor, and employment to the poor.
   Zoology -The number of horses and cattle in the parish may
be computed as follows: horses, 150; black-cattle, 1200; sheep,
15,000. Since the old forests have been cut down, many of the
wild animals which once lived here have disappeared. Red-deer
are seldom seen, and when they do visit us from the neighbouring
forests of Glenurcby, they only continue a few days. There are
still roes, hares, foxes, martins, badgers, polecats, wild-cats,
otters, weasels.
   Of the feathered kind there are blackcocks, partridges, wood-
cocks, moorfowls, snipes, pigeons, grey and green plovers, differ-
ent, species of eagles, wild-ducks, and a great variety of water-
fowls, such as is common on the west coast.
Along the whole coast, there is abundance of fish of all kinds,
such as salmon, berring, ling-fish, mackerel, turbot, saitbe, bad-
dock, whiting, lythe, gurnet, red-fisb, sword-fisb, eel, flounder)
and skate, &c.
  There is a variety of shell-fish round the shores of Lochfeuchan
and Lochmelfort, such as oysters, lobsters, crabs, mussels, spout-
fish, cockles, welks, lampreys. The lakes and rivers abound with
trout and perches. The time when the salmon come up, the river
to spawn, is from the beginning of October to the end of December.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Traditions of battles fought in this parish during the feudal
times, especially between the Campbells and M'Dougalls, might
easily be obtained; but though they might furnish materials for
the poet or the novellist, yet, at this distance of time, and in
the absence of any written document, they cannot be depended
upon as historical facts. It is said, however, that an authentic ac-
count of these, and of several other important events connected
with the parish, is to be found in the Duke of Argyle's library
at Inverary.

                                      3



