
                         GLADSMUIR.                          181

der in the neighbourhood. At his death, he was buried within the
walls of the church, and was regarded as the founder of that esta-
blishment.
   When a minister was appointed, a manse was built for him at
the east end of the village of Penston, which manse is still stand-
ing, and is at present occupied by a corn-dealer in the parish. It
continued to be the dwelling of the minister till the present manse
was built, and still goes by the name of the old manse. Princi-
pal Robertson is said to have composed in it the greater part of the
History of Scotland. The kirk at Thriep law continued as a place
of worship till the erection of the present church in 1695 when it
was allowed to go into decay. And, when a colliery was afterwards
set agoing close by, the walls of it were made to form a part of
some colliers' houses. Not a vestige of it is now to be seen, the
working of coals in that place has long been discontinued, and four
poor solitary cot-houses, situated in the most dreary and inacces-
sible spot that could be found in the whole parish, still retain the
name, and keep up the remembrance of the Old Kirk. And yet,
before the addition to the parish of what was taken from Tranent,
it was perhaps the most centrical situation that could be found.
It is now surrounded and shut up with large woods on all sides;
but while it continued to be a place of worship, not a tree was to
be seen about the place, and the boundaries of the different pro-
perties. were marked by little hillocks raised for the purpose.
   Land-owner's.-There are 10 heritors or proprietors of land in
the parish. The Earl of Hope town, vice-patron, along with the
Crown, possesses the lands of Coates, and is but a small proprietor.
The Earl of Wemyss has the highest valuation, and possesses the
lands of Hairlaw, Redhouse, Setonhill, and Southfield. Baillie of
Lamington possesses Penston, Westbank, Gladsmuir, Hoprig,
Hoprigmains, and Wheatrig; *  be is yet a minor. The Earl of Had-
dington possesses the lands of Samuelston, at present occupied by
four tenants. Anderson of St Germains possesses Chesterhall,

<FOOTNOTE>Farm of Wheatrig.-The farm of Wheatrig, which belongs to Baillie of La-
mington, consisting of sixty eight Scotch acres, is detached from the rest of the
property, and was acquired in a peculiar manner. According to tradition, the Earl
of Winton was invited to dine with Baillie of Lamington. Baillie took care that
there should be no wheat bread at table, and when asked the reason, said, that none
of his lands were fit for raising wheat. The Earl, with great good humour, made
him a present of a plough gate of land capable of raising wheat, telling him he had
done so, that he might never afterwards be able to say that be could not treat his
guests with wheaten bread, because he had no lands fit for growing wheat. From
that circumstance the farm got the name of Wheatrig   It was taken from the pro-
perty of Redhouse, now in the possession of the Earl of Wemyss.


