
6                              KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

weigh from 1 to 3 pounds, their fish is red and of delicious flavour.
They, however, try the skill and patience of the professor of the
gentle art, as they are very shy and difficult to take. The parish is
plentifully watered, there being many other rills and an abundant
supply of springs of pure water within its bounds. In the burgh
roods, chalybeate springs have been discovered, which, however,
are little valued, and have not been minutely analyzed, although
their taste would indicate metallic impregnation fully as strong as
is possessed by some distant and celebrated fountains. The line
of coast from Mullock bay on the east to Torrs' point, opposite the
island of Little Ross on the west, extends about 3 miles. It is
bold and rocky, except for a short space immediately below the
farm house of Howell, and at a point east of that called "the
Haen," i. e. Haven, in Balmea, Raeberry, near the east end of
the line, rear a lofty head facing the sea, forming a frightful pre-
cipice, the haunt of raven, goshawk, and other birds of prey; it
is also freguented by the red-legged jackdaw.
	In a precipice on the Balmae shore, to the west, and not far
from the mouth of the Dee, is a remarkable natural cavern called
Torrs' Cove, which extend 60 feet into the rock. The entrance
is narrow, being little more than sufficient to admit a man on his
hans and knees to pass into the cave, then gradually widening,
it rises to a height of more th`n 12 feet which it again con-
tract to the farthest end. The roof is pendant with icicles of
stalagmite crustations. The door is said to have been originally
built with stone and to have had a lintel at the top which is now
buried in the ruins. The cave is thought to have been sometimes
used as a hiding-place in former times.
	Upon the rocks towards the sea, is found abundance of samphire.
        Geology and Mineralogy.-The geological formation of the pa-
rish is greywacke, with occasional masses and dikes of porphyry.
The latter subtance is of a colour and very compact, and ex-
ists in masses above Culdoch and upon Jordieland moor; and
upon the south side of Jordieland loch there is a small round-
ed eminence, where its junction with the greywacke being
indurated and blankened, and the crystal of the porphyry much
larger than usual. Red porphyry protrudes in the Barhill also,
and on the farms of Boreland, Little Kirkland, and Sypland.
The most of the heights in the north of the parish are capped


