
670			AYRSHIRE.

stocked deer-park on the estate of Auchans; but the deer have
all been removed to Eglinton. At the mouth of the water of Ir-
vine, and along the sea coast at Troon, salmon are regularly caught,
but not in such numbers as to render the fisheries of very great
importance. Indeed there are no fisheries of any kind worthy of
attention. Oyster scalps, however, might, in some places, be
cultivated with advantage, and we wonder why this has not been
attended to.
	Amongst animals of a ruder sort we may mention the following:
The otter (Luira culgaris) is occasionally met with, and the seal
(Phoca vitulina) has a favourite haunt on a rock in the sea not far
from Troon. Of water-fowl, the heron (Ardea cinerea), the so-
lan goose or gannet (Sula Bassana), the sheldrake (Tadorna vul-
garis), the great northern diver (Colymbus glacialis), the her-
ring gull (Larus argentatus), occasionally frequent the coast. The
common wild-duck is found in great numbers; and less frequent-
ly the teal. So far as we are aware, there is only one kind of poi-
sonous reptile, the common adder, (Vipera vulgaris,) which is
found occasionally in Shewalton moss.
	The following zoological and botanical list was kindly furnished
by the Rev. David Landsborough, minister of Stevenston, so well
known for his high attainmaints in this department of science:

	Mollusca.--
Patella pellucida      Lacuna vincta           Tellina fabula
--      caerulea       Trochus magus           Cytherea exoleta
Chiton marginatus      -- ziziphinus           Venus rugosa
--     cinereus        Nassa reticulata        Venerupis decussata
Rissoa interrupta      Pecten opercularis      Hiatella aretica
Natica glaucina        --     varius           Lutraria elliptica
--     Aldei           Cardium echinatum       Mya truncata
--     pallidula  --          exiguum          Lucina radula.
Lucina flexuosa

	A specimen of the Patella clypeus of Brown, or Lottia testudi-
nalis of Gray, was found at the Black Rock fully an inch in length,
and two-thirds of an inch in breadth. Of land-shells we shall
mention only Helix virgata and Bulimus acutus, which are found
in great abundance on the sunny embankment at Troon harbour.

	Zoophytes.--

Cellularis reptans         Crisia gracilis            Lepralia coccinea
Cellepora pumicosa 	Laomedea geniculata	Sertularia pumila
Crisla eburnea             --    gelatinosa           Plumularia cristata.
Sertularia polysonias      Valkeria cuscuta

	This last, the podded coralline, seems far from rare at Troon.
That part of the coast appears favourable to the growth of zoo-
phytes, for the specimens we found were all large. So far as we


