
                        EYEMOUTH.                        325

man. Their lands, however, are but of limited extent, only two
of them being proprietors to the amount of L. 50 per annum.*
   Although not connected with the parish in any other way, it
may not be uninteresting to mention, that the famous Duke of
Marlborough was created Baron of Eyemouth by William III.;
but the title, being limited to heirs-male, is now extinct.+
   Parochial Registers.-No parochial registers or sessional records
exist in this parish dated previous to 1709. In a minute of kirk-
session, dated 26th April 1716, the following statement occurs:
'Mr Johnston represented that the minuts of the session in his cus-
todie, from the year 1713 to the year 1716, were taken away by the
violence of the time." From 1730, the entries in the registers of
marriages, and of births and baptisms, are regular. Dissenters,
however, do not generally register the names of their children.
   Antiquities.-Under the head of antiquities, we have only to
mention the remains of a fortification upon the bold promontory
to the north of the town, thence, in common parlance, called the
Fort. It occupies the whole of the elevated ground, which is of a
triangular shape, the apex of the triangle pointing to the sea.
It was first erected by the Duke of Somerset in his famous expe-
dition against Scotland in 1547, + and was shortly after demo-

<FOOTNOTE>As illustrative of the dependence of this town on the fisheries in former times
as well as latterly, it may be mentioned, that before the division of the runrig lands,
there were several portions which were termed Fishers' Lands. Some of these were
possessed by individual fishermen, others were held by a particular tenure, being the
common property of a boat's crew.
      Notoriety of a very different kind belongs to Sprot, a lawyer, who, if not a na-
tive of the parish, at least practised as a writer in Eyemouth for many years. He
was the professional agent of Logan of Restalrig and Fastcastle; and, shortly after
the time of the Gowrie conspiracy, had let fall some hints which implied an acquain-
tance with that mysterious affair. "These rumours, getting into circulation, reach-
ed the Privy-Council, who ordered Sprot to be apprehended in the month of April
1608. When examined before the Council, and by torture, he persisted for about two
months in denying the fact, or in contradictory statements, to which no credit was
given; at last he confessed that Logan was concerned in the conspiracy with Gowrie,
and that a correspondence had been carried on between them by means of Bar, a con-
fidential servant of Logan's, who had inadvertently communicated the secret to him,
and had shown him some of the letters from the conspirators, two of which he had pur-
loined, one from Gowrie and another from Logan, which the Earl had returned after
having read: Sprot was tried and convicted upon his own confession, and hanged
the same day he was convicted. The judges appear to have doubted the truth of
his tale, and seem to have hanged the unfortunate notary in a hurry, because they
did not believe he was guilty, and were afraid of losing hils evidence in support of a
conspiracy for which the king's credit was pledged."-Aikman's History of Scotland,
Vol. iii. page 262.
       The Protector, on the second day after his arrival at Berwick, escorted by his
own band of horsemen and a few more, rode to Eyemouth, where, having examined
the inlet by which the small river Eye discharges itself into the sea, he found it would
be a commodious place for a harbour; and, soon after, ordered a fortress, for defend-
ing its entrance, to be built on a promontory on its north side. Of this fortress, he
appointed Thomas Gower, marshal of Berwick, to be governor.-Redpath's Border
History, page 560.


