
				CANONBIE                        489

exposed than any other in the district to the plundering incursions
of the English borderers, the inhabitants were by no means in-
attentive in erecting strongholds as places of defence and pro-
tection against the visits of these ruthless marauders. In this pa-
rish, therefore, many vestiges of these strongholds can be distinct-
ly traced. As the most entire of the kind, we may take notice of
the tower of Hollows, the residence of John Armstrong. It was
situated near the eastward of Hollows Bridge, upon a situation,
which, in natural beauty, cannot be equalled in Scotland. It is
in the form of an oblong square, extending in front about 60 feet
in length, and at each end of the squares about 46; the height
may be estimated at nearly 72 feet. It has two round turrets with
loop-holes at each of the east and west angles, and is built of red
sandstone; though now roofless, it must have been in former times
a building of considerable strenght.--At no great distance from
Pento Linns, on the banks of the Liddle, was situated the strong
tower of Harelaw, formerly the residence of Hector Armstrong, a
famous freebooter. This was the Armstrong, who from bribes held
out to him by Regent Murray, betrayed the Earl of Northumber-
land into his hands, after he had fled to him for protection. In the
cliffe, brother of the Eatl of Sussex, &c. raised an army and ten-
dered their services to set at liberty from the power of her enemies,
the unfortunate Queen Mary of Scotland, who was at the time a
prisoners in England. They were unsuccessful in their attempt,
and being forced to abandon their forces, fled to the Scottish bor-
derers for protection. The Countless of Northumberland, the Earl
of Westmoreland, and Ratcliffe, remained with Scott of Branx-
holm, and Kerr of Fairnihirst, till they were safely conveyed to
the continent. The Earl of Northumberland, who treated him, for a con-
siderable time, with every mark of confidence and regard; but
these feelings gave way, and in the hopes of the large reward of-
fered him by thr Regent, he betrayed him into his hands, who car-
ried him by the Regent, he betrayed him into his hands, who carried
him from Harelaw to Lochleven Castle, and who shortly after
gave him up to Elizabeth, by whose orders he was executed. Arm-
strong profited little by this base act of treachery, as he soon after
fell into poverty and disgrace, and his conduct became a proverb on
the border, when a person betrayed his friend,--" that he had put
on Hector of Harelaw's coat."--Besides the towers of Hollows and
Harelaw, it appears from the remains that there had been one at
	DUMFRIES.                       I i



