
                        COLDINGHAM.                         283

November 1544, the English seized the abbey and fortified it so
strongly, that all the efforts of the Earl of Arran, Regent of Scot-
land, failed to reduce it. In 1545 it was burnt by the Earl of
Hertford, and never after-wards regained its former wealth and con-
sequence. John Stewart, commendator, who married Lady Jane
Hepburn, sister of the well-known Earl of Bothwell, died in 1563
leaving two sons, Francis and John, on the eldest of whom James
VI. again bestowed the commendatorship of Coldingham. Fran-
cis, like his father, having rebelled against his kinsman and bene-
factor, the whole of the temporalities were taken from him and
bestowed upon the Earl of Home. On the earl's death in 1619,
John, the second son of Francis, who had been created Earl of
Bothwell, was appointed commendator. This worthless and pro-
fligate individual, in order to procure the means of supporting him-
self in his career of dissipation and extravagance, alienated in small
lots, all the lands which had hitherto remained attached to the
priory, and from him the numerous small proprietors in the imme-
diate neighbourhood of the church and village received the charters
by which they continue to hold their property. Of this most an-
cient and richly endowed monastery nothing now remained but its
magnificent church, and the extensive buildings by which it was
surrounded. It was left to Oliver Cromwell to complete its final
overthrow, as he passed through Berwickshire to attack the army
of the Scots. A strong body of the inhabitants of the district,
who were generally Episcopalians and royalists, established and
fortified themselves in the church and tower, in which their fore-
fathers had successfully defended themselves against the Earls of
Arran and Angus. The first detachment of troops which Crom-
well sent, was repulsed with loss, and he was forced to bring up se-
veral pieces of cannon, which in two days shook the tower, and
compelled its defenders to capitulate. He afterwards, that he
might leave no means of annoyance in his rear, blew up the church,
leaving only the north wall and east gable. The tower was nine-
ty feet in height, and formed the north-west corner of the northern
transept of the church. It continued in a very precarious state,
till it fell about sixty years ago, and not a stone of it now remains.
The north wall and east gable of the present church form the
whole that remains of this ancient monastery, founded upwards
of 700 years ago. They afford beautiful specimens of the transi-
tion from the Norman to the early English style of architecture.
A number of circular arches, each two divided with an intercolum-


