
     of Kenmore.

   Roads and Bridges.-On both sides of Loch Tay are good
roads from Kenmore to Killin.  The one on the north side

<FOOTNOTE>

ebb and flow in this manner for the space of two hours, the eb-
bings succeeding each other at the distance of about 7 minutes,
and gradually lessening, till the water settled into its ordinary
level.
   "At the same time that the undulation was observed in the
bay on the south side of the village, the river on the north was
seen to run back; the weeds at the bottom, which before point-
ed with the stream, received a contrary direction; and its
channel was lest dry about 12 feet from either edge.  Under
the bridge, (which is 60 or 70 yards from the lake), the cur-
rent failed, and the bed of the river appeared where there had
been 18 inches of water.
   "During the whole time that this phenomenon was observ-
ed, the weather was calm.  It could barely be perceived, that
the direction of the clouds was from N. E.  The barometer
(as far as I can recollect) stood the whole of that and the pre-
ceding day, about 2 9 1/2 inches.
   "On the next, and the 4 succeeding days, an ebbing and
flowing was observed, nearly about the same time, and for the
same length of time, but not at all in the same degree as on the
first day.  A similar agitation was remarked at intervals, some
days in the morning, other days in the afternoon, till the 15th
of October, since which time no such thing has been observed.
   "I have not heard (although I have made particular inqui-
ry) that any motion of the earth was felt in this neighbour-
hood, or that the agitation of the water was observed any
where but about the village of Kenmore.
   "I hope the above account will furnish an answer to most
of the questions contained in your letter.  If there be any other
circumstance, about which you wish to have farther informa-
tion, it will give me pleasure to be able to communicate it.

     "I am, etc.

     (Signed) "THO. FLEMING.

   "N. B. The village of Kenmore is situated nearly in the
parallel of 56 deg. 38 sec and about 1 degree west of the me-
ridian of Edinburgh.  Loch Tay extends from thence some-
what more than 15 miles W. S. W.  Its medium breadth is
not much less than a mile, and its depth must be very consider-


