
48                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

ly striking and elegant.  In each end of the transept is a beautiful
Gothic window, formed by arched divisions and tracery of stone.
work, part of which has yielded to the dilapidations of time. Owing
to the marshy nature of the ground, the whole structure seems to
have been built on strong piles of oak, driven deeply into the yield-
ing soil, and thus forming a perfectly secure foundation.  Portions
of these piles have been occasionally dug up in excavating graves,
and found to be not only firm and entire, but even of a hardness
and compact consistency little short of black marble, such has been
the effect of the antiseptic qualities of the morass, together with
the pressure which they have so long sustained. A portion of the
ground, formerly inclosed within the moat, still bears the name of
"the Knights' Garden," although it has long been cultivated by
the plough alone, and yielded ho other produce than that common
to the adjacent fields.
   Notwithstanding the entire disappearance of the nave, the larger
portion the original building, there are no records, nor even
traditions of its having been demolished by any sudden burst of
popular violence.  From any such fate it may have been preserved
by its falling entire into the hands of Sir James Sandilands, who
could have no interest in its destruction, and whose influence with
the Reformers would be sufficient for its preservation. But as Cal-
der House very soon became the chief residence of the Lords
Torphichen, it was neglected, and, falling into decay, was used as
a quarry, whence stones might be procured for any necessary pur-
pose. That such was the case is evident from the fact, that many
houses in the village are built entirely of hewn stones, such in
size, form, and apparent age as those of the portion which still re-
mains standing, while the greater part of the stone walls by which
the adjoining fields are subdivided are composed of exactly similar
materials. In this manner have the walls of the nave been carried
piece-meal at length entirely away. There was also, according to
tradition, another house of some size and unknown antiquity, built
close to one angle of the transept, a portion of which was standing
about eighty years ago, as the writer of this was informed by an
old woman who died in 1837 at the age of eighty-nine. It was
said to have been a separate tenement, built for the accommoda-
tion of the knights when their numbers had increased beyond what
the preceptory could conveniently contain. It communicated with
the transept a private door which is still visible though strong-
ly built up. While the lovers of antiquity must deplore the dila-
                               3

