
                         KIRKINTILLOCH                           177

posed to extend considerably to the west, but this, as we shall pre-
sently see, has been proved not to be the case from recent borings.
The three feet or main coal is three fathoms above the thin or
eighteen inch seam, and the calm lime four feet thick, nine feet above
the main coal. The thin coal is wrought long-wall, so that all
the coal is wrought out. The main coal is wrought "stoop and
room," but not so extensively as the former. The engine pit is
38 1/2 fathoms deep, fitted with an excellent engine of eleven horse
power, adapted to draw both coals and water. This work as well
as the extensive collieries at Banknock, on the opposite side of
the canal, belong to the Honourable Admiral Fleming. The
works at Shirva belong to Walter Ballantyne, Esq.
  In a position almost exactly between these two small insulated
basins of coal, and also on the south bank of the canal, is the sin-
gular conical coal-field of Stron or Barr-hill. The minerals here
are the property of Captain Murray Gartshore, of Gartshore, and
William Wallace, Esq. of Auchinvole. This field, as we have seen,
is saddle-shaped. The prevailing rock in tbis locality is a felspatho-
pyroxenic trap, which, as already stated, seems to have burst up at
a period subsequent to the formation of the coal-field, carrying the
coal, &c. along with it. This hill is in a peculiar range of coun-
try, namely, exactly'in the direction of the anticlinal line, which
alters the dip of the metals from east to west, and runs of course
in the direction of the strike. If a line were drawn on the map
of Scotland from north to south through this hill, it would be
nearly the anticlinal line of a large portion of the district. it
will pass on between the sources of the Endrick and Carron on
the north, causing the one to run east, and the other west. In
the south, the same line determines the courses of the numerous
waters which run into the Tweed and the Clyde. The Clyde
and the Forth alone, with daring impunity, boldly cross and sweep
along this line, and at these crossings of the anticlinal line lie the
principal coal-fields. The anticlinal line, which here produces the
divergence of all the metals, runs up the face of the Barr-hill, by
the Stron engine, so that all the metals to the east of that line dip
to the east, and all the metals to the west dip to the west. The
strike of the metals is due north and south. The dip of the coal-
field at Shirva is accordingly to the west, while that at Holland
Hirst is to the east. These speculations must be taken with some
degree of allowance, but they will be found near the truth. There
are two principal seams at Stron, as at Holland Hirst; but the

   DUMBARTON.                      M


