			LESMAHAGO.                        33

ther of Edward III. of the abbey, and its destruction a second
time by fire, kindled by the zeal of the old reformers. This religi-
ous spirit appears to have here broken forth on more occasions; for
many of the inhabitants bore arms at Bothwell Bridge. The col-
lours and the drum then used are still preserved in the parish.
	It was in Lesmahago that the unfortunate Mr Macdonald of
Kinlochmoidart was apprehended by a carpenter named Meikle,
and a young clergyman of the name of Linning,--while on his
way south to join Prince Charles; in revenge for which, the clans,
on their way north, burned Melkle's house. A Mr Lawrie, gene-
rally designated the Tutor of Blackwood, from his having married
the heiress of that estate, seems to have been a leading character
in this part of the country in and about the time of the Revolution.
His son was created a baronet by King William.
	Land-owners.--The Duke of Hamilton, Lord Douglas, and
James J. Hope Vere, Esq. of Blackwood, are the principal pro-
prietors in Lesmahago; there are a number of other respectable
land-owners, several of whom reside upon their properties.
	Parochial-Registers.--The parochial registers commence in
1697; since which time they have been pretty regularly kept, and
now extend to twenty volumes.
	Antiquities.--Lesmahago can boast of little to attract the no-
tice of the antiquarian, excepting the ruins of Craignethan Castle;
which about a century ago passed from the family of Hay into that
of Douglas, by purchase.
	The remains of an old abbey were pulled down about thirty years
ago, to make room for a modern church; and an old Roman road
which passed through a corner of the parish, has been obliterated by
the plough.--About twenty years ago, 100 small silver coins of Ed-
ward I. were found below a large stone.--Nearly at the same time
a Roman vase was found in the parish; it is now placed in the
museum of the University of Glasgow. Some Roman coins have
also been found; and in making a drain about ten years ago, an
old Caledonian battle-axe, made of stone, war found upon the es-
tate of Blackwood. It is now in the possession of the proprietor.
	Many large cairns have been removed in this parish, for mate-
rials in making roads and fences. These were always found to
contain bones in the centre, but so far decayed is to crumble into
dust on exposure to the air.
	Modern Buildings.--A number of modern mansions have been
erected by the resident gentlemen within the last thirty years, and

	LANARK,                              C


