
394                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

   On the 22d October 1839, at or near 10 o'clock P. M., two
slight shocks of an earthquake were distinctly felt in several places
in Stirling.
   There is no rain-guage here, by which the quantity of rain
might be determined.
   The atmosphere of the lower part of the town being, from its
trifling elevation, and from the heavy quality of the soil, some-
what humid, combines with the variableness of the weather to pro-
duce occasionally catarrh, sore-throat, influenza, and similar com-
plaints. Typhus and scarlet fever also, from time to time, make
their appearance, and prove severe; the former chiefly, but by
no means exclusively, among the poor; the latter usually among
the young. Small-pox, of late years, has often visited the town;
and has, in many instances, proved fatal. Measles and hooping-
cough, as may be expected, frequently prevail, and carry off a por-
tion of the children of the place. Cholera prevailed to a very con-
siderable extent in Stirling and the neighbourhood, at the time of
its general prevalence throughout the island. Ninety cases were
reported to the Central Board of Health, as having occurred in
the town, of which fifty-nine terminated fatally. It broke out
again in 1832. The cases were much fewer in number, but a
larger proportion proved fatal.
   In forming an estimate of the healthfulness of any place, it
must always be an interesting object to ascertain the compo-
nent parts and qualities of the water daily consumed by the
inhabitants. The water of the public wells here is spring-water
brought from the Touch hills, three miles from the town, in a
pipe of two inches calibre, delivering at its maximum 19,532
imperial gallons in twenty-four hours, or, for each individual of
the present population, 2.271 gallons; and at its minimum, 7812
gallons, or for each individual, .909 gallons per day, showing in
seasons of drought a very inadequate supply, insufficient to pre-
serve the cleanliness of the poorer classes, and consequently inju-
rious to their health. It is very pure in its appearance, and its
chemical analysis, discovering no other substance combined with
it but muriate of lime, proves it to be really so. It is admirably
adapted for domestic purposes. Besides the water supplied by
the public wells, there is near the south Port, on the very verge of
the parish towards St Ninians, that of the well called St Ninian's
Well, on account, of its having been dedicated to that saint. It
is celebrated for its copiousness and purity. It is a hardish wa-


