
132                             FIFESHIRE.


sufficiently authenticated. It is well known, however, that although
the advantages which Scotland has derived from the union with
England, have been long and deservedly acknowledged, it was at
first lamented as an era of misfortune to the Scottish nation. The
trade of many of the towns on the coast of Fife was greatly depres-
sed by it, and in almost all of them it began to languish. Dysart
was involved in the common fate. From this time its shipping,
which had far exceeded that of any other port on the coast, fell
rapidly into decay,-its general commerce declined,-its trade with
the low countries in particular fell off oradually: even the coal and
salt trade is small in comparison of vhat it once was; and Dysart
by no means holds that rank in the scale of merchandise which it
formerly did./f*
  Eminent Men.-Among the eminent characters connected with
the parish, the following may be mentioned. The first Earl of
Dysart was son of the Rev. William Murray, minister of Dysart;
and this nobleman is represented as having taken a conspicuous
part in the counsels of Charles 1.
  In Calderwood's History of the Church of Scotland, the Rev.
William Hog, who was deposed for non-conformity in 1619, is re-
presented as a man of considerable eminence. The Bishop of St
Andrews tried every method to gain him; sometimes he used
threats, and at other times promises. On one occasion, he promis-
ed him the richest living in his gift if he would engage not to preach
against Episcopacy, but finding that every effort was in vain, he
passed sentence of deposition and even of banishment against him.
It appears, however, that Mr Hog did not leave the kingdom, but
was afterwards admitted minister of Kennoway, in which parish he
died.
  The Rev. Mungo Law was celebrated in his day, both as a
preacher and as a man of talents. During his incumbency in,the
second charge of this parish, he had calls to various places. After
a keen contest, he was chosen representative of the Presbytery of

  <FOOTNOTE>Besides the records of the burgh, the kirk-session and the prdsbytery, from which
the above information has been chiefly collected, there is a manuscript containing
many curious facts respecting the antiquities of Dysart, of which Sir Walter Scott
largely availed himself in his Tales of a Grandfather. It is the property of the Earl
ofroislyn. Another is alluded to in a small publication by Mr Charles Mackie,
entitled Historical Description of the Castle and Chapel of Roalin. And about, two
years ago, Mr William Muir, parochial teacher in Dysart, collected, and at the re-
quest of a few friends, printed a small book containing many interesting facts respect-
ing the parisb, the church, and the school. This gentleman, who is a distinguished
scholar and antiquarian in possession many curious coins, old receipts, and au-
tographs of eminent persons in life.


