
    160                     ROXBVRGHSHIRE.

    encircled on every side by hills, except on the east, where it opens
    into England. The sides of the hills immediately bounding the
    vale are all under tillage, and covered generally with a rich and
    light soil resting on gravel and rock. Towards the middle of this
    vale, and near the village of Town Yetholm, another valley, or
    tract of low level ground, the opposite sides of which rise to a con-
    siderable elevation, branches off in a westerly direction towards
    Yetholm Loch.
	The climate of Yetholm is remarkably clear and healthy, and
    the temperature much milder than might be expected.
	Hydrography.-Yetholm Loch, sometimes also called Primside
    Loch, is a sheet of water nearly a mile and a half in circumference:
    it abounds with pike and perch: and is frequented by a great va-
    riety of water-fowl; of which the rarer species are the wild swan,
    the goosander, and the Siberian goose; but these only appear in
    severe winters. Bowmont Water, in some very old charters, is also
    written Bol-bent and Bow-bent, and is probably so named from the
    curvature of its course. It has its source in the Cocklaw, and, af-
    ter mingling with the College, it joins the Till, a tributary of the
    Tweed. The Bowmont is stocked with abundance of fine trout,
    and before the erection of a mill-dam or call on the Till at Etal,
    salmon-grilses and sea-trout were frequently caught. The course
    of the Bowmont is extremely rapid, and, from its vicinity to the
    hills, it is exposed to frequent high floods, which sometimes do in-
    credible mischief to the haughs and meadow pasture, tearing up
    and carrying away the rich deep soil on its banks, and occasional-
    ly burying whole acres under a bed of unproductive sand and gra-
    vel. The practicability of embanking this river is an important
    subject of consideration to the proprietors; and those who have
    resided longest upon its banks are generally of opinion that this
    may he done, and at an expense which, when compared with the
    importance of the object, might be called inconsiderable.
	Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks composing the bills in
    this parish belong to the transition series, and are the compact
    felspar-porphyry and the pitchstone-porphyry,-the latter of which
    affords very excellent specimens. The felspar-porphyry is by far
    the most abundant rock, not only of the Yetholm Hills, but of the
    whole Cheviot range. Numerous nodules of agate and common
    jasper are met with in this rock; and these are also dispersed in
    abundance over, the surrounding plains, and are very frequent in
    the gravel of the Bowmont Water and other streams. It is by no
				3


