
     Statistical Account

   With a view to guard against disappointments in reference
to agricultural improvements, to communicate the success
of experiments, and to remedy certain inconveniences to
which this district is liable by its local circumstances; the
principal farmers in the island of Stronsay, most chearfully
concurred to form themselves into a society; and they accor-
dingly did form and constitute the society of farmers in Stron-
say, about eighteen months ago, to which almost all the far-
mers in the island have thought proper to accede.  This so-
ciety agreed to such bye-laws as they judged necessary for re-
gulating their future procedure.  They resolved, that small
sums should be contributed annually by the members, who
were ranked in four different classes, according to the extent

<FOOTNOTE>

ing instruments which he adopted were different from those used in this i-
sland.  The inhabitants, like all others who have little intercourse with stran-
gers, were averse to innovations, and despised a mode of farming different in
some respects from that to which they and their progenitors had unmemorially
been inured.  The general opinion of the inhabitants, it is natural to conjec-
ture, had its weight with Mr Balfour's servants, all of whom, being natives
of Stronsay, except the grieves or overseers, soon manifested an aversion to
use implements of agriculture different from those with which they had been
acquainted from their infancy.  Accordingly, there improvements were not
carried on with such a degree of industry and perseverance as could reasons-
bly be supposed to secure success, 3dly.  The attempts made were merely to
raise grain, for which purpose, the manure was found scanty.  Sea-weeds
were the only manure used on Linksness.  When the seasons, therefore, were
unfavourable, or if but little of this article happened to be cast ashore, the
crops were not productive.  In other places, where little or no sea-weeds
could be got, horse dung, mixed with green sods or turf, was the only substi-
tute.
   The small quantity of this manure which could be procured from a new
farm, behoved greatly to retard the progress of improvement of a soil so poor
in quality as above described.  Another obstruction to its melioration, was an
ill judged anxiety to come as near as possible to the general practice in Ork-
ney, of keeping corn fields under bear and oat crops alternately in equal pro-
portions for ever.


