
     of Langbolm.

   Church, etc.-The church has been thrice built since the
erection of Langholm into a parish, in the years 1703,
1747, and 1779.  The present church is commodious, but
not elegant.  It stands E. from the town, on the side of a

<FOOTNOTE>

tree. It is much more congenial to the feelings of every humane and bene-
volent magistrate to prevent crimes by all possible means, than to punish
them.  To punish, however necessary, must always he a painful part of
his duty.  In vain will priests preach, or magistrates punish, if the origo
mali is not removed.  Remove the cause, and the effects in time will
cease.  Let the distilleries then, those contaminating fountains, from
whence such poisonous streams issue, he, if not wholly, at least in a great
measure, prohibited; annihilate unlicensed tippling-houses and dram-
shops, those haunts of vice, those feminaries of wickedness, where the
young of both fexes are early seduced from the paths of innocence and vir-
tue, and from whence they may too often date their dreadful doom, when,
instead of"running the fair career of life" with credit to themselves, and
advantage to society, they are immolated on the altar of public justice.
In reply to these remarks, it may be said, perhaps, "That distilleries are
a home market for barley," etc. and that" they are very productive
sources of revenue."  Perish for ever those gains, and that revenue, how-
ever productive, which are levied from the ruins of the peace, of the pro-
sperity, and virtue of the empire!  This is supporting Government, by ad-
ministering what may ultimately subvert and operate the downfall of our
venerable Constitution.  In order to support Government, must what is
leading fast to destroy the vitals of the Constitution be tolerated?  This is
like a physician taking fees from his patients for administering poison.
Dr Sangrado's system of bleeding and warm water, in all cafes, is not
more absurd.
   Beer is the natural and the wholesome beverage of the country.  Instead
of inflaming the passions, and prompting men to the commission of every
crime, like whisky, beer nourishes the body without producing any dismal
effects.  When breweries are encouraged, and distilleries, the direful
sources of much human misery, are abolished, the useful part of the com-
munity will be reclaimed from their vitiated taste, and will quench their
thirst at purer and more falubrious fountains.  If the author of these ob-
servations shall be thought to have discovered more zeal than knowledge
in expatiating upon this subject, he shall only say, that he trusts that the
candid will at least give him credit for the reclitude of his intentions, for
the purity of the motives that give rise to them.


