
                   KILMORE AND KILBRIDE.                     529

rish.  Lochnell, the largest lake in the parish, and also the river
running from it, afford salmon and trout-fishing.  The sea along.
the north and west of the parish abounds with a variety of fish.
Herrings are frequently caught in Lochfeochan and Lochetive.
Different kinds of shell-fish are found on the shores.
  Navigation.--Thirteen vessels, whose United burthen is 360 tons,
belong to the port of Oban.
  Last year there was an Association formed for the improvement
of stock, and the encouragement of agriculture.

                 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.--The principal market in the parish is held at Oban,
in May and October for black-cattle, and in March and Novem-
ber for horses.  There is also a fair held four times a year at Kil-
more; but there is now very little business transacted at it.
   Harbours.--The Bay of Oban is a spacious and commodious
harbour for vessels of considerable burthen.  The Horseshoe, in
the Sound of Kerrera, and the Bay of Dunstaffnage also afford
safe and excellent anchorage for vessels of large size.
   Ecclesiastical State of the Parish (exclusive of Oban).--There
are two parish churches,-one at Kilmore, and the other at Kil-
bride, in each of which divine service is performed on alternate
Sundays, always in, Gaelic, and generally in English also.
   The church of Kilmore was built about 350 years ago.  It was
lately repaired, and now affords comfortable accommodation to,
above 350 persons.  The church of Kilbride, which was erected
at a later date, is about to be repaired, and will then contain above
300 sittings.
   The attendance in both these churches is usually good, consi-
dering that the population is scattered over a wide extent of coun-
try.  The average number of communicants is about 200.  There
are about 15 Dissenters, who are either Baptists or Independents,
and attend the places of worship belonging to these sects in Oban.
The manse, which is large and commodious, was built in 1828.
The extent of the grebe may be computed at 35 acres.  The sti.
pends are eight chalders of meal, and eight cbalders of barley,
with the usual allowance of L.8, 6s. 8d. for communication elements.
The Duke of Argyle is patron.
   Education.--In addition to two parochial schools there is one
for girls, wbich is supported by the lady of one of the proprietor,
who erected a comfortable school-house and dwelling-house for
the school mistress.
   ARGYLE.



