
                          KENNETHMONT.                        587

bringing lime and coals; and as the journey can be accomplished
in one day, farmers seldom or ever send their carts with grain or
meal to the east or north coast, as formerly.
   Means of Communication.-The roads were, until lately, bad; but
a turnpike road, intersecting the parish from east to west, was com-
pleted about six years ago, which opens up a communication between
Aberdeen, Huntly, Inverness, &c.  Two public coaches, for some
time, have run on this line of road, instead of passing by the turn-
pike road through the hills of Foudland, as formerly, although the
distance be about three miles greater.  The Kennethmont line of
road is, however, so much more level and easy than the other al-
luded to, that time is rather gained than lost by travellers coming
in this direction ; besides, as an inducement for travellers to take
the Kennethmont line of road, they pass through a fine, rich, ro-
mantic valley; by the other, they have, for many miles, nothing but
barren and bleak hills.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, since the annexation,
is not very centrically situated.  A new one was built in 1812,
capable of holding about 600.  It is neat and commodious.  The
parishioners are, in general, regular in their attendance upon reli-
gious ordinances, notwithstanding the distance of four or five miles
which some of them have to travel.  They all belong to the Es-
tablished Church, with the exception of a few families who attend
a Congregational meetinghouse in a neighbouring parish.
   The manse was built in 1794, and has lately been repaired.
The grebe consists of 12 acres of tolerably good land.  The sti-
pend at present is 4 1/4 chalders of victual, and L. 137, 14s. in
money, including allowance for communion elements.
   Education.-Although the parish school is so situated as to be
almost inaccessible, from its distance, to many of the young, yet
their parents have, at their own expense, for some years supported
two private schools in those parts of the parish most distant
from the parochial school ; which now enables every child to be-
come early acquainted (along with other useful knowledge), with
that knowledge which maketh wise unto salvation; so that it is
very rare, indeed, to find a child eight or nine years of age, that
cannot pretty distinctly read the Bible, and repeat the Assembly's
Shorter Catechism.  The emoluments of the parochial teacher
may average about L. 35 per annum, exclusive of what may be re-
ceived from the Dick Bequest.  Those of the other teachers are
from L.10 to L.15.


