
                      ST ANDREWS.                          473

of existing circumstances, cannot obtain an adequate remuneration
for their labour. Many-females who formerly had their depend-
ence oA the produce of the spinning-wheel, have, in consequence
of the very extensive introduction of spinning machinery, and the
low rate of wages for spinning, been thrown in a great measure
idle. The very reduced remuneration, also, which, for a number
of years, the manufacturers received for the produce of their la-
bours, has reduced many of them who have families to a state
bordering upon destitution. In such circumstances, it can scarce-
ly be regarded as matter of surprise, that many are far from be-
ing content with their situation, and that they are anxious for
changes by which their condition may be improved.
   The bulk of the parishioners are characterized by their regard
for the interests of morality, and by their attachment to the cause
of religion. And if there are individuals of an opposite character,
their number does not seem to exceed the average of individuals
of a corresponding description in other districts of the country.
   Proching in game is practised to a limited extent. Smuggling
was formerly carried on on an extensive scale; but for many years
past, the severity of the laws against this species of traffic, and the
strictness of the precautions which are employed to guard against
its prevalence, have almost completely put an end to the demora-
lizing practice. Pawnbroking is unknown in this district of the
country.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
    Aqriculture.-The number of standard imperial acres in the
parish, which are either cultivated.or are occasionally in tillage, is
about 9844. The number of acres which have never been cultivated,
and which are waste, or in pasture, is about 544. The number
of acres, that, with a profitable application of capital, might be
added to the cultivated land, is very considerable,--the high prices
which were obtained for grain from 1804 to 1814, having, induced
the cultivator to bring into tillage almost every acre that was fit
for thd plough. The lands that were at one period in a state of
commonty, were all divided, many years ago, among the conter-
minous proprietors, according to,the extent of their several claims.
The number of acres under wood, all of which have been planted,
is 345. The plantations seem in general to be under judicious
management.
  Rent.--The average rent of arable land the parish  is L.1,
175.,6d. per imperial acre. No. grazing of sheep or cattle per
capita prevails in this district.


