
			KILCONQUHAR.                         325

the kinds common to the country, also a great deal of game, con-
sisting of pheasants, partridges, hares, &c. Roe deer are some-
times seen in the plantations in the higher part of the parish, and
there are great quantities of rabbits. There used to be two rabbit-
wafrens, one in the St Ford Links, and one in the Grange or
Earlsferry Links, but, from the skins having fallen -so much in
price, the rabbits have been destroyed,-and the 'greater part ofthe
links have been ploughed. *
                     II.-CIVI[L HIISTORY.
Parochial Registers.-There are no printed nor manuscript
historical accounts of this parish, so far as known to the writer,
except the parochial register,-,, which commence in 1631, and have
been regularly kept ever since.
This parish originally comprehended the whole of the parish
of Elie, and the barony of St Monance. Sir William Scott of
Ardro'ss, who. was proprietor of all the lands now' constituting
the parish of Elie, got them erected into a separate parish in 1639,
he becoming bound to furnish a church for the new parish, with a
manse and glebe for the minister; and expressly stipulating, that
the stipend then allocated on his lands, and payable to the minister
of Kilconquliar, should continue to be so paid in all time coming.
The late incumbent of the parish of Elie made an attempt to
get the whole of the teinds, and. raised a process before the Court
of Session to get this agreement set aside. The heritors of Kil-
conqtihar appeared as defenders, and after some litigation the pro-
cess was dropped.
The present parish church of St Monance was a chapel in this
parish previously to the annexation of that barony to the parish of
Abercrombie in 1646.
Burgh of Earlsferry.-This burgh is very ancient. The ori-
ginal charter was destroyed by fire in Edinburgh, and its date is
not ascertained. ' A new charter was granted by Jimes VL in
1589, which commences in these words: 11 James, by the grace
of God King of the Scots, to all honest, good, and virtuou's len
of this land,, aither cleriks or laiciks, greeting, Wit ve because we
understanding the burgh of Earlsferry ofold, past tnemor ofmen,
was erected into ane free burgh, with all privileges, liberties, free-
dorns, and immunities," &c. By this charter all its privileges

<FOOTNOTE>Rookeries are encouraged here to a very hurtful extent. Crows are allowed to mul-
tiply so much as to prevent almost entirely the sowing of spring  wheat, which would
otherwise be cultivated to a considerable extent, our light soil being well adapted for
it. Wherever it is now sown, it is devoured by crows alighting in thousands upon
it, and testing up the seed just when it begins to point through the ground in spring.


