
366                          INVERNESS-SHIRE.

in this country when these were constructed. The earliest inscriptions
are dated 300 years after its foundation. They are all in
the Saxon character, and are formed on the margin of an effigy of
the deceased. On the north side of the front door, there is an impression
similar to that made by the fingers of a man's hand: and
the following legend commemorates the origin of that impression:
A report having gone abroad that a stranger from the invisible
world was paying his nightly visits to the priory, there was a general
dread of approaching it after sunset. A tailor in the neighbourhood,
engaged, however, to finish two pairs of hose in it on a
certain night, at an appointed hour. While he was husily occupied
in performing his task, there appeared before him a huge spectre,
stretching out its bony arm, and exclaiming, " See, tailor, a
great band without flesh and blood ;" to which the valiant tailor replied,
" I see that, and I sow this." The same expression was uttered
thrice, and the tailor'r, work being finished, be rose to depart,
when the spectre pursued with uplifted hand, attempting to strike
him. The hand, however, missed its aim, and struck the side of
the door, upon which it left the impression of its fingers.
   On the Muir of Ord, to the east of Beattly, there are two upright
stone pillars, nearly six feet high, commemorative of a feat
of ancient warfare, and connected, it is said, with a prophecy regarding
the extinction of the clan Mackenzie.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers of this parish extend
as far back as,the sixteenth century; but, from the irregular
manner in which they have been kept till within the last thirty or
forty years no information of importance can be derived from
them.
   Land-owner.-The landed proprietors of the parish are, the
Honourable Lord Lovat and Chisholm of Chisholm.

			 <TABLE>III-POPULATION.
   The population of the parish at the time of the, last Statistical Account was     2318
                  by the census in 1831,	                                     2709
                  of the village of Beauly,	                                      508
            Consequently the country population amounts to

The increase of population during the last thirty years has been
principally owing to the iuflux of people from other quarters	into
the village of Beauly. The native iialiabitants have increased but

<FOOTNOTE>In the house of the priests who offciated in this priory, Queen Mary, it is said,
was entertained for a night; and upon seeing in the morning the beautiful view
from its windows, she exclaimed, "C'est un bleau liaeu;" and hence the name, Beauly
was given to the village and river.


