
                        CARDROSS.                                87

the history of landed property, and the genealogies of its proprie-
tors, we might collect much to interest the lovers of such details:
but in the absence of other striking objects of antiquity, we shall
notice only the hunting-seat of King Robert Bruce, at which he
spent the close of his glorious life, and where he died of leprosy
in 1329. The wooded knoll, at the first milestone from Dum-
barton along the Cardross road, bears the name of Castlebill, al-
though there have not been any ruins visible in the memory of
persons now alive. Retiring from the cares of government, this
chivalrous monarch here sought the relaxation of the chase, va-
ried by excursionson the water, for both of which the spot was
well adapted, while it was protected by the neighbouring fort of
Dumbarton.The interest which attaches to the favotirite resi-
dence of the Bruce is enhanced by the preservation, in the ac-
counts of the high chamberlain, of many notices exhibiting the
domestic arrangements of a royal abode in 1328. These have
been  given to the public in their original form, in the appendixes
to Tytler's History of Scotland, Vol. ii. and to Pinkerton's History
Vol. ii. The following specimens will be intelligible to the gene-
ral reader : To green olive oil for painting the royal chamber,
1Os. ; to chalk for painting it, 6d.; to a clialder of lime for white-
washing it, 8s.; to tin nails and glass for the windows, 3s. 4d. ;
to seeds  for the /o1rchards is. 6d. ; to a house for the falcons, 2s. ;
to a net for fish, 40s. ; to bringing the King's great ship from
Tarbat, 28s. ; to two masts for the ships, 8s. ; to conveying Peter
the fool to Tarbart, 1s. 6d. *
   Modern Buildings.--The mansion-houses in the parish of Car-
dross do not present any remarkable features ; those of Ardoch and
Kilmahew, now abandoned, are indifferent specimens of the old
Scottish country house; that of Camis Eskan has grown, by fre-
quent additions, into a commodious residence ; those of Keppoch
and Ardmore are modern and comfortable buildings, Bloomhill
House, recently built, the seat of Alexander Ferrier, Esq. is per-
baps the most beautiful villa on the Clyde.
  Parochial Registers.--The only parochial registers are those of
births and marriages, which have been preserved since 1687.

		     III.--POPULATION.
  The increase of population from 1821 to 1831, as exhibited by

<FOOTNOTE>It is almost unnecessary to remark, that these sums are in Scottish money, being
in value one-twelfth part of the corresponding sums in the Sterling coin. The Tarbart
here meant is on Lochfyne.


