
                        KINGHORN.                          807

  Eminent  Characters.-Besides those already mentioned, the fa-
mily of Kirkcaldy of Grange-(a property now in the possession of
Colonel Fergusson of Raith, about a mile to the north-east of
Kinghorn,) demands honourable mention. It was not the extent
of their property, but tbe great force of their character and splen-
dour of their talents, which gave them such a prominent place in
the history of James V. and during the regency of the ill-fated
Mary. Sir James Kirkcaldy, who was Lord High Treasurer of
Scotland during a part of the reign of James V., was considered
one of the wisest and worthiest of the nation; and few achieve-
ments in war are more brilliant than those performed by Sir Wil-
liam Kirkcaldy, both at Stirling and Edinburgh, when, after the
battle of Langside, he espoused the side of the incarcerated Queen.
For his bolding the castle of Edinburgh (of which he was gover-
nor) so long against the regent and the force sent by Elizabeth
to reduce it, he, on surrendering, suffered death with his brother
at the market-cross of Edinburgh, August 3, 1573.
   Mr John Scryrngeour, a man remarkable for his piety and learn-
ing, was minister of Kinghorn, and was selected as chaplain to the
King in 1590, when his Majesty sent to Denmark to bring home
his Queen. He is enrolled among the Scottish Worthies on account
of his refusal to subscribe the articles of Perth, and join the modi-
fied Episcopacy, which at that time was attempted to be introdu-
eed into the Scottish nation, and for which he was deprived of his
living at Kinghorn, and obliged to retire to a small house he had
in Auchterderran, where it is supposed he spent the remainder of
his days.
   In one of the old records of this parish, the signing of the na-
tional Covenant in 1590 is inserted, and the first name to the deed
is that of Thomas Biggar, minister of the parish, and is followed in
beautiful penmanship by Johne Boswall of Balmouto, and Johne
Kirkcaldy of Grange. On an old stone, still entire in the churchyard,
which had been erected by the Sailors' Community to the memo-
ry of Mr Thomas Biggar, we find that he died in 1601, about ele-
ven years after the signing of the covenant. This is mentioned
also in the session records of that period. He was succeedod by
Mr John Moncriefe, a man also of considerable eminence during
those stormy periods of our eccelesiastical history. The accom-
plished scholar and gentlemen, the late Professor Bruce, who held
long the patent with Sir James Hunter Blair for printing the Bible

