
170                         RENFREWSHIRE.

   The narrative of this charter is illusrative of the history of the
abbacy of Paisley.  It proceeds on "the consideration of the sin-
gular devotion which his Majesty had to his glorious confessor,
St Mirrinus, and his monastery of Paisley, founded by his Ma-
jesty's most noble progenitors, (where most of the bodies of his
ancestors are buried and rest,) and on account of the singular fa-
vour and love which, his Majesty bore to the venerable father in
Christ, George Schaw, then abbot of the said monastery, a coun-
cillor, much beloved for his faithful attachment, repeatedly shown,
by the said venerable father, to the King, in times that are past;
and chiefly on account of the virtuous education and very dear
upbringing of the King's brother, James Duke of Ross, in his
tender age."  The date of this charter is 29th August 1488.
   On the 2d June 1490, a feu charter and confirmation, with an
extensive enumeration of privileges, was granted by the abbot and
convent in favour of the provost, baillies, burgesses, and commu
nity of the burgh.
   In the tenth year of his reign, and on the 3d January 1576,
King James VI. granted to the burgh a "charter de omnibus
altaragiis, capelariis, terris firmis, &c." which appears to be the
foundation of the right of patronage in the burgh first exercised
by the Abercorn and Dundonald families, and afterwards acquir-
ed by the magistrates and council from Lord Dundonald in 1733.
   It is well known that at the Reformation, towards the end of
the sixteenth century, the monasteries of Scotland were suppres-
sed, and their revenues seized by the crown, which the Govern-
ment, in most cases, effected, by concluding a bargain with the
beads of religious establishments, and prevailing with (or rather
compelling,) them to resign the same into the hands of the crown
or its donations.
    Sir Thomas Hope, who was Advocate to Charles I. and has al-
ways been regarded as a writer of most respectable authority,
states, "that on the 6th, of the ides of December 1553, John
Hamilton, natural son of James Earl of Arran, who was then, Ab-
bot of Paisley and  Bishop of Dunkeld, and afterwards Archbi-
shop of St. Andrews, with the Queen's consent, (reservatis sibi
fructibus,) resigned the abbacy, comprehending the lordship of
erection of the burgh, in favour of Lord Claud Hamilton, a child
of ten years of age, notwithstanding that it is expressed in, the
bulls of Pope Julius, that he was fourteen year old.  This Lord


