
     Of Chirnside.

1780, either enclosed, or put into an improved condition.
Knowledge and skill, in the two great departments of
farming, were gradually so promoted, that in any offer-
ed farm, whether by a first entry to it, or by a renewal
of his former lease, every farmer of ordinary under-
standing could judge of the reasonableness of the rent,
and conditions proposed to him.  What stocking was re-
quired, what expense for lime, what share might be
taken by him in the cost of enclosures, and to what ac-
count his proper management of the lands in culture,
by the plough or in pasture, might be turned, were
matters not of vague, but nearly of a just and certain
computation.  By all the principal farmers, as well as
the gentlemen, the powers of the several sorts of
ploughs, the Scotch, the English, the feathered-sock,
and the plain, the drill, and others of later invention,
were known, and such of them used as suited the dif-
ferent grounds to be laboured*.
   The cheif difficulty in the letting, and taking of land,
at the rates, to be immediately mentioned, appeared to be

     VOL. XIV. C

<FOOTNOTE>

   *In the course of the period mentioned, when numbers of new farms
were taken upon the outfield and moorlands, through the country, live
stock of every kind rose to a high value, on account of the vast demand
for them.  The yoke of oxen advanced from 10 l. and 11 l. to 15 l. and
16 l.; and the score of sheep, of the best Lammermuir breed, to about
the same sum.  The price of horses came to surpass all cenception.  Those
sufficient for the plough and cart could be bought lower than 15 l.
or 16 l.; and the saddle ones of size, bore much the same price.  This
phenomenon continued, and, in late years, grew more wonderful, by the
still greater rise of the horse-market.  It is ascribed to many of the
ablest farmers discontinuing their usual breed of horses, while they be-
stowed to much attention to the increase of their sheep and black cattle.
The west country and Irish horses, thus becoming almost the only supply
of the market, the price put upon them might be said to be whatever
the dealers in them pleaded.


