
				DUNNOTTAR.                    219

mony, marjoram sea-rocket, wood-vetch, common carline, sea
feverfew. Several species of rather rare carices are also to be
met with as, Carox distans, C. incurva, C. intermedia, C. vulpina,
and, others. Wallflower grows abundantly on the ruins of Dun-
nottar Castle, and in the neighbouring rocks, undoubtedly wild.
Henbane, a plant very rare in the north, if it be indeed indigenous,
is stated in the Northern Flora to be "plentiful near the Whigs'
vault," in the castle, but, from its being confined to a spot of pecu-
liar soil, it may be doubted whether it is to be considered a native.
Oxlip primrose (Primula elatior) occurs sparingly. A variety has
been found, having the corolla red with a yellow eye, very similar
to some varieties of the garden polyantbus.
	Plantations.--In Dunnottar, extensive plantations, chiefly on the
estate of General Forbes, comprehend all the common varieties of
hard-wooded trees, and trees of the pine and fir tribe. The
greater part is of sixty, and very little under thirty, years growth.
In general, these plantations have succeeded well, the exception
applying principally to Scotch firs in situations where there is a de-
ficiency of soil and an excess of moisture. In more favourable
situations, good timber is produced, and this more particularly
around Dunnottar House, where, notwithstanding its adjacency to
the sea, ash, elm, beech, oak, and other hard-wooded trees, spruce,
larch and Scotch fir, are healthy and thriving. On the land of
Auquhirie, in the western district, the soil seems peculiarly favour-
able to the growth of oak, ash, and beech. Some old trees of the
latter sort at the house of Auquhirie have attained a great size;
and several of them yet in exuberant foliage, which were it uptorn
by the hurricane in October 1838, sbowed marks of the growth
of more than 100 years. It is to be regretted, that the rearing of
oak had not met with more attention, as much of the ground oc-
cupied by firs has proved more adapted to the growth of that va-
luable timber.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--These, taking them in order according to the
extent of their properties are, Lieutenant-General Nathaniel
Forbes, Lady Keith-Murray, the Trustees of Donaldson's Hospital,
Robert Duff, Esq., and the Trustees of the late Lord Viscount
Keith, as superiors of the burgh of Stonehaven.
	Parochial Registers.--The records of the kirk-session com-
mence in 1693; but they contain no remarkable entries.
	Antiquities.--Among the mouldering relics of ancient Scottish


