
774                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

along the right bank of the water of Muick; then it turns west-
ward, and goes in that direction about twelve miles more, along
the south side of Muick, Loch-Muick, and Loch Dhuloch, till it
meets the parish of Braemar at Mont Cairntaggart, almost due
south from Invercauld.  A fourth range, also in Glenmuick, and
about four miles west from the church, runs northward from the
left bank of Muick, a distance of five miles, till it terminates where
a small river, called the Girnac, falls into the south side of the
Dee.
   Besides these four ranges, there are several detached hills, one
of which, named Craigandarroch, 400 yards north from the church,
is about 1400 feet; and the other, named the Cnoc, about a mile
west from the church, is about 1150 feet of elevation.
   The low and flat lands, varying from two furlongs to two miles
in breadth, lie along the banks of the Dee, the Muick, the Gairn,
and some considerable brooks and these streams, according to
their magnitude and windings, determine the width and bendings
of the valleys. The acctivities, where not too rocky or steep, are
cultivated to the height of from 100 to 200 feet above the bed of
the streams, or from 900 to 1000 feet above the level of the sea.
   There are no caves, caverns, nor fissures in these parishes
worthy of notice, except one in Culblean, in the east end of Tul-
lich.  This is an object of curiosity to strangers, and, from its re-
markable figure, is termed the Vat, to which vessel it bears a
striking resemblance.  It seems to have been formed, in the
course of ages, by the friction of pebbles whirled about by water.
It is smoothly polished, and almost circular; its diameter at the
bottom is about 12 feet, increasing gradually towards the top.  A
stream of water, which, after thaw or rain, becomes a mountain
torrent, falls into it from a height of not less than thirty feet.
There is a small outlet for the water, at the bottom, on the east
side, by which one can enter it.  The surrounding rock is gneiss.
   Hydrography.-There are no remarkable springs, but the ce-
lebrated wells Pananich in the parish of Gleumuick, on the
south side of Dee, about two miles east from the church, and on
the north side of the third range of hills, before noticed, front
which they take their name. By chemical analysis, these wells,
four in number, and all near to one another, have been found not
exactly alike in their properties, but all containing carbonates of
won and lime, with small proportions of other ingredients. They
are all chalybeate, stimulant, and tonic, of a cold temperature,


