
62                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

on the coast, laid out by the late Kilcoy, opposite the north en-
trance of the Caledonian Canal, and greatly encouraged by the
present Kilcoy.
   Means of Communication.-There is one post-office in the pa-
rish.  Carriages daily pass on the Parliamentary roads, through
the parish, with great safety,-no interruptions occurring from want
of bridges, which are all in good repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.- The minister's stipend amounts now to 15
chalders, half bear, half meal, with L. 10 for communion elements,
instead of 9 chalders and 1 boll of barley, 3 chalders and 3 bolls
of oatmeal, with L. 3, 6s. 8d. for communion elements, which it
was formerly,-making the present stipend of less value than the
former. The church was repaired about twenty years ago, when
it received an addition, which contains 250 hearers, so that the
church now holds from 700 to 800, and is in perfectly good re-
pair. There is no Government church in this parish, and neither
missionaries, seceding chapels, nor Roman Catholics. There is
one Episcopal chapel attended by 130 persons belonging to this
parish, and as many more from the neighbouring parishes. The
minister is supported by the seat rents.
   Education.-There are two established schools. The one is
parochial; and the schoolmaster's salary is L. 33, with suitable ac-
commodation; the other, commonly called Principal Baird's school,
is supported by the General Assembly's Committee. The salary
is L. 25; and there are school fees. In these schools, are taught
English reading, writing, arithmetic, and the lower Latin classics.
Besides, there are other two schools,-one taught at the Episcopal
chapel; the other an itinerating  school, supported by the farmers
who live at a distance from the parish school. The inhabitants
are sensible of the advantages they derive from these schools; but
another is very much wanted.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the former Statistical Report was given in, the face of the
parish has been greatly changed for the better, so much so that,
between agriculture and plantations of various kinds of wood, there
is scarcely an acre remaining in its natural state.
   I cannot omit mentioning a plan which Mr Mackenzie of Kilcoy
has lately adopted for the improvement of his uncultivated moors:
he has let them for thirty years at a small rent, beginning with 1s.
per acre, with an increase at the end of every seven years of 6d.


