
     of Bortbwick.

At the village of Middleton is a very good inn, with a re-
gular post-office, post-chaites, etc. and in the other quarters
of the parish are 4 ale-houses, which are by no means favour-
able either to the health or morals of the inhabitants.

   Stipend, Schools, etc.-The patron is Mr Dundas of Ar-
niston, who is also the principal heritor.  The stipend, be
sides the manse and usual appendages, is L. 100:3 :10, all
paid in money.  About 40 yards from the site of the old
one*, and entirely whithout the burying-ground, stands the 
present church, which is nearly in the centre of the parish.
It was finished in 1778, and, much to the credit of the he-
ritors, and comford of the parishioners, is neat, commodious,
and substantial.  Nothing like it, indeed, is to be seen in
this part of the country.  Part of the manse is very old;
but by the repairs which were given about 4 years ago, it
is now a good lodgeable house.  The offices, garden, gar-
den-wall, and pigeon-house, are most excellent.  The glebe
which is adjoining, consists of rather more than 12 Scotch
acres, and is enclosed.  About 7 acres is good arable land;
the rest is marshy, but improvable.-There are two schools
in the parish.  The public teacher has, as schoolmaster, 
L.5 : 3 : 5 1/2 of salary; but the heritors have thrown in his 
way several other emoluments.  As session-clerk and precen-
tor, which office is usually annexed to that of schoolmaster
in country parishes, he is allowed from the public funds
L. 1, 10 s. a-year; and for collecting the poor-rates, and
     4 K a

<FOOTNOTE>

*The old church, which was a Popish building in the form of a cross
was in May 1775 burnt to the ground.  Two of the heritors had fire-
places in it.  The day before the accident happened, the fires had been
lighted as ususal, and sufficient attention not having been paid in laying
off the coals, they gradually communicated with the wood; and on the 
following night, before it was observed, the roof had fallen in, and fearce
a vestige of timber was to be seen.


