
546                         PERTHSHIRE.

circumstance, quickly assembled his followers from Rannoch,
Strath-Tummel, and Athole; concealed them near the east side
of, Erochd, that he might seize the first opportunity to attack
the invaders; and, wishing to ascertain as well as possible their
numbers and strength, disguised himself as a beggar, and got into
the very heart of their camp. The Lorn men anxiously inquired
of him concerning the number of the army opposed to them, and
Donnacha Reamhar's personal prowess. They were answered that
he was allowed by those who knew him to be a very cruel man; but
he hoped they would have him soon in their power. Duncan hav-
ing now obtained his desire, and not wishing to remain any longer
surrounded by inquiring crowds of enemies, endeavoured slowly to
withdraw to the outside, which raised the suspicio ns of the invaders
that their new acquaintance was either a real spy, or even Don-
nacha Reamhar himself; and immediately they commenced a keen
pursuit. But the Rannoch hero soon distanced them all except one,
on whom he turned with all his fury, despatching him before his
countrymen could come up to his rescue; then, redoubling his ex-
ertions and speed, be came to the Erochd, which he cleared by one
spring, and his pursuers were obliged to stop short. Afterwards,
with his men, recrossing the river, he came upon the Lorn men
almost unawares. They, however, made a noble and determined
stand; but after a dreadful conflict, in which many were slain,
they were completely overpowered, and a great many taken pri-
soners; among whom was the Chief of Lorn himself, who, for some
time thereafter, was confined in the artificial island of Loch Ran-
noch, but was afterwards amicably released.
   About a century later, a severe conflict took place on the farm
of Dunan Rannoch. The hostile parties were the Stewarts of Ap-
pin, Argyleshire, and a tribe inhabiting, at that time, the head of
Rannoch, called Clann Jain Bhuidhe, (the children or descendants
of John of the yellow hair.) The cause was this,-Two pedlars of
the Stewarts of Appin went to Perth for goods, and, upon their re-
turn home by Rannoch, were robbed or killed by Clann Jain
Bhuidhe. As soon as tidings reached Argyleshire, the Chief of
Appin gathered his clan, and marcbed hlmediately to Perthshire.
The first night, he rested his men upon the confines of Rannoch,
where he observed at some distance a habitation with some flocks
and herds. This belonged to one of the M'Gregors of Roro Glen-
lyon, who, for some fault, was banished that district by the rest of
the clan. Stewart sent him a polite message, requesting some re-


