
     Statistical Account

the living, exclusive of the manse and glebe, has, for some
years past been considered, at an average, to be about 80 L.
The church was rebuilt in the year 1775, and is considered
as very neat for a country church.  The manse, at present,
is out of repair.-Mr John M'Arbrea, the parish school-mas-
ter, teaches English, Latin, writhing, arithmetic, etc. and is
much respected.  His fixed salary is only 100 L. Scotch, but
he draws the interest of 560 merks Scotch, of sunk money,
besides perquisites, as precentor and session clerk,++ etc.-The
poor upon the roll, are supported by the public collections
on sabbath, and the interest of several sums of money,
sunk by different persons+ for that purpose.  They re-
ceive their stated allowance monthly, which amounts to about
17 L. Sterling per annum; besides occasional supplies persons
or families in distress, which amount to about 4 L. or 5 L.
Sterling more.  There have been no beggars in this parish
in the memory of man.

<FOOTNOTE>

and Dame AGNES DOUGLAS, Countess of Argyll, reserving only Castle-
Campbell, and two farms in the neighbourhood.

++The schoolmasters, established in this parish, have, from time immemo-
rial, been men of a liberal education, and several men of eminence have been
taught at this school.  Many of Mr M'ARBREA'S scholars fill respectable
places in the church, both in the establishment and the secession.  The school
was erected in the reign of King CHARLES I. as appears from the decrect of
locality, dated 1640, for 100 merks Scotch.  In 1766, the heritors added 50
merks.  The above 500 merks were sunk by one ARCHIBALD PATERSON,
merchant in Edinburgh July 18, 1652; and the other 60 by one KIRK, in
Dollar.

+Mr JOHN GRAY was ordained in the year 1709.  He was the first that was
settled in this parish after the Revolution.  He was commonly stiled the Baron;
from his having, while minister here, purchased two baronies of land: First,
that of Teasses in Fyfe, for which he paid upwards of 3,333 L. Sterling.  Af-
terwards he purchased the barony of Fossoway, in Perthshire, for which he


