
                           TARVES.                             671

across the horses' backs.  Carts and wheel-carriages were only to
be found in the possession of landed proprietors.
   The improvements introduced by the land-owners towards the
conclusion of the last century were at first but slowly adopted by
the tenantry.  Depressed by bad seasons, and deficient in capital,
they had neither the courage nor the means to attempt expensive
innovations.  The rise, however, in the price of agricultural pro-
duce which succeeded the breaking otit of the war between this
country and revolutionary France, by increasing the capital of the
farmers, enabled them to take advantage of the more decided and
valuable improvements.  Draining, enclosing, a better system of
cropping, superior agricultural implements, and the application of
the great stimulant, lime, became general, and from this period
the progress of improvement was extremely rapid.  Besides the
profits realized by the new system of husbandry, an additional sti-
mulus was given to the exertions of the tenantry by the abolition
of thlrlage to particular mills, and of the pernicious practice of
taking grassums on the renewal of leases, and by the letting of
farms for periods of nineteen years on favourable terms for the oc-
cupiers.  Through the industry of the tenantry, and the encou-
ragement afforded by the landlords, the parish is now in a highly
cultivated and productive state.  The extent of arable land is at
present at least double, and the amount of produce more than
tenfold, what they were a few years before the former Account of
this parish was drawn up.
   The rotation of crops is adapted to that species of soil in which
turnips can be most profitably raised.  The land according to its
quality is worked on a five, six, or seven years course.  In the
five years course, the crops succeed each other as follows: 1. Tur-
nips; 2. bear, barley, or oats, with grass seeds; 3. pasture or hay;
4. pasture ; 5. oats.  In the six course, the land is pastured three
years; and in the seven, two crops of oats are taken after three of
pasture.  The crofts and small possessions are generally worked
on the five course, the more extensive farms on the six or seven.
The six appears now to be most approved.
   The sowing of turnips, mostly of the yellow kinds, with a por-
tion of Swedes, commences in the end of May or very early in
June, and by the 20th of the latter month is usually completed.
From one-fifth to one-seventh of the arable land is under turnips
annually, deducting a comparatively insignificant extent for pota-
toes, which are raised almost solely for the consumption of the in-


