
282                   PERTHSHIRE.

   The parish produces wheat, barley, oats, pease, potatoes,
turnips, sown and pasture grass.  It supports itself with all kinds
of grain, independent of considerable quantities which are sold,
and there are more than 1200 acres of wood, consisting of larch,
Scotch fir, oak, &c.  These woods abound with all sorts of game,
such as hares, rabbits, pheasants, black-cock, partridges, wood-
cock, snipes; and roe-deer, foxes, otters, badgers, and wild-duck.
   Marl is found in different parts, with large beds of freestone and
grey slate, which are quarried with little difficulty.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-James Blair Oliphant, Esq. of Gask, is the chief
proprietor in the parish.  His ancestors for many generations have
resided on the property.  His house is a large substantial building,
drected in the beginning of the present century.  In its vicinity are
many large and beautiful old trees.  A small portion of land to the
east belongs to the Earl of Kinnoul, who, along with Mr Oliphant,
is the only other heritor in the parish.
   Antiquities.-The Roman causeway, which extends through the
parish, on the highest ground, is 20 feet broad, composed of rough
stones, closely laid together. It points west to a Roman camp still
distinguishable in the parish of Muthil, near the Chapel of Ease,
at Ardocb, and east to another camp in the parish of Scone.  By
the side of this causeway, Roman stations are still visible, capable
of containing from twelve to twenty men.  They are enclosed by
ditches, which are very distinct.  Within Gask's policy, vestiges of
two-camps may still be traced, one on the south side, the other
north of the Roman road or street, as it is called by the inhabitants.
A few years ago, on one of these Roman stations, north of the
causeway, a number of human bones were dug up, all entire, par-
ticularly two skulls.  The place from time immemorial has been
called the Witch Know, and the traditionary account is, that witches
were burned there, and, as vestiges of coal-cinders are to be seen,
the probability is that some people were put to death on that emi-
nence.  In the same place was lately found a small urn, of coarse
workmanship, which would contain about three English pints. It
was about two feet and a half below the surface.
   Eminent Men.-Two individuals belonged to this parish, who
have risen to high honours in the church,-the late Principal
Taylor of Glasgow College, and Dr Stewart, minister of the parish
of Newburgh, in Fife.  More recently, a native of this parish, Mr


