
	               ABERDEEN.                             89

supply of medicines and medical attendance to such of the sick
poor of Aberdeen and the suburbs thereof as are not fit objects to
be received into the Infirmary." It was agreed that this money
should be paid over to the funds of the General Dispensary, on
condition of that institution affording the necessary attendance
and medicines to those persons belonging to the town a. d suburbs
who used to be supplied as out-patients at the Infirmary.  Those
persons who reside in the country are still received and attended,
as formerly, as out-patients.
   Dispensaries.-The practice of giving advice and medicines at
the Infirmary to persons who could not be received into the house
necessarily began almost from the very commencement of that in-
stitution, and it was probably not very long after, that persons be-
gan to be received as out-patients who had no wish to be admit-
ted.  No separate account, however, of these cases appears to have
been kept until the year 1764, when the number of out-patients was
1332, and from that time they went on increasing, and thus en-
tailing a heavy additional duty on the medical attendants, and
causing a considerable expense to the house.
   In 1781, in consequence.  of a memorial presented to the ma-
nagers of the Infirmary, they resolved to institute a Dispensary
in connection with the Infirmary,-(at first as an experiment for
one year, but afterwards they continued it by an annual vote,)-a
part of the expense being borne by the Infirmary, and the rest de-
frayed by subscriptions.  This source of income having declined,
however, the new institution became more burdensome to the In-
firmary, and it was deemed necessary to take steps for reviving the
interest of the public in the Dispensary by making collections at
churches, &c., and, at the same time, to withdraw the aid which it
bad hitherto received from the funds of the Infirmary.  In , l788,
the managers of the Infirmary agreed to defray the expense of the
medicines used in the Dispensary, provided the sum necessary to,
meet the salary of the physician were raised by subscription ; but
two years after, they again deemed it necessary to disunite the Dis-
pensary from the Infirmary altogether.  Subsequently to this time,
as the population of the town increased, other institutions with
the same benevolent design of providing advice and medicines for
the, sick poor at their own houses, were successively established, to
the number of five,-three of which embraced the city generally,
while the other two were chiefly intended for the districts of Fut-
tie and Gileomston.
   In 1823, these five were incorporated into one, called the Ge-


