
     Statistical Account

great variety of proprietors.  The valued rent of the whole
is, 7874 L. 3 s. 2 d. Scotch, The real rent abstracting from
the houses and gardens in the town, is probably between
8,000 L. and 9,000 L. Sterling.  The number of Scottish acres,
under culture, is about 3,400, and in plantation, about 300.
The principal estates in the parish are those of Dudhope, with
the other lands belonging to Lord Douglas, Craigie, Drum-
geith, Baldovie, Pitkerro, Duntroon, Clepingtown, Wallace,
Blackness, Upper Dudhope, Logie, and Balgay.  None of
these except the Duntroon and Douglas estates, have been
above 100 years in possession of the family of its present pro-
prietors.  In most of the others, the property has been fluc-
tuating; and, the average term of possession is rated suffici-
ently high at 20 years.  Logie, Blackness, and Balgay, are
said to be in the parish, only quoad sacra.

   Situation of the Town.-From the south side of Balgay Hill,
a small stream springs, which, running eastward, is joined by
another on the west side of the Law; and both together conti-
nue their course south east, through a narrow low ground,

<FOOTNOTE>

run from the higher ridge; and on the north, and also partly on the east, ano-
ther of them, the Burn of Murroes, is the boundary which separates it from
Murroes, and Moneysieth.  The parish however, is not mountainous, for the
Law of Dundee, the higher hill in the whole range, is only 525 feet above the
level of the Tay.  Balgay Hill, to the west of the Law, is considerably lower;
and the ground of Craigie, to the east of it, excepting at one point, is a gently
rising bank.  The appearance of the country is beautiful, particularly the south
slope of all the grounds towards the Tay, the south slope of Duntroon Hill to-
wards Fiethy, and the bottom where Dighty and Fiethy meet, and where they
are soon after joined by the Burn of Murroes.  Balgay Hill, besides its beautiful
form, is covered with a thriving plantation of various trees; and the Law of
Dundee, rising gently from some low grounds behind the town, is cultivated
through its whole ascent, till at last it shoots into a round, green, and uncom-
monly pleasing summit.


