
124                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

                      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication, &c.--There is no weekly market-
town in the parish. The nearest place of that description, with
which a regular intercourse is kept up, is Montrose, twelve miles
distant. The only village is Fettercairn, which is a burgh of ba-
rony on the estate of Fettercairn. There are two fairs held in it
annually, the one at Whitsunday and the other at Martinmas. It
has a post-office, at which a foot-post daily arrives with mails from
Montrose, about half-past eight o'clock A.M., and from which he
departs at two o'clock P. M. A carrier travels to Montrose every
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and to Aberdeen every second
Tuesday. A stage-coach runs between Aberdeen and Dundee
through the parish each day except Sunday, starting, from Dundee
at seven, and from Aberdeen at half-past ten o'clock every morn-
ing, and passing through Forfar, Brechin, Slateford, Fettercairn,
Auchinblae, Drumlithie, and Stonehaven. There is no turnpike-
road in the parish; but commutation roads traverse it in various
directions, which, together with bridges and fences, are well at-
tended to, and generally kept in good condition.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is not conveniently si-
tuated for many of the parishioners, being placed near the north-
east extremity of the parish, and five miles distant from some of
the inhabitants towards the south-west. It was built in 1804 to
contain 800 sitters, but it can accommodate considerably more, and
is in good repair. The sittings are all attached to the land except
those provided for the minister and elders, and are therefore free
only to the tenant.
	The following benefactions were left, at different times, to the
poor, by benevolent persons in their latter wills, viz.  L.500, by Dr
Ramsay of Barbadoes; L.50, by Provost Christie of Montrose;
200 merks Scotch, by James Black, the builder of the original
Gannachy Bridge, formerly mentioned; L. 20 by George Cooper,
late merchant in Slateford; L. 50, by R. Valentine, late tenant in
Bogindollo; and L.19, 19s. 11d., by Anthony Glen, late manu-
facturer in Luthermuir; several hundred pounds, in houses and
other property, were left by James Smith, late manufacturer in
Fettercairn, to be under the management of certain trustees, for
behoof of indigent persons not upon the regular poor's roll.
	The manse was built in 1774, and repaired and enlarged in
1822. The glebe is about six Scotch acres of extent, is good al-
luvial soil, and worth about L.3 per acre per annum. The sti-


