
                          LOCHWINNOCH.                        111

   Inns.-There are 24 inns in this parish, which are too many and
do an incalculable amount of mischief without being balanced  by
almost any good.  The institution of temperance societies led to an
inquiry into the quantity of ardent spirits and other liquors used
here, and the melancholy and astounding fact was forced upon us,
that in this, as in the neighbouring parishes, three or four times
more money is expended in this manner than is required to support
both our churches and schools, and all our charitable and religious
institutions.
   Fuel.-It has already been remarked that there are two coal-
pits in the parish,-one in its eastern, and the other in its western
extremity.  There was one lately in its centre, near the village of
Lochwinnoch, and there are beds of coal in various other places.
Quarrelton is only a mile or two beyond our eastern boundary,
where there is one of the most remarkable beds of coal in Great
Britain, if not in Europe and there are coal-pits equally numerous
and valuable in the opposite direction, beyond our western bound-
ary.  A load of coals is sold at 7d., eight of which make an ordinary
cart.  The proprietors and farmers in the eastern, and more
especially the western, extremity of the parish burn turf, but coal is
most generally used throughout the parish.

                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The changes in this parish since the last Statistical Account
was written, have been rather progressive than sudden or remark-
able. There has been a departure, if it be not an advancement,
from a simple and more primitive state of society.  The popula-
tion is almost doubled, and though this increase has been chiefly in
the manufacturing population, yet the country part of the parish is
much changed.  The farm-houses and lands are much improved.
They are enclosed with hedges, and have every advantage from
roads.  There is more wealth and external comfort; but I fear
there is also more vanity and luxury, and, perhaps immorality and
crime.  At the same time, while one class of a larger population
tempt to the commission of evil, another class "provokes to love
and good works."  There are now far more exertions made to pro-
mote the intellectual and spiritual improvement of the inhabitants,
and therefore there is more intelligence and zeal than was forty
years ago.
   I do not pretend to understand the best system of husbandry
but have received the following hints from an intelligent persons, a
native of the parish, who has the management of an extensive dis-
trict.


