
     of Forfar.

plough.  The number of weavers in the country in 1791 was
155.
   The mode of cultivation after ley is, in general 1st, a crop of
oats; 2dly, lint or oats; 3dly, barley with dung, 4thly, turnips
or some other green crop; and 5thly, barley with grass feeds,
which remain four or five years under hay and pasture.  This
practice differs, however, with soil and season and other cir-
cumstances, and can hardly be observed by the tacksmen of
small pendicles, though every one of them has a part of his
small possession in grass, turnips and potatoes, which last is
much cultivated throughout all the parish, and forms an excelelnt
succedaneum for meal and a standing dish on the tables of
the rich and the poor.
   The lands in general will yield from the fifth to the seventh
return.  Harvest is seldom reaped within three months after
sowing, and in some years, particularly in the south part of the
parish, which is very wet, it is much later.  Agriculture,
however, in its improvements, is keeping pace in this part of
the country with manufactures.  The fields are regularly laid
out, inclosures are multiplying, and rents are double and tre-
ble what they were twenty or thirty years ago.  One farm in
particular, which let for a lease of 30 years at about L. 50, has
lately been let at between L. 300 and L. 400, and is still
thought a good bargain*.

     3 X 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*On some of the estates in the parish, the exaction of bondage-service is
still in use; and besides the stipulated rent in money or grain, some tenants
pay poultry and pigs, and must leave their own work at the landlord's call, to
assist in ploughing, harrowing, cutting the corn, casting peats, driving coal and
other demands and carriages, in hay time and harvest, and at any other time of
the year.  This is indeed agreable to bargain, and the number of these ser-
vices is usually specified and valued in the leases; but they are generally as un-
popular as impolitic, and accordingly begin to be omitted in new contracts of
lease.  Most thulage also exists in this parish and is considered as a grievance.
   About 60 years ago, a principal farm servant might have been had for 35 s.


