
          108                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          They seldom drink to excess, and drunken brawls are rare.  They
          are regular in their attendance on divine worship; and it may safely
          be said that there is scarcely a family in the whole parish in which
          family devotion is not maintained morning and evening.  With
          all this, there is not much vital Christianity; a sort of rigid,
          cold morality is the characteristic of their religion.  The people
          generally live comfortably, considering their station.  They have
          bread, potatoes, milk, butter and cheese, and many of thdm ani-
          mal food; and for the most part they are cheerful and contented,
          and particularly kind to the poor.  If any thing can be particu-
          larized as unfavourable in their character, it is, that they are pos-
          sessed of their full share of that sly, low cunning which is so com-
          mon among Highlanders.  The houses are generally built like
          those of their ancestors; but there are a good many stone and lime
          houses building now.  They retain the dirty habit of having the
          dunghill before the door,-a habit which it seems impossible to
          cure.  Poaching is little known; and the game laws are very
          strict, and readily put in force against offenders.  The fishing of
          the streams is not prevented by the proprietors, and, indeed, is scarce-
          ly worth the prohibiting,-as they are non-resident, and the num-
          ber of fish killed can have little effect upon the fishing.  Killing the
          fish by torch light, at spawning time, is, however, much practised,
          and is most injurious to the fishing, as they are then in shallow water,
          and utterly helpless.  Smuggling prevails to a considerable extent,
          especially in winter; but it has not been found to be accompanied
          by those heinous effects which have accompanied it in many pl`ces.
          They merely resort to it as a more profitable method of getting
          quit of their barley, than selling it in raw grain; and, in fact, it is
          not looked upon as a breach of the law.  The people have strong
          prejudices against medical advice; and often require the sanction
          of their minister before they take such medicines as are prescribed.
          There is an Infirmary at Inverness for affording medical relief to
          the poor; but this, although often of great benefit, is only used in
          extreme cases, and even then with great reluctance.  The people
          themselves have little medical knowledge, and whether for a fever
          or a cold, or consumption, or a pleurisy, whisky is the universal an-
          tidote.  Within the last year or two, they are improving in this
          respect; but their prejudices, although shaken, are far from being
          removed.
                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
             This parish is wholly agricultural, so that the whole males are


