
72                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

denominated the Lennox hills, stretch along the whole of the nor-
thern boundary of the parish. The Earl's Seat, the highest point,
is 1400 feet above the level of the sea. The approach to the strath
from the south is uncommonly romantic and enchanting. After
proceeding for three miles along a road over rising-ground, where
rocks and heath confine the labours of the husbandman, and seem
to form the boundary of cultivation, the valley unexpectedly
bursts upon the view of the traveller, and continues to unfold its
beauties as he advances. The grassy hills with their varied glens,
streams, and acclivities, rise before him to the elevation of 1300
or 1400 feet. On the west, the conical hill of Dungoiach, 400
feet high, clothed with wood to the summit, contrasts nobly with
the bare and desolate hill of Dunglass, 400 feet in height, which
terminates the valley on the east. The sequestered seats of the
gentry embosomed with wood; the comfortable homesteads of the
farmers, with the neat cottages of the artisans; the lofty sheep-
walks; the undulating surface of the valley, under its varied crops
or agricultural processes; the roots of the mountains, in some
places, sloping on to the banks of the Blane, and, in others, re-
tiring to a distance; with a profusion of wood of every age and
size,-give an idea of the magnificence of nature, adorned by the
taste and industry of man, which is seldom seen and never sur-
passed, even in this country.
  On the south side of the strath, and from 300 to 400 feet above
the level of the sea, there is a stretch of tableland two miles wide,
which runs across, the whole breadth of the parish. This land
was originally wild and moorish; but now, almost every part of it
capable of improvement has been brought under cultivation.
  The vale of the Blane, running from the south-east to the
north-west, passes into the vale of Campsie on the east, and the
vale of the Enrick on the west. The highest part of this valley
is understood to be about 340 feet above the level of the sea, and
the lowest part, 100.
  The temperature and pressure of the atmosphere, together with
the quantity of rain, may be estimated from the following abstract
of the meteorological register at Carbeth, from daily observations
with the barometer, thermometer, and rain-gage, at 10 A. m.
Latitude, 55&deg; 59', 46"; longitude, 4&deg; 21', 20" west. This ab-
stract has been kindly furnished by William Smith, Esq. of Car-
beth-Guthrie.


