
300                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

comforts and advantages of civilized life, and are contented with
their situation and circumstances. The duties of morality and
religion are, on the whole, scrupulously practised; and instances of
crime or gross immorality are very rare. The people are, in general,
intelligent, given to reading, and exert themselves to give the
best education to their children. A very considerable number of
young men, (many of them humble origin,) have during the
last fifty years, after having received a good education, left the
parish in order to push their fortunes in England, or abroad, and
have, by their excellent conduct and success in life, done honour
to the early advantages which they enjoyed. Perhaps no teacher,
in a comparatively remote parish, has educated a greater number
of such enterprising and respectable persons than Mr John Arm-
strong, who, a few years before his death, which took place in
1841, retired from his situation as parochial schoolmaster, which
he had filled with honour to himself and advantage to the commu-
nity upwards of forty years, and whom his old scholars have ever
regarded with gratitude and affection, both for his eminent talents
and the blandness of his manners. But while so many Girtho-
nians have distinguished themselves in the way to which we have
referred, the parish has not, till comparatively recent times, pro -
duced any who have prosecuted any of the learned professions.
The writer of this account knows of only one instance in the last
century, of a native of Girthon having attended a Scotch uni-
versity; but within the last thirty years, no fewer than eight per-
sons, natives of the parish, (all educated by Mr Armstrong, ex-
cept one,) have studied at the University of Edinburgh. Of these,
two are dead, one is in the United States of America, and another
is still undergoing his studies: the remaining four are settled in
life in Scotland.
	Poaching is very strictly prohibited by the proprietor of the pa-
rish; but when game so much abounds, it is hardly possible to
eradicate so demoralizing a practice. Smuggling of tea, ardent
spirits, wine, and other articles, from the Ise of Man, systemati-
cally prevailed here, (as it did along the whole Galloway coast,)
to a very qreat extent, about fifty years ago; but such a charac-
ter as a smuggler does not now exist; though many traditions as
to exploits in this way are still current. Pawnbroking has never
obtained in the parish.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	The total number of imperial acres in the parish is 15,480; of


