
           636                        PERTHSHIRE.

           cannot be said to have any evil effect upon the morals of the
           people.
              Fuel.-Among the poorer classes a good deal of wood is used,
           which is procured from the periodical thinnings and fellings in the
           parish and neighbourhood.  Coal, however, is generally used, part-
           ly from the south coast of Fife, and partly from Newcastle, and
           being landed at the parish pier, is secured at a moderate rate-
           15s per ton for Scots, and 16s. 6d. per ton for English.

                             MISCELLANEUOS OBSERVATIONS.
              The more striking variations betwixt the present state of the pa-
           rish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Ac-
           count are, its enlargement by the making up and embanking of
           new lands on the river side; its more complete drainage, the
           fields in general not only being pervaded by furrow drains, but
           every bog and morass being dried, so that there is not a single fall of
           ground in the parish, with the exception of what is under wood,
           that is not fitted for bearing grain,-and the improved means of com-
           lunication from one part of it to another by good roads.  The
           feeling among the farmers with regard to the adoption of new
           modes of cultivation, and supposed improvements in agriculture,
           has also considerably changed.  Prejudices in behalf of the olden
           ways and plans haire greatly abated, and whether it be by giving a
           fair trial to methods of culture, which would in former times have
           been despised, or to new varieties of grain, which once would have
           been rejected, the farmers are now showing that they have sense,
           and are reaping their reward.  With regard to the improvements
           of which the parish is still susceptible by a better system of hus-
           bandry, there cannot be much said; but certainly for many years
           past there has been a far larger proportion of wheat sown than is
           consistent with Justice to the soil ; and the writer of this account
           is persuaded, from his own observation and experience, that, if the
           agriculturists of this parish and of the Carse of Gowrie in general,
           would adopt a system of cropping by which they should not have
           wheat oftener than once every four years, they would be gainers
           in the end.

              January 1839.


