
         PARISH OF MONIFIETH.

 PRESBYTERY OF DUNDEE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

			THE REV. SAMUEL MILLER, MINISTER.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Boundaries, &c.-Monifieth, anciently written Monie-
fuith, Monefuit, and Monefut, is a word of Celtic origin, signify-
ing "the moss of the stag." This name must have been descrip-
tive in former time; for though there is now no "moss," the
sandy linds along the frith cover a deep stratum of it, in which
deer's horns have been dug up in considerable numbers: and
here, according to tradition, David I. had a favourite hunting-seat.
	The parish is of an irregular oblong shape, stretching from
south to north-the length being about 5 miles, and the breadth
varying from 1 1/2 to 3 1/2; and containing about 9 square miles. It
is bounded on the south by the Frith of Tay; on the east, by the
parishes of Barry and Monikie; on the north, by Monikie; and
on the west, by Murroes and Dundee. The parish slopes gradu-
ally up from the Tay to its northern extremity, being intersected
in the middle by a range of inconsiderable eminences, partly cul-
tivated and partly planted. The highest eminence is at the
northern extremity, 500 feet above the level of the sea. The
extent of coast is about 3 1/2 miles; it is low and sandy, and the sea
is, year by year, making inroads upon it, owing to the double ef-
fect of the winds blowing away the sand and raising the tide.
  Climate, &c.-The climate towads the south is so mild and
uniform as to be cnnsidered one of the most agreeable in Forfar-
shire; and the earliness of the crops is always conspicuous. This
district is also peculiarly healthful. Epidemic diseases seldom rage
in it, and many of the inhabitants attain to very advanced age.
The climate of the northern district is much colder, owing to its
greater elevation and the nature of the soil. The stream of the
Dighty, after intersecting the parish towards the west, disembogues
into the Tay. Although of no great size, it is valuable on account


