
256			  AYRSHIRE.

term. The probability is, that these sovereigns, in passing to and
from Dundonald in Kyle, and Rothesay in Bute, had been in use
to cross the channel at this point, and may occasionally, as cir-
cumstances or inclinations suggested, have prolonged their stay a
little at this convinient station. Contemplating the narrow walls
of this seat-beat tower, it is certainly difficult to conceive it should
ever have afforded accomodation to the prestige of a royal court;
yet when we reflect on the circumscribed nature of even Dundon-
ald itself, the favourite residense of these same sovereigns, the
contrast by no means appears so very extraordinary. *
	7. The last of these "baronies" is the estate of Hunderston,
the property of Mrs Hunter of HUntherston; and which is the
only portion of the parish which has remained unalienated from
ancient times. Crawfurd, the author of the Peerage, states, that
this family have had "at least a part of the estate they still pos-
sess as far back as the reign of King Alexander II." However
this may be, it is clear that this family are very ancient possessors
here; for from the records of the Great Seal it appears, that Wil-
liam Hunter of Hunterston obtained a confirmation of the lands
of Campbelton, part of Ardneil adjoining, so early as the time of
Robert II., and which lands still remain in the family. The ori-
ginal mansion-house of Hunterston, part of which consists of a
square tower, evidently of ancient construction, though of very li-
mited dimensions, is still habitable, being occupied as a farm-
house; a handsome new mansion having been erected by the pro-
prietor about thirty years ago, a little way nearer the sea. The
old fortlet occupied originally a narrow tongue of land jutting into
a deep morass, which of course constituted its security from ex-
ternal agression. But whilst modern improvements have turned
the bos into fruitful fields, the little "lonely tower" has thus
from time to time been added to this olde dwelling, and which,
being closely environed by aged trees, has altogether a very antique
and pricturesque appearance.
	The whole of these properties, with the exception of Kilbride
and Carlung, which have been parcelled out as before noticed, are
now, it is understood, under the fetters of strict entails, all of com-
paratively recent date. For notwithstanding the pernicious effects

<FOOTNOTE>In an inventory of the effects whithin the fortalice of Portincross, taken in 1621,
it appears inter alia to have contained "ten fedder beddis," with their furnishings,
which is so far illustrative of the manners of those times; for it is clear two or three
of these must have belonged to each chamber.


