
370                          AYRSHIRE.

ment in recent agriculture, and which promises, above all other
things, to compensate for lowness of price by increase of produce.
	The actual rental of the parish amounts to nearly L. 19,000,
making the average rent per acre between 18s. and 19s. Leases
are of nineteen years length. With the exception of a few farms,
ranging from 200 to 1000 acres, where the farm-houses are com-
modious and comfortable, and the offices substantial and exten-
sive, the greater number of the farms are small, many from only
40 to 100 acres; and these, which are generally cultivated by the
farmer and his family, who work hard and live plainly, have, with
few exceptions, very poor accommodations, both in dvelling-houses
and offices.
	Gross Amount of Raw  Produce.--It is extremely difficult to get
accurate returns under this head; but the following results are
taken from reports procured from each of the farmers, and are,
I have no doubt, near to the truth. The prices were calculated at
about the average of the last three years.

<TABLE>
	Wheat,						L. 10,510
	Oats,						     9946
	Beans,					 	     1392
	Barley,						      219
	Potatoes					     6257
	Turnips,					     5202
	Cultivated bay,					     4013
	Meadow bay,					      563
	Pasture,					     9100
							 ---------
                  					 L. 47,202

	There are besides small quantities of beet; about L. 300 per
annum for orchards and garden ground; about L. 50 per annum
for wood.
	There is a salmon fishery at the mouth of the Doon, of which
a notice will be found in the account of the parish of Ayr.
	At Dunure there is also a small sea-fishing establishment, but
with respect to the fish taken there, and their appearances on our
coasts, I have also to refer to the account of the parish of Ayr.
	Live-Stock.--The breed of cattle is almost exclusively the Ayr-
shire, which has attained so much celebrity for the purposes of the
dairy, and which seems also well adapted for the butcher-market. An
attempt has been recently made to introduce the short-horned breed
for the latter purpose, and I have seen very fine animals of that spe-
cies, and also of the cross between it and the Ayrshire, and which
both attained to a much greater weight than the native cattle ever
reach. On inquiry, however, I found that such had uniformly re-
quired a great deal of extra feeding, and I have little doubt that


