
                    MAYBOLE.                  363

had become already strongly prejudiced, and whom he had sub-
jected to rigorous imprisonment, were brought to the Bar, pro-
nounced guilty, and executed amid general execration. The pub-
lic feeling on this occasion is not less illustrative of the charac-
ter of the times than the leniency with which such deeds as the
slaughter of Bargany were viewed. The chivalry and pride of fa-
mily feuds threw a splendour over the latter, in which their crimi-
nality was forgotten; while in the former ease, the absence of all
such garniture permitted the natural horror, which cold and deli-
berate murder excites in the human breast, to come into its full
operation.
	The ruins of the Castle of Aucbendrane are still to be traced
on the banks of the Doon, near to Monkwood Bridge, on the low
road from Ayr to Maybole; but the lart of the family of the
Mures long ago died in circumstances of the greatest poverty.
The judgments of Heaven have, indeed, in their case, been visibly
and awfully displayed. One after another perished in meanness
and marked disgrace, and their, lands passed into the hands of
others. *
	Eminent Characters.--Dr Macknight, the author of many stan-
dard works, was admitted minister of Maybole in the year 1753;
and while he discharged the duties of the parish most con-
scientiously, and with great acceptance, for sixteen years, he also
published during that time the "Harmony," and the "Truth
of, the Gospel Histories," the former in 1756, and the latter in
1763.
	He was succeeded by Dr Wright, who was also held in great
estimation, and who published a volume of sermons.
  The late Lord Alloway, so distinguished as a Judge in the Court
of Session, resided during the vacations at Blairston, on the banks
of the Doon, and took much delight in beautifying a place of great
natural amenity. He was held in high estimation by all ranks in
the parish.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, The Marquis of
Ailsa; T. F. Kennedy of Dunure; Sir James Fergusson of Kil-
kerran; Elias Cathcart of Auchendrane; Quentin Kennedy of
Drummellan; Sir David  Hunter Blair; W. Craufurd of Doon-
side; George M. Torrance, Grange; John Fergusson of Monk-
wood.

<FOOTNOTE>Pitcairn's Crhminal Trials.--Sir W. Scott's Introduction to the Tragedy of
Auchendrane, and the Historie of the Kennedys.


