
<APPENDIX>

   In addition to these general Circular Letter, the following were sent,
   at different times, to several of the Clergy.

   No. XVII.  Letter written to some of the most active Members in the
   different Presbyteries, 21st August 1790.

     SIR,

   I hope that you have received a circular letter, I had the honour of wri
ting to the Clergy of the Church of Scotland, inclosing some Statisti-
cal Queries.  I need not attempt to explain to you the importance of such
investigations, and the many public advantages which may be derived from
them.  But as they may stand some chance of being neglected, unless some
of the active members in the different Presbyteries, take a charge of them,
correspond with their brethren upon the subject, and recommend them, at
the different meetings of the Church, to their attention, I take the liberty
of requesting that favour at your hands, which will greatly oblige, Sir,
your very obedient, humble servant,

     JOHN SINCLAIR.

     EDINBURGH,
     21st Aug. 1790

   N. B. I beg to add, that however desirable it might be, to receive an
swers to every query, yet, it cannot be expected, that the Clergy should uni-
versally take that trouble, though the more information that is sent, the
better, and the more acceptable.

   No XVIII.  Circular Letter to the Clergy, who had not acknow
   ledged the Receipt of any preceding Communication, 2d April
   1793.

     SIR,

   I have infinite pleasure in acquainting you, that the Statistical returns
from the Clergy are now coming in so rapidly, that I have every reason
to hope, there will be hardly a deficient parish against the meeting of
the ensuing General Assembly.  I need scarcely remark, that the sooner such
a Work can be brought to a conclusion, the more creditable for all con-
cerned, and the better for the country, for, till it is completed, those plans
for the improvement of Scotland, which will be the result of this inquiry,
cannot be set on foot.  I hope therefore, that you will make every exertion
in your power, to send me the return from your parish, either before, or
during, the fitting of the Assembly; and that if from indisposition of other-
wise, you are prevented from executing this Work yourself, that you will


