
                          LASSWADE.                       325

thornden, the celebrated poet; John Clerk, Esq. of Eldin; and
the late Lord Melville. The following is an abridged account of
each.
   Drummond the Poet.--This parish gave birth to William Drum-
mond of Hawthornden, who occupies a distinguished place among
the earlier bards of Scotland, and who, both as a poet and a his-
torian, will bear a comparison with the most celebrated names of
the age in which he lived.
   If ancestry can add anything to the glory of a genius, which
itself would have ennobled obscurity, it may be mentioned that
Drummond, in addition to his other distinctions, could boast of a
long line of illustrious progenitors. His family came originally
from Hungary in the reign of Malcom Canmore. One of his an-
cestors was secretary to "the Bruce," and another, the beautiful,
talented, and accomplished Annabella Drummond, was Queen of
Robert III. of Scotland, and mother of James I., who way be re-
garded as discovering his consanguinity, by possessing a spirit, in
many respects, congenial with that of our poet.
   William Drummond was the son of Sir John Drummond of
Hawthornden, Gentleman Usher to King James VI., and of Su-
sannah Fowler, daughter of Sir to Fowler, Secretary to the
Queen, and was born on the 13th of December 1585. To the
advantage of a highly finished classical education, he added a fa-
miliar acquaintance with many of the sciences, and also with many
of the modern languages, particularly French, Spanish, and Ita-
lian which he spoke with the correctness and ease of a native.
Inheriting from his father a comfortable independence he could
afford to relinquish the legal profession, for which he was origin-
ally destined, and for which he had many superior qualifications,
and yield himself up exclusively to his favourite pursuit. Em-
bowered in the woody solitudes of his native Hawthornden, whose
romantic scenery was well fitted to call forth his poetic ardour, he
had everything to awaken, and nothing to repress his; muse and
there he produced those exquisite poems which have rendered his
name immortal.
   In this retreat he remained during the greater part of his life;
but he occasionally visited London, and spent several years on
the continent of Europe. Though fond of retirement he enjoyed
the society of his friends; and the fame of his authorship, as well
as the wit of his conversation, for which he was remarkable, drew
around him the principal literary characters of his own country.


