
                           TONGUE.                                187

or  twice, this cannot be expected to continue. For it must be
evident, that when a people, depending mainly on the land for
their sustenance, cannot be supported thereby more than seven or
eight months, (which is the case in- most seaso'ns with the tenantry'
of this parish), they must expend whatever little money maybe
collected in different ways, in providing the staff of life during the
remainder of the year. Were, however, the cro'fts of the tena-ats
enlarged to twice their present'size, and.fenced in, so as to admit
of a proper rotation, then they would be adequate to their main.;
tenance; and the sale of cattle, decently fed, would enable them
with ease tn pay a full rent; whilst the produce of any day labour
would, as it certainly should, be at their own disposal. , Now,
there is scarcely a hamlet in the 'parish in which the arable land
might not be doubled. That the people themselves, who have
only one year's tenure of their land, and who can Only liquidate
their debts by work, for which they are paid in cash, should im-
prove so extensively, is not to be expected. If done at all,, the
proprietor must pay them for their labour until a crop is efficiently
laid down; then a rent may be exacted, which would bring in a
handsome interest on the outlay.
There are many families, however, in great destitution, who
have at present no land ; who could not, therefore, be benefited
by the foregoing plan. Were sources of industry opened upi
some of these might thereby be supported. But the most sates-
factorv method of disposing of these would be, to locate them in
villages at the several fishing-stations ; to build commodious har-
bours; to encourage enterprising curers to settle among them ;
and to secure a market for every spiRcies of fish : and thus, while
the'former depended wholly on the land, these should be' made-
to depend wholly on the sea. Though the herring might occa-
sionally fail, vast quantities of other fish could be caught on the
coast, which are at present never brought to market; and, as
there has a probability that a steamer will soon ply on this coast
from Caithness to Liverpool.' a great inducement is held out to
prosecute this trade with vigour. By this communication all the
exports of the country cotild'obtain a read market in the -south.
In conclusion, the writer expresses his full, couifetion' the te
sult of long observation, and many anxious thoughts- oh'the' Tubes.
ject, that unless such, or some such plans are adopted- regarding
the interesting peasantry of.;his ]parish, the time will soon Arrived
when there 'Will be no alternativeLbut emigration"wthe expense


