
               		    CARLUKE.                       591

menced. The price of the ironstone got as above-mentioned is
about 6s, a too. The Coltness Iron Company have only one iron-
stone working in the parish at present in operation.
	Apart from what is above noticed, coal, ironstone, limestone, and
freestone are extensively raised, for the purposes of building and
iron-smelting at Castlehill iron works. There are eight coal-pits,
and nearly as many mines for ironstone and limestone. We have
no direct means of ascertaining the quantity of each produced, but
when we know that two furnaces are already in full operation, and
take the daily consumption in each of coal at 28 tons, ironstone at
25 tons, limestone at 9 tons, and also estimate the coal used in
charring and calcining, and by the workmen for domestic uses, a
near approximation may be made. *
        Wages.-Labour meets both with a ready and a high market in
Carluke. The usual wages for day-labourers vary from 11s. to 14s.
a-week: and those who work by the day receive 2s. 6d. during sum-
mer, and 2s. during winter. The inhabitants of the parish are
famed as hedgers and ditchers, so much so, indeed, as to be en-
gaged from various parts of Scotland, at a considerable distance.
A large proportion of our hand-loom weavers used formerly to be
employed, but the small emolument now made in that branch of
industry, together with the high wages given for day labour, have
reduced the number to less than one-half. There are still, how-
ever, 225 individuals so employed; those engaged in zebra or
figured work make 9s. a-week; and those at plain work only
4s. 6d.; the average on the whole being 6s. 9d.
	The wages thus earned at weaving are, L.75, 18s 9d. per
week, or L.3948, 15s. per year; 200 females are at present engag-
ed in sewing Ayrshire work, some of whom make as muchb as 8s.
per week, but the average is only 3s. 6d. The amount earned is
therefore L.35 per week, or L.1820 per year. Wages paid for
labour by the iron company are L.377 per week, or L.19,604 per
year.
                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Villages.-The village of Carluke has, within a few years swelled
into the size, and assumed the appearance of a thriving town, +its

<FOOTNOTE>The mining operations are in a sense just begun. In a short time, thrice the
quantity will be required.
	+ To those who are acquainted with the town and parish of Carluke, the former
containing numerous streets of comfortable, well-built houses, the latter fully divid-
ed, and a high state of cultivation, the following circumstance may conway an idea
of the very rapid stride made by this neighbourhood. There is still alive one indi-


