
     of Mary-kirk.

rich supply of water, from 3 or 4 pleasant brooks and rivulets.
It enters this parish, near the burn of Johnston, and separates
both at the bridge and village of Laurence-kirk.  Running
nearly through the center of the parish, it traverses the lower
lands, the distance of 7 or 8 miles; and after having turned
3 mills*, and passed under 2 bridges+, it divides the estates
of Inglismaldie and Balmakewan, before it descends into the
North-Esk.
   In a parish so hollow and level as this, it can scarcely be
expected that there should be found any extensive views; and

<FOOTNOTE>

*The mills alluded to, are Thornton, Barns, and Luther; some one of
which, during the frost last winter, (that was supposed greater and of longer
duration than any ever remembered,) was always employed in grinding victual,
while the other mills, on the North-Esk, (viz. Bridge-mill, Mary-mill,
and Spear-mill,) were for a long time stopt, by reason of the violence of the
frost.

+The bridges are Luther formerly mentioned, and Caldham.  This last
was erected in 1783.  It consists of 3 arches, and stands on the public road,
somewhat less than half way between Mary-kirk and Fettercairn.  At this
bridge, there is an extensive landscape, and picturesque appearance of the
river, meandring among the meadows, and like a sport-man's fine pointer,
does not seem fatigued.  It is also to be observed, that the road from Mary-
kirk to Fettercairn, is well made and finished; and from the variety of gentle-
men's seats that may be seen from it, must give no little entertainment to the
traveller.  Kirktown-hill, Balmano, Hatton, Balmakewan, and Gallero, form
a circle about him, and inclose him on every side.  Leaving this view, he
passes between the planting of Hatton and Balmakewan, till he crosses at
right angles, the road from Luther-bridge, to Laurence-kirk.  He then pro-
ceeds in a straight line, by the bridge of Caldham, through a large extent of
wood, till the road is terminated by the boundary of the parish, at Eslie.
Returning to the poll, where the two roads cross one another; and placing
his right hand to the planting of Hatton, he proceeds in a straight line, with
Luther on his left, and almost always in his view, until he comes within lit-
tle more than half a mile of Laurence-kirk, where he has a fine view spoil-
ed, and the road much lengthened by a disagreeable turning.


