
742                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

Cullerley have a right; from the weekly collections, morthcloth
dues, fines, &c., amounting to L.30 and upwards annualy; and
from the share which fall to the parish of the Synod Fund, cir-
culated by the Trustees of the late John Burnet, Esq. of Dens,
of which this parish has received two payments of L.20 each, at
an interval of sixteen years, and L.35 in the year 1839.  Twenty-
six persons, at an average, receive permanent parochial aid at the
rate of from 7s. to 10s. quarterly, accordingly to their necessities.
Several persons receive occasional assistance, including repairs to
dwelling-house; and the session are often called upon to bear the
funeral charges of the poor.  None of our regular poor travel from
door to door begging bread.  All who are able support them-
selves in part by working.  They are not disposed to claim paro-
chial relief, unless when they need it, nor backward to receive it
when compelled by necessity.  The Kirk-session have the manage-
ment of the interest of L.40 bequeathes by a Mr. Thomson of
Banchory to poor persons of the name of Reith or Mennie, or to
relations of the testator.  The late Mr Alexander Fowler, a mer-
chant in this parish, bequeathed  L.200 to the poor.  He died in
1837.
   Fairs.-Two old established markets are held on the estate of
Echt-the one in June, the other in August, for cattle, sheep,
horses, &c.; and seven trysts for the same purpose, and for sel-
ling and buying grain.  Two of them are held, one at Whitsun-
day, the other at Martinmas, for engaging servants.
   Inns, Alehouse, &c.-There are five inns or house of enter-
tainment in the parish, all on the turnpike roads.  The morals of
the people do not seem to be, in any great degree, deteriorated
by them.
   Fuel.-Peat fuel has hitherto been chiefly used; but the mosses,
especially on the estate of Echt, are beginning to be exhausted,
and English coals are getting into use,-the average price of which,
at the harbour of Aberdeen, is about 5s. per boll.  Wood is scarse,
but will be plentiful in thirty or forty years.  Besides; the planta-
dtions already mentioned, there are about 100 acres of wood on the
property of Bragiewell and South Meanecht.

   July 1842.


