
                             PENICUIK.                      37

detailed in the Notes to the Lay of the Last Minstrel, and which
led to the erection by the latter of the Chapel of St Catherine's
about a mile below the hunting-tower. The picturesque ruins of
this ancient monument of Sir William St Clair's gratitude to his pro-
pitious saint, was submerged, as has been stated, by the Edinburgh
Water Company, on the formation of their great reservoir. The re-
mains of its walls may still be perceived rising from the waters, when
they are unusually low, as was the case last year (1835.) Some old
coins were found under the altar piece, on its being turned up some
years since. The scenery on this romantic stream has long dis-
puted with that on the Esk at Newhall, the honour of being the
local habitation of the dramatic persona of the Gentle Shepherd.
They both have bad and still have their advocates, and much
has been written and still more said on the subject. But, as
the amount of authorship in favour of the Esk rather preponde-
rates, that stream, otherwise so classic, enjoys the envied honours.
It is unnecessary to describe the mansion-houses of the gentry.
They remain as they were when the last account was written; nor
is any of them deserving of notice except Penicuik House, which
is an elegant modern mansion, in the Grecian style, celebrated for
its Ossian's Hall, a large room, the ceilings of which are painted
by Runciman, the designs being taken from Ossian's Poems. Run-
ciman was, when young, employed with others to paint Penicuik
House. Whilst so engaged be attracted the favourable notice of
Sir James Clerk, then a great patron of Scottish genius. By him
he was sent to Rome, where he studied for some time. His death
is said to have been occasioned by the painful exertions he was
obliged to make in painting the roof of the hall, which he had to
perform lying on his back. Pieces so executed cannot, of course,
be expected to display the highest perfection of the art; but they
present very fair specimens of Runciman's style, and perhaps both
the ground and the subjects were the most favourable for his bold,
but exaggerated manner. The most marked improvements have
taken place within the last forty years on the farm-houses and
steadings. All those on the Penicuik barony have been rebuilt
in a substantial way, with slated roofs and other improvements, at
once for use and comfort. The same way be observed as to the
Newhalt property.
 Nor have the manufacturing class been behind the agricultural,
in improving their mills and dwelling-houses. A corresponding
degree of improvement is discernible in the shops and dwelling-


