
	                        ELIE.	                     285

are visible above the surface of the sea. It is usually washed up
after high winds, and is found among the gravel on the beach.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Eminent Persons.--This is a production in which the parish does
not appear to be very prolific.
   Family of Anstruther.--One of the family of Anstruther was
raised to the dignity of a Lord of Session in the reign of Queen
Anne. The first baronet of the race, Sir William Anstruther,
was also member for the county of Fife in Parliament, during
the administration of the Duke of York, 1681; and joined in op-
position to the court measures of that period. It appears that he
also represented this county from 1682 to 1709, and that be took
an active part in the proceedings--tbose more particularly for se-
curing and establishing the Protestant religion, and the govern-
ment, laws, and liberties of the kingdom. In the reign of Queen
Anne he was in high favour. Report says, that she offered him
either a captaincy of Dragoons, or the gown of a judge in the
Court of Session,* and that he preferred the latter--being less
laborious, and better paid. If we may trust, however, to some lines
that are in the mouth of the people, his legal knowledge was not
held in very high estimation.
   But, besides this office, he received more substantial proofs of the
Queen's favour, having got a charter of the baronies of Anstruther
and Ardross, with many other lands, and also the heritable bailerie
of the lordship and regality of Pittenweem, with the offices of Search-
er, and giving cockets for the ports of Anstruther and Elie. The
same charter constitutes him heritably one of the cibo cida, or car-
vers,-an office which his descendant, the present Baronet, continues
to hold. We find that be also aspired to literary fame, having written
a volume entitled "Essays Moral and Divine." It was published
at Edinburgh, 1701, in 4to. There is reason, however, to doubt
whether it was calculated to do him much honour, as his friends
did all in their power to dissuade him from publishing it; and af-
ter his death, his son bought up every copy that could be found, for
the purpose of suppressing the work.
   A descendant of his, Sir John Anstruther, wrote a work on drill

   <FOOTNOTE>There seems to be little similarity betwixt the two offices. But yet the rumour
may not be without a a sprinkling of truth, as he appears to have entered, public
life as a soldier. He had a command in the royal army when it marched into
England, and was taken prisoner at the battle of Worcester, and a fine of 1000 merks
imposed upon him by Cromwell, and his estate sequestrated; which act of sequestra.
tion was only taken off at the Restoration.


