
     Statistical Account

The ordinary and most productive crops are oats, a little
barley or bear, and but a little of there is cultivated, being
found not to answer the soil and climate.  Early oats are
much in use, and thrive well where the land is rich.  Beans
and pease are sown in small quantities, and wheat in a still
smaller proportion.  Potatoes and flax are raised only for
private use, and turnips never sown as a crop.  The return
of oats is from 5 to 10 bolls of 8 Winchester bushels the
acre, which, for the most part, renders in meal about 18 or
19 pecks from the boll, each peck weighing 8 lb.  Of
bear the produce is from 4 to 8 bolls the acre; barley ra-
ther less.  Besides serving the inhabitants, a very consi-
derable quantity of oats and oar-meal is carried to the ad-
jacent towns, and exported to Glasgow and Paisley, where
the oats are sold for 19 s. or 20 s. the boll, oat-meal at 17 s.
4 d. 17 s. 5 d. each boll weighing 8 stone, barley at L. 1,
6 s. bear at L. 1, 4 s. beans and pease at 4 s. the bush-
el*.
   Farmers in times that are now past were allowed to
choose for themselves what kind and what portion of land
they would lay under some of these crops; for it was only
some that they could raise, during which time they could
not produce plenty, consequently paid a very small rent.
They neither knew the full force of lime, nor had it in
their power, for want of roads, to apply it.  In the early
dawning of agricultural knowledge, they were taught to
confine themselves to croft and outfield; the former was
ploughed 3 and rested one year; and when laid down for

<FOOTNOTE>

*The feed time for oats commences the 1st of April, and ends in the
beginning of May; potatoes are planted about the same time; beans and
pease are sown rather ealier; barley, from the 1st of May to the 1st of June;
spring wheat in March, and that for winter in September or October, but
of these we have very little.  The time of reaping is from the 1st of Sep-
tember to the middle of October.


