
		          JOHNSTONE.                          153

a vein of lead below, the existence of disseminated lumps in that
district, and nowhere else in the parish or neighbourhood, is not
earily accounted for. They may have been brought from Lead-
hills to Lochwood, when inhabited, to be smelted for domestic
purposes, with the wood which must then have abounded, and been
carried out to the fields, where they are now found among manure or
rubbish; or they may be the scattered remnants of a depot which
at one time was established at Lochwood or its vicinity, for the
purpose of sending it to be smelted on the English border, where
coals abounded.
	Along the side of the Annan, There is a considerable extent of flat
alluvial land, chiefly dry loam or gravel. In the enterior parts of
the parish there is a number of peat-mosses, extending in all to
some hundred acres, under which large trees of birch, and parti-
cularly oak, are every where to be found, evidently indicating that
they had grown from the original soil before the moss began to be
formed upon them. The moss hs probably the remains of the
Sylvae Caledoniae, mentioned by Tacitus, and the hewing down of
which, in may parts of the island, our Roman invaders experien-
ced to be such a Herculean task. The collection of vegetable
matter, made up of the coarser aquatic plants in a state of partial
and progressive decay, doubtless goes to the more immediate for-
mation of this substance. These plants being not easily soluble,
are found to accumulate faster or slower, according to the humi-
dity of the soil, and temperature of the atmosphere. That cold
is necessary for the formation of moss is evident from this circum-
stance, that the moss uniformly becomes thinner as the climate be-
comes warmer, and that it is not found to exist in the warmer la-
titudes at all. It is also obvious, that, in proportion as the decom-
position of the moss advances, its inflammability, one of its most
important and valuable qualities, is increased. Hence, in digging
peat for fuel, the upper turf, or brown spongy flow recently formed,
and not having undergone the requisite chemical change, is laid
aside; and if the moss has been kept in the same state of humidity
during the progress of its growth, the undermost stratum is found
always to produce the solid black peat, which when ignited emits
most heat. Much correct information remains yet to be obtained
respecting the essential elements of which this valuabele substance
is composed,--the various chemical changes which, in its progress
to putrefaction, it undergoes,--and the causes which operate most
powerfully either in promoting the growth of those numerous tribes


