
                        GOVAN.                           695

                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
Aqriculture.-The whole of the land is arable, and, generally
speaking, the soil is excellent.  The stranger who might be dis-
posed to visit Govan Moor, on account of its historical associations,
would be somewhat surprised to see, instead of the purple heath,
well enclosed fields, producing as luxuriant crops as any in the
kingdom. The appearance of the country about Moss-House and
Heathery-Hall would probably astonish him as muth. The usual
rotation of crops is, potatoes, wheat, hay, grass for pasture, and
oats. The turnip, * an exotic from Flanders, was cultivated for
the first time in this neighbourhood, by Mr William Cross of
Parkhouse, Sheriff of the county of Lanark, who introduced it
into the parish in the year 1756. In no part of the country is
the produce of potatoes greater than in the parish of Govan.
This is no doubt owing, in a great measure, to the farmer being
able to draw a plentiful supply of manure from Glasgow.  The
average rent of land is about L. 4 the acre. The wages of good
labourers are 10s. a-week in winter, and 12s. in summer. Masons,
carpenters, and other artisans, usually get the same wages whith
they do in Glasgow. The duration of leases is in general from
ten to fifteen years. In two or three instances onl is a grain
rent paid, the amountof whith is regulated by the fiars of the
county.
   Improvements at White Inth-A great part of the farm of White
Inth, whith lies along the north side of the Clyde, below Partick,
is low ground. Mr Smith of Jordanhill who is the proprietor of
this farm, has granted permission to the Clyde Trustees to depo-
sit the earth there that is cut away from the banks in widening
the river, and the mud or gravel, that'is. lifted by the. dredging-
mathines in deepening it. During the last three years, L.23,856,
13s. 1d. have been paid for dredging in the harbour, and for
depositing soil at White Inth. This sum includes L. 3027 paid
for wages to a number of men, whn were recommended by the
Glasgow committee for relief of the unemployed operatives.
These men were furnished with, implements of various kinds, at
an additional expense to the Trustees of upwards of L. 500. In
the course of the last year, 145,822 cubic yards of soil have been
laid down.  The soil is taken to White Inth in punts, whith are
towed by a steam-boat.  It is then removed by a contractor, who
is provided by the Trustees with railways, rail-waggons, &c. and

<FOOTNOTE>Brown's History of Glasgow, Vol. ii. p. 175.


