
	1216				PERTHSHIRE.

	   The number of families of independent fortune residing in it
	is only three; but there are usually more.
	   The number of proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50
	and upwards, is 6--being the whole number of land-owners of the
	parish.

<TABLE>
	 	The number of families in 1831 was                         145
			      inhabited houses in 1831,                    144
					       in 1841,                    140
			      houses uninhabited or building in 1831,        9
							     in 1841, forgotten.
	   It was stated in the last Statistical Account, that the people of
	this parish were rather above the middle size.  This, however,
	doer not appear to be the case now ; for  though there are some
	persons to be found considerably above the ordinary stature, yet
	it wouId be easy to, find as many others as far below it.
	   There are, at present, two insane persons belonging to the pa-
	rish, both confined in the lunatic asylum.  There is no person  be-
	longing to it, who can properly be called an idiot; but there are
	three of rather weak intellect.  One old woman has lately become
	blind.  There are none deaf and dumb.
	   Smuggling is not at present known here, nor has it been so for                            or
	a long time past.  Poaching is still practised within the parish to
	a considerable extent--not, however, by its owm  inhabitants, but
	by  fellows who come from Perth, or places in its neigbbourhood,
	very often on the Lord's day, in bands of from three to six, or up-
	wards, accompanied by as many dogs, and scour our woods and
	hills in search of game.
	   The number of illegitimate births within the last three years
	has been two.
				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture.-- It has already been stated, that this parish con-
	tains altogether 4800 imperial acres.  Of these, 2380 are arable,
	240 consist of pasture, and the remaining 2180 are occupied by
	wood, roads, ditches, &c.
	   The various kinds of trees commonly planted have already
	been described.  There is little or no natural wood in the parish,
	as far as is known to the writer, or, if there was any in for-
	mer times, the intersties have been so closely filled up with
	planted wood, as to give the whole the appearance of plantation.
	Within the last twenty or twenty-five years, several old plantations
	of large extent have been cut down, and the ground which they
	occupied has been replanted with various kinds of trees, among


