
286                           ARGYLSHIRE.

was descended from Aonghus King of Ireland, who ascended the,
throne in the consulship of Cicero and Caius Antonius.
   Mr John Beaton, the last of the Highland Senachies, and a
man profoundly skilled in Irish antiquities, gives a catalogue of
forty-seven names between Gillean-na-Tuaidh and King Aon-
ghus, but as these names abound in consonants, I will not, by re-
cording them here, subject them to the risk of being mispro-
nounced.
   Other Landed Proprietors.-The estates of the chief of Duart
were long ago forfeited to the crown, and given to the noble fami-
ly of Argyle, as a reward of services performed by them.  The
present Duke sold the lands of Torosay proper to the late Colo-
nel Macquarie of Ulva, who, in his turn, disposed of them to the
present proprietor, Colonel Campbell of Possil and Torosay, who
ranks as the second heritor.  The remaining heritors in the order
of their valued rent are, Lachlan Macquarie, Esq. of Glenforsa;
His Grace George William Campbell, Duke of Argyle; and
Duncan M'Intyre, Esq. of Burg.
   Parochial Registers.-These do not go far back.  The first
entry in the register of baptisms was in the year 1793, and the
first in the register of marriages in 1807.  They are not of course
voluminous; but since their commencement, they have been very
regulairly kept.
   Antiquities.-On the promontory of Duart, the most easterly
point of the island, stands in majestic ruin its ivy mantled castle.
-It consists of a strong tower at the north end of it, with a long
projection of buildings overhanging a precipitous rock, which ren-
ders it inaccessible on the side next the sea.  At the end of this
projection, and at right angles with it, another building forms the
south side of the castle, and where this terminates, a high wall
connects it on the west side with the tower, inclosing a large square
in the centre.  The entrance was from the west, through a pos-
tern gate, with porteullis, and defended by a barbican.  The
tower is evidently much more ancient than the rest of the build-
ing.  It corresponds in character with the architecture of the
thirteenth century.  Its walls on two sides are 14 feet thick, and
on the other sides 10 feet.  The stair, which is still entire, winds
up through the wall which separates it from the centre square.  In
this wall along the course of the stair, are creniells opening upon
the square.  The tower consisted of two tiers of apartments, sup-
ported by beams resting on corbels.  The windows are deep re-


