
340			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of Ellisland and Friars' Carse. At the present day, there are no
lineal representatives of any of these families in the parish, except
James Grierson, Esq. of Dalgoner. Sir Robert Grierson of Rock-
hall, indeed, still takes the title of Lag; but the lands which anciently
formed the barony of Lag have passed out of the family, and now
belong to George Whigham, Esq. of Hallidayhill. Several of the
smaller properties, however, in the parish still continue in the de-
scendants of the families who possessed them two or three centuries
ago. And among these may be mentioned the M'Burnies of Lag-
gan; the Milligans of Dempsterton, whose ancestor was one Fer-
gus Amulligan, who settled here in 1619; the Lachlisons of Burn-
side; and the M`Kinnels of M`Murdoston, lineally descended by
the female side from the family of M`Murdo, from whom the pro-
perty was named.
	Family of Grierson of Lag.--The old tower of Lag, which is
now a ruin, is said to have been built in the reign of James III.
It stands upon an eminence, and was formerly surrounded by an
outer wall and a ditch, having a moat or court hill a little to the
east. It is a square building, of no great width, but of consider-
able height, and of very massive construction. The family of Grier-
son, who possessed this ancient mansion for many generations, is de-
scended from Gilbert, second son of Malcolm, laird of M`Gregor,
who died in 1374. For the name, it is said, was originally Gre-
gorson, which is equivalent to the Gaelic appellation of M`Gregor.
But this was a harsh term and was therefore softened into Grier-
son, and was often written, by abbreviation, merely Grier. The
lands of Lag were originally disponed to this Gilbert M`Gregor or
Gregorson by one John M'Wrath so far back as the year 1408, the
period at which the family first settled in this part of the country
after having migrated from the Highlands. In the conveyance of
the lands of Lag to this Gilbert, he is designed " Armour-bearer
to Archibald Earl of Douglas." And he obtained a charter of
confirmation 'n from the Duchess of Turrenne, of date 9th April 1425.
A descendant of the family joined the Maxwells of Nithsdale
against the Johnstones of Annandale, and fought at the battle of
Dryffe Sands, a famous and most bloody border feud, which hap-
pened about the year 1598. And the last who inhabited the tower
of Lag took an active part in the persecution against the Covenanters,
and in 1685 was created a baronet under the title of Sir Robert Grier-
son of Lag. He died in Dumfries about the year 1730, and was inter-
led "Culton's nook." It is in the vicinity of the farm of Chapel, but within the
borders of Glencairn parish.


