
         		KIRKCONNEL.                          315

	Extent, Boundaries.--The parish is bounded on the W. and
N. W. by the parishes of New Cumnock and Auchinleck, in the
county of Ayr; on the N. and N. E. by the parish of Crawford-
john, in the county of Lanark; on the S. S. E. and S. W. by the
parish of Sanquhar. From east to west, the parish extends about
8 miles, and from north to south, not less than 15 miles.
	Topographical Appearances.--On the right and left banks of the
river Nith, there is a continued range of hills, irregularly formed,
and of considerable height, distant from the river on each side about
two or three miles, and affording excellent sheep pasture; many of
them capable of cultivation almost to the top. Upon crossing the
ridge of these hills to the north and south, the soil becomes cold
and swampy, or consists of a peat-moss covered with grass and
heath, intersected by narrow valleys, deep ravines and winding rivu-
lets. From the base of these hills towards the river, on both sides,
there is a gentle slope.
	From the elevated situation of this parish, and the number and
height of its hills, one might expect a moist and cold air, with late
harvests and early frosts. The extensive draining, however, of the
hill pasture, and the agricultural improvements which for a long
time past have been going on, have completely prevented these ef-
fects. The soil under cultivation is much diversified. It consists
partly of a light gravelly mould, loam, clay, or mixture of moss and
clay, and deep rich soil, especially on the holm lands upon the
banks of the rivers.
	Minerals.--This parish abounds with coal of the very best de-
scription, which some years ago was wrought to a considerable ex-
tent; but, with the exception of one coal pit for smith work, the
present tacksman has removed his coal operations to the parish of
Sanquhar, which is nearer the seat of general demand. Several
beds of lime and ironstone have been found in the parish; but
no attempt of any consequence has been made to ascertain how far
it would be profitable to proceed.
	Mineral Waters.--There are two mineral wells in this parish
upon a farm called Rigg. The one is said to be of the same quality
as the Kirkland spaw in Galloway; and the other, called Riggburn,
resembles Hartfield spaw near Moffat: but, in both instances, the
water of this parish is the stronger. These wells are little re-
sorted to, because they have been much neglected: but the water
is often sent to very distant parts of the country.


