
                   HOUSTON AND KILLALLAN.                    55

ago or thereabouts.  Mr Spiers, the proprietor of Fulwood, has
planted a great part of his portion with Scotch firs; but the trees
have not thriven on this moss, probably in consequence of the
moss being too wet.  Little other improvement has been attempt-
ed, except near the edges, where the peat has been mostly remov-
ed, and there a few acres have been occasionally reclaimed.  There
is a good deal of bent land of the same description that might
easily be brought into cultivation; but the greatest bar to improve-
ment is the wetness and want of access.  The first thing, then, to
be done, is to lay it as dry as possible, and then to make a road
through it, which would admit of the transit of peats, and facili-
tate the clearing of the moss, preparatory to improvement.
   Moss can be made into a very good manure by being mixed
with oil, and at a moderate expense, particularly when oil is cheap.
The experiment lately tried by Mr Fleming perfectly succeeded.
The proportions were 3 cwt. of oil to 60 cubic yards of moss.
The moss was spread on the ground about one and a-half feet, and
covered with long horse litter, weeds, &c. an inch or two thick,
(a cart or two is sufficient for this quantity of moss.)  Above
this, another layer of moss was laid of one foot thick, and the
three cwt. of oil poured over it as equally as possible.  The whole
was then covered up with eight inches or a foot of moss, and
allowed to heat for three weeks, (the time, however, must depend
on the weather.)  When it had stood for this period it was turn-
ed over, and when again well heated for a fortnight it was ready
to be laid on turnip land,--the texture of the moss having been
by this time completely altered, and become in appearance a black,
greasy, rich mould.
   The turnips were not sown until the middle of July with the
moss manure, which was used in the proportion of 30 cubic, yards
per acre; and from being too late, and the season wet and bad,
the crop was far from good, though quite as much so as those sown
on the same land, at the same time, and with the same quantity
of the best short cow dung; and this year the oats look as well on
the land manured with the moss as on that of the same description
which was manured with the dung at the same time.  The cost of
the compound was as follows, (the oil being very dear in 1830, at
which period the experiment was made:) coarse train oil 3 cwt.,
L. 3, 10s.; horse litter, 5s.; driving moss, 70 cubic yards,
L. 1, 10s,; working and turning, 10s; expense of 60 cubic


