
30                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

chiefly towards the south and south-west;-almost the only per-
fectly flat ground being the rich haughs on both sides of the river
Tyne, extending from the Knowmiln to the sea.
   Climate.-The climate is dry and salubrious. Less rain is observ-
ed to fall here than in many of the neighbouring parishes. Clouds
from the west charged with rain, and of a threatening appearance,
often break at the end of the Pentland, and still nearer, on the
Garletoh hills, and taking the direction of Lammermoor, or of the
Firth of Forth, or of both, leave our fields comparatively dry.
This may not be in every case for the advantage of the farmers;
but the soil being generally strong and deep, is not soon affected
by drought. From this greater dryness of atmosphere, and conse-
quently from a brighter and less interrupted sunshine, no less than
from the fertility of the soil, may probably proceed that superior
quality of grain, for which this district has been long remarkable.
During the months of April and May, the east winds are often
keenly felt, but against their ungenial influence there is no shelter
anywhere. They have been occasionally felt to blow as piercingly
it, the town of Dumfries (one of the mildest climates in Scotland)
as on the coast of East Lothian. The population are subject to no
peculiar disease. Ague, formerly prevalent, has long been un-
known; and the climate may be pronounced a decidedly healthy
one.
   Hydrography.-The Tyne is the only stream of water in the
parish that can be called a river. It rises near Borthwick, in the
county of Edinburgh, and, after pursuing a north-easterly course
of nearly thirty miles, it intersects the old parish of Tynninghame,
and falls into the sea at Tynninghame bay. By the reflux of the
tide, which affects the course of the river for nearly two miles, the
water spreads at full tide into an extensive lake on the Salt Greens,
in front of the Earl of Haddington's house, and forms one of the
enlivening and admired features of that magnificent residence. The
gentle ebbing of the tide leaves no sediment to spoil the beauty of
the greens, which in a short time are seen covered with sheep,
and in summer with a profusion of sea-pink.
   The gray salmon frequent the Tyne, but not in such abun-
dance as to be an article of much profit to the proprietor. The
Earl of Haddington has the sole right of fishing the Tyne, and
the; sea coast on both sides of it, for three or four miles, from the
small, rivulet Peffer, to within a cable's length of Belhaven Water,
within a mile of Dunbar.
   There was, till within these twenty years, a celebrated well


