
			IRVINE.                            629

clusively for pasture, and what is let is generally let about L. 4
per acre. The land described as unfit for crop consists mostly
of drifting sand, and affords a very scanty pasture for a few cows.
All the other land in the parish is arable, and has been under
crop. The soil in the most part of the parish is light sand; towards
the middle, it is of a sandy loam, and towards the higher or north-
east, it is a heavy clay; on the whole, it is fit for any kind of crop.
	Produce.--The annual amount of produce may average about
(3550 quarters of grain,) 25,900 stones of hay, and 3440 bolls of
potatoes, besides turnips, &c. There are from 40 to 50  men and
as many women employed in agriculture, with about 60 horses.
The number of dairy cows in the parish is about 370.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church of Irvine is an oblong square
of 80 feet in length, and 60 in breadth. There is an elegant
steeple attached to it; and the interior was fitted up for the ac-
commodation of 1800 sitters. It was built in 1774 ; and it un-
derwent a great repair in 1830. Around it, there is a large bury-
ing-ground; and a field, between it and the river, is in the pos-
session of the heritors, which they intend to annex to the church-
yard, when it becomes necessary to do so. No part of the bury-
ing-ground is held as the property of private individuals. The tomb-
stones of several eminent persons distinguish this burying-ground:
and of these may be mentioned the tombstones of Mr Alexander
Nisbet, Mr William M'Knight, and Dr Richmond; and that also
of James Blackwood and John M'Coull, who were hanged in
1666, by sentence of the Commission which tried those who were,
engaged in the affair at Pentland.
	Among these tomb-stones there is one erected to John Peebles
of Broomlands, Provost of Irvine, who died in 1596; and there
are several others nearly as early.
	Originally, the church of Irvine belonged to the monastery of,
Kilwinning; and at the time of the Reformation, the vicarage was
held by, Thomas Andrew, by wbom its value was stated at 200
merks yearly. The first Presbyterian minister of Irvine, Mr
Thomas Young, was inducted in 1570. He was succeeded by
Mr Alexander Scrimseour in 1598; and in 1610 he and several
of his brethren were charged by the Lords of Secret Council with
the crime of harbouring "John Campell alias Fadder Christos-
tome, ane known trafficquing priest." Mr Scrimseour in 1618 was
succeeded by Mr Dickson, who was deprived of his office by the


