
660			FORFARSHIRE.

valuations, are as follows:--Lord Panmure, L.182, 5s. 3d; D.
Hunter, Esq. of Blackness, L.515, 2s. 2d.; James Miln, Esq. of
Woodhill, L.369, 16s. 7d.; Major W. B. Gardyne of Middleton,
L.415, 14s. 4d.; William Henderson, Esq. bf Grange, L.360;
Misses Kinloch and Guthrie of Carnoustie, L. 170; D. Petrie,
Esq. of Greenlawhill, L.186, 13s. 4d.; Mrs Moram of Gedhall,
L. 43, 6s. 8d.; Miss Johnstone of Watery Butts, L. 12, 10s.
	Antiquities.--There is no mansion-house in the parish of any im-
portance. The parish is destitute also of antiquities. It seems, how-
ever, to have been the scene of a Danish battle. The following state-
ment in the old Statistical Account describes appearances now no
longer existing. "On the eastern boundary of the parish many tumuli
appear. The traces of a camp in their immediate neighbourhood,
Carnoustie, i. e. ' The Cairn of Heroes,' the name of an adjoin-
ing estate, the vicinity of a brook, which is said to have run three
days with blood, proclaim these tumuli the raves of those north-
ern marauders who fell in the desperate engagement which, ac-
cording to Buchanan (B. vi. Chap. 1.,) took place near Panbride,
between the Danish troops commanded by Camus, and the Scotch
army under Malcolm II."

			III.--POPULATION.
	There are no towns in the parish. In the village of Carnoustie
there are about 1200 inhabitants; and in the village of Barrie,
about 150. The entire population, according to last census, is
2124,
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	It is impossible to state precisely the number of acres that are

cultivated or occationally in tillage. They amount probably  to
2250. There are nearly as many which have never been culti-
vated, on account of the light and sandy nature of the soil. Of
these, however, there is a considerable proportion that is useful
for pasture. It is difficult to say whether there is any portion of
this land that could profitably be taken into cultivation. There
is no part of the parish in a state of undivided common. A very
small proportion--between 30 and 40 acres--is under wood. In
the links, which occupy one half of the parish, extending over its
whole breadth, about 250 acres are cultivated, at an average rent
of probably 15s. per acre. The better land, most of which is
considerably elevated above the links, may average L. 2 per acre.
The real rental of the parish it is impossible to approximate, many
of the estates being in the natural possession of the proprietors .
	The manufacture of brown and white linen is carried on to a


