

96                       INVERNESS-SHIRE,

dues meal more than sufficient for the consumption of all the in-
habitants, which renders it independent of the supplies formerly
procured at a high price from Stratbspey, from the low parts of
Moray, and sometimes even from Banffsbire.
   But all the advantages resulting from these improvements are
more than counterbalanced by a variety of adverse circumstances,
with which the farmer has to contend. Since the commencement
of the late expensive war, besides taxes and public burdens, the
rent of the land and the wages of farm-servants have been more
than tripled over the whole parish. DuriDg the continuance
of the war, the price of cattle and sheep, on which all High-
land tenants chiefly depend, was so high, that the tenants were
enabled to bear those heavy burdens; but in the present state of
things, it is entirely out of their power to pay the rents then im-
posed upon them. Since the peace, the price of cattle has been
so much reduced, that sometimes three can scarcely be sold at the
price formerly received for one; while the rent, the expense of
farm labour, and public burdens, continue still the same without
any sensible diminution. The unavoidable consequence of keep-
ing up the rent in those circumstances, is the accumulation of
arrears to a most enormous amount; which, if rigorously exacted,
would totally ruin the tenants presently in possession, and eventu-
ally affect the interests of the land proprietors.
   The means most likely to remedy those evils would be, to give
longer leases to improving tenants, to make an adequate allowance
for liming the land, to reduce the rent so as to meet the pressure
,of the times, to make the redaction annually dependent upon im-
proving the fifth or sixth part of the arable land, according to the
plan of improvement agreed upon, and to continue the reduction
till the land is brought under a complete rotation. A farm thus
improved would enable the tenant to live more comfortably, and, at
the same time, to pay a much higher rent than he can possibly do
with all his industry in the present scourged sta ' te of the land. It
would also very much encourage industry and improvement, if the
tenants were allowed to build comfortable dwelling-cottages, and
farm-houses proportionate in extent to the value of their respec-
tive farms, with security of indemnification for their outlays, at the
expiration of their lease; instead of the miserable huts in which
they and their cattle are on the present system so-wretchedly ac-
commodated.
        April 1835.


