
     Statistical Account

<TABLE>

The number of householders was                                  300
           of married men (besides widowers),                   243
The annual average of births for the last 5 years, is            40 3/8
Ditto, from 1. Jan. 1752, to 1. Jan. 1757*,                      39 3/5
                                                                -------- 
             Difference, only                                     1 1/3

</TABLE>

   Occupations.-In the inland parts, the people depend chief-
ly on their farms for subsistence: But along the coast, their
chief support is from the sea.  And there are scarcely any
handicraftsmen in the parish, who do not occasionally follow
the profession of farmers, or fishermen+.-The women are
generally employed in spinning linen yarn, which they make
of a good quality, though they cannot do a great quantity in

<FOOTNOTE>

pass, without some young men going thither.  A few have likewise gone of
late to the south of Scotland, in quest of employment: But there last cannot
have much affected the proportion, as several females have also gone thither,
with the same view.

*It is generally believed, that the parish has increased in population within
these 40 years; and Dr. Webster's report affords a proof of it.  But it would
appear, from the above averages of baptisms, that the difference is not consider-
able.  Yet there are unquestionably great tracts of common that have been
peopled within that period.

+The employment of fishing seems to be a great bar to industry in other
branches, as it partakes too much of the nature of sport, as well as of labour. The
success never being known till the experiment be made, one day's successful
fishing will prevent a week's  to any other business.  Women, when
hired by the day, draw from 4 d. to 6 d., according to the work in which they are
employed.-The wages to a man, per annum, is about 45 S.; and his allowance
for food, is 3 bolls of oat-meal, at 8 1/2 stone per boll, and 3 bolls of bear-meal, at
9 stone per boll.  A woman servant's wages and allowance are about one half
of the former.  The wages of servants, however, are upon the increase.  Men,
hired by the day, draw 8 d. without maintenance: But as most of the inhabitants
are fishermen, it is very difficult to procure day labourers,


