
     of Carmichael.

backs.  By the exertions of the proprietors in the neigh-
bourhood, an handsome and commodious bridge of five
arches has been built over the Clyde, one end of which
stands in this parish, and the roads are so much improved
that carts pass at all seasons.  The statute labour is partly
exacted in kind, and partly commuted.  There are two
turnpikes within the parish.  The climate and soil continue
great discouragements to the exertions of the farmer.  For
after much expense and soil, by one night's frost, or a con-
tinuance of rainy weather in harvest, his hopes are often
disappointed, and he seldom knows what it is completely to
save a fully ripened crop.  The oats generally fown are
what are here called the Tweeddale or Blainslie, and the
moorland Ayr seed.  The last is about a week or ten days
earlier than the first.  Earlier kinds of oats have been tried,
but they are so apt to shake is not cut before fully ripe, and 
on poor land yield so little fodder, (a circumstance much
attended to, where so much depends upon rearing and keep-
ing cattle), that in the present state of the grounds, they
are not thought to be profitable.  They might succeed bet-
ter were the fields more sheltered, and the soil made richer;
as in some small rich and sheltered spots, they yield abun-
dant crops.  The kind that is most likely to answer, is what
is called the small barley corn, or the red oats.  They ap-
pear much the same; but even these answer only upon the
richest of our grounds*.  Arable farms here contain from
     Vol. XIII.  3 A

<FOOTNOTE>

*The circumstances that have been mentioned point out grass as the
great object of the farmer's attention in this parish, and that tillage
ought to be employed only for the purpose of meliorating the pasture, or
preserving it in proper order.  Grain, with the disadvantages of late har-
vests, and the present high wages of servants, will not pay a rent, and de-
fray the expense of labouring.  Convinced of this, some of the tenants
have dismissed their labouring servants and horses, and laid their farm
under pasture.  This would be done with more advantage, were their


