
200                      PERTHSHIRE.

century, he tells us, that Bishop Brown " purchased from Ro-
bert Waus, citizen of Edinburgh, for three years of the fruits of the
Church of Cramond, the lands of Wester Kinvaid, Wester Low-
stown, and Easter Lowstown.  These lands he mortified to the
church, and got them united to the barony of Dunkeld, but upon
the express condition that a layman was to bold them of the
church, and to perform the services to the King which fell to
these lands." In addition to these, the bishop was proprietor of
the lands of Pittendynie and Kinvaid.  The present grebe of the
parish, which has evidently belonged originally to the estate of
Pittendynie, was in all, probability allocated during the time of
this bishop.  The next largest proprietor in the parish in these
days seems to have been the master of Gowrie: for in an old
" list of lands and baronies contained in the seizin of James Mas-
ter of Gowrie," and executed on the 11th April 1584, we find enu-
merated " the whole and entire lands of Moneydie, Balmblair,
Ragilimy, with the half of the milns, multures, and miln-lands."
The estate of Strathord was then in the possession of Sir Patrick
Crighton, from whom it was Purchased by the ancestor of the first
Lord Nairne.  The only other proprietor of that period was An-
drew Malcolm of Moneydie Roger, father of the Rev.  John Mal-
colm, minister of Perth, a distinguirhed scholar, and intimate
friend of Andrew Melville.  The above were all in the old or ori-
ginal parish of Moneydie.  The annexed district of Logiealmond,
which extends to more than double the size of the original parish,
appears then to have been in the possession of a family of the
name of Logie.
  Present Proprietors.-At present, the original parish of Money-
die is entirely in the possession of Lord Lynedoch and the Duke
of Athole: and almost equally divided between them. Logieal-
mond is wholly the property of Sir John Drummond Stewart,
Bart. of Grandtully.
  Eminent Persons.-In the former Statistical Account, there are
notices of two eminent persons connected with this parish. The
first " Bessy Bell," celebrated in song as the companion of " Mary
Gray," a daughter of the house of Lynedoch, who, during the ra-
vages of the Plague, which seems to have been remarkably se-
vere in this quarter, * took refuge together in a sequestered spot,
(still pointed out) on the banks of the Almond; where, however,

<FOOTNOTE>In digging the foundations of the new church about twenty years ago, the work-
men came upon an immense accumulation of bones, as if they had been thrown to-
gether into, a pit, supposed to have been the remains of victims of the plague.


