
			GLASGOW.                         209

St Andrew's, St David's, and St Enoch's Churches, and the Al-
bion Street, George Street, and Wellington Street Chapels, be-
longing to the Dissenters, are fine specimens of architecture.
For civil purposes the Royal Exchange is prominent. This build-
ing, from designs by Mr David Hamilton, a native of Glasgow, is
remarkable for its beauty, its extent, and its architectural decora-
tions. Mr Hamilton was also architect to Hamilton Palace, one
of the greatest architectural ornaments in Scotland. The Hun-
terian Musem, from designs by Mr WilliAm Stark, is a beautiful
model of a Greek Temple. The Royal Infirmary by Adams, and
the Lunatic Asylum by Stark, are at once ornamental and appro-
priate for their respective purposes.
	Streets and Squares.--The streets, with the exception of some
of those in the old part of the town, are all sixty feet wide, and the
houses are built of stone and covered with slate. There are four
squares, viz. Blythswood's, George's, St Enoch's, and St Andrew's.
The three former are planted with shrubberry, and St Andrew's
Church stands in the centre of the last.
	Burying Grounds.--There are twenty burying grounds in the
city and suburbs. * The Necropolis, formed by the Merchants'
House in 1830, in their elevated park adjoining the cathedral, in
imitation of the cemetery Pere la Chaise in Paris, stands unrival-
led in the kingdom for picturesque effect.

tended the Exchequer Court in Edinburgh, and obtained a tack of the teinds for the
corporation and the Barony-heritors on the following terms:

<TABLE>
Three years free teind of the burgh and barony, as ascertained by the
	solicitor of teinds,		                   L. 7137  11	8
Deduct for ten heritors on cause shown to the court,	       679   8	0

Fine paid for the tack of the teinds for 19 years, from 1817, the
	period when the last tack expired,		                     L. 6458   3  8
The Lords of the Treasury were pleased to allocate
	from the above sum for repairing the cathedral,    L. 3000   0	0
Grant to the Botanic Garden,                                  2000   0  0

                  					                        5000   0  0

Reserved by the Treasury, but since laid out in repairing the cathedral,     L. 1458   3  8
	The lease expires in 1836, when there is no doubt a similar fine will be exacted.

<FOOTNOTE>When the north-west burying ground was formed, it was distant from houses, but
now, from the great increase of population, it is in the very centre of the city, sur-
rounded by houses on all sides, and consequently very offensive to the neighbourhood.
As it would be a very arduous undertaking to remove a public burying ground, where
there are burying places for more than 500 families, Dr Cleland suggested throwing
the whole burying ground into a grand vaulted cemetary, the groined arches sup-
porting a floor of upwards of 7000 square yard, to be appropriated for public purposes.
This magnificent scheme, of which a plan was lithographed at the expense of the cor-
poration, and widely circulated, would not only relieve the town of a nuisance, but
from the central situation of the ground, would give an excellent opportunity for ba-
zaar purposes, while light and air would be preserved for the health of the inhabitants.


