
                  STRAITON.                                337

lence of Episcopacy. * These, with the former Statistical Account,
are the only written documents that give any information regard-
ing the parish.
	Chief Land-owners.--The valued rental of the parish is L. 4428,
of which the Marquis of Ailsa has rather more than a fourth; Sir
D.Hunter Blair, Bart., and the Honourable Colonel Macadam
Cathcart, have each nearly a fourth. The remainder is the pro-
perty chiefly of Sir James Fergusson, Bart., and the Honourable
Mrs Leslie Cumming, the Heirs of Mr Baird of Nether Berbeth
having a single farm. Sir D. H. Blair is the largest proprietor in
real rent.
	Antiquities.--The most remarkable object of antiquity in the
parish is the ruinous castle of Loch Doon, situated on an island
near the head of Loch Doon. It was in ancient times a royal
castle under the keeping of the Earls of Cassilis. The whole en-
closure, formed of eleven irregular sides, is about 230 feet with-
out the walls. The tower is square. The style of the building,
which is a miyture of Saxon and Gothic, has been of a superior
order, and every expedient has been used by battlements, embra-
sures, and a portcullis to render it secure. There is no tradition
regarding the time when it was built, that is worthy of attention.
It was one of the five strongholds which were held by the royal-
ists during the minority of the Bruce's son, when the rest of Scot-
land yielded to the English power. Its gallant defender was John
Thomson, who is believed to be the same that led back the re-
mains of the Scottish army from Ireland, after the death of Edward
Bruce.+ The interest of this venerable ruin, which is probably
more than 600 years old, has of late been greatly increased
by the discovery on two occasions of canoes in the loch near the
castle gate. Three were found in the year 1823, and three in the
year 1831. One of the former is in the Museum of Glasgow Uni-
versity. The latter are preserved in a pond near Berbeth. All
of them have been hewn out of single oak trees. The largest is
23 feet long, 2 feet 6 inches in depth, and 3 feet 9 inches in breadth
at the stern. In one of them were found an oaken war club, a battle-
axe, a number of large animal teeth, and a quanity of hazel-nuts.
These canoes were probably used at the building of the castle.
Where the oaks grew out, of which they were scooped, is a question
which it would be difficult to determine. The whole country around

<FOOTNOTE> Pitcairn's Account of the family of Kennedy.
	+ Tytler's History of Scotland. Scott's History of Scotland.
        A Y R.   			  Y


