
464                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

lain from time immemorial, and was conveyed to the nearest part
of the public road by order of the late Sir Archibald Grant, and
there fixed in an upright posture, where it still stands.  The figure
of a cross, about four feet high, with rude ornaments cut into it, is
very distinct; and below the cross is a double circle ornamented
like the cross.  It was supposed, at the time, to have been set up
at first to mark the boundary of the priory lands on that side where
it was found; but as that boundary is now believed to have extend-
ed about a mile farther east, no plausible conjecture can be formed
at present as to its original use.
   In the month of September 1823 in digging, a grave in the
church-yard, there was found imbedded in the sand, a little below
the depth to which the same grave had been formerly dug, a gold
coin about the breadth of a shilling, or nine-tenths of an inch, clip-
ped round the edge, and weighing 62 grains.  An impression of the
coin having, with the view of ascertaining its age, and the mean-
ing of the inscription, been sent to William Marsden, Esq. F. R. S.,
&c. and Author of " Numismata Orientalia Illustrata," or, " The
Oriental Coins, ancient and modern, of his collection, described
and historically illustrated," the following account of it was received
from that learned antiquary: " The impression of the coin shewn
to me appears to correspond with No. cccli. of the Numismata
Orientalia, and belongs to a Prince of the MorabetŒn Dynasty of
Morocco.
   " The substance of the inscription is, as follows :-Princeps
Y-suf ben Tƒshfin.  Quicunque aliam quam Islam¡smam profite-
tur religionem, minime ab eo (Deo) acceptabitur, sed die novissi-
mo peribit.
   " Al-Imƒm Abdallah imperator fidelium.  In nomine Dei cu-
ditus hic denarius in urbe Marakash (Morocco).  Anno 491.-
(1097.)" " 22d March 1827. W. M."
   When, or how it may have come to this country can be matter
only of conjecture: probably in the time of the crusades.  It is in
keeping at Monymusk House.
   Mansion-Houses.-Monymusk House, the only building of note
in the parish, is an ancient and spacious mansion, having received
additions since first built, and is pleasantly situated on the south
bank of the river Don.  It has an excellent library, containing
about, 5000 volumes, including some old and valuable editions of
the classics.  There is also a very good collection of paintings in
                                3


