
50                      ELGINSHIRE.

acre; the amount of stipend, as modified in 1829, is fifteen chal-
ders, the one-half meal and the other half barley, and L. 10 of
money. The only Dissenters in the parish are three families of
Antiburgher Seceders, and three of Episcopalians, consisting of
about 25 individuals. The sacrament of the Lord's Supper is
dispensed once a-year; and the average number of communicants
is 200.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish
at present. The branches taught in it are, English, English gram-
mar, Latin, Greek, writing, arithmetic., book-keeping, the elements
of algebra, and practical geometry. The schoolmaster's salary is the
maximum. He has a comfortable dwelling-house, and is paid the
statutory allowance for a garden. The Earl of Dunfermline's mor-
tification to the school of Urquhart of twelve bolls meal annually
(eight and a-half stone Dutch weight to the boll,) is now paid to
the schoolmaster according to the fiar price of the county. The
amount of school fees does not exceed L. 8 a-year.
  Last year there was another school in the parish, but the mas-
ter left it for a better situation. Another teacher is wanted, and
in all probability will soon be found, to supply his place. The
emoluments of the last teacher consisted of school fees, and an al-
lowance of three guineas annually by the trustees of the late James
Earl of Fife.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is thirty, and the average sum allotted to
each annually is L. 1. In the course of a year, casual relief is af-
forded to persons not on the roll, to the amount of from L. 2 to
L.3. The annual amount of contributions and other funds for
relief of the poor is as follows:

<TABLE>
Average of weekly colletions in the church,            -                     L.24   O   0
mortification payable by the town-council of Elgin from land called the
    Shooting acres,        -              -             -                       2  13   6
Rent of gallery in the church,               -             -                    4   0   0
L. 64 in bank, served to meet a time of unusual distress, at 2 per cent.        1   5   7
Donations, average cannot be calculated, but say,      -                        2   0   0
                                                                             L.33  19   1
   Applications for parochial relief are not frequent, and the circumstances
of those who do apply for it are so well known to the members
of the kirk-sesnion, that there is little danger of its being
given to such as, do not really stand in need of it.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The improvements in husbandry, which, at the time of the last
                                4


