
			NEW MONKLAND.                     245

	This progressive increase of population has been owing to the
coal-works in the parish, and the iron-works in the vicinity, having
been greatly extended, and to the weavers of cotton cloth for the
Glasgow manufacturers having greatly multiplied,--although at pre-
sent they are very ill paid, and have poor wages.
	In the year 1833, there were in the parish 125 marriages. In
the same year there were 238 children born in the parish, and re-
gistered; and 153 deaths, reckoning from the number of mort-
cloths used.  The number of proprietors of land above L. 50 of
yearly rent is 68; there are, besides, a considerable number of
smaller proprietors.
	In Airdrie, there were in 1831, 669 weavers above 20 years of
age; 223 coal-heavers, the number of whom is now greatly in-
creased; and 160 ironstone miners, the number of whom is also
greatly increased.
	Character of the People.--In the country part of the parish, the
people are in general strong and robust; but in Airdrie many of
the weavers are feeble and small in stature. Both in town and
country, the people are in general neat and clean in their dress
particularly on Sabbath when they go to church. The dress of the
women is perhaps finer than is suitable for their situation in life.
Many of the people are intelligent and sober, but some of them
are rather fond of litigation. Smuggling, at no great distance of
time, prevailed to a certain extent, but has now almost entirely
ceased.
	There have been 52 illegitimate births in the parish during the
last three years.

				IV-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--Some of the land in the north-west corner of the
parish is very good and fertile, and may bring L. 2 or L. 3 per acre
of rent yearly; but the land from the church eastward is not so
good, being of a poorer soil, and much in want of shelter, and
may vary in yearly value from 1Os. to L. 1, 1Os. per acre. The
rental of the landward part of the parish is about L. 12,000, and
of Airdrie about L. 6700. lf there were belts of planting running
from north to south, at regular distances, to protect from the
north-east winds in spring, the advantage would be great. The
improvement of the parish is, however, gradually advancing, and
many acres of waste land have been, ploulhed within these twenty
years past; but the price of agricultural labour is too high,
compared with the very low price of the produce of the land
	LANARK.                        R


