
     of Balmagbie.

church.  Mr William Mackie, though legally inducted to
the charge, was obliged to hire a house for himself, and to 
efficiate in a barn to those who were willing to acknow-
ledge and attend his ministry*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*When some of his adherents went to plough the glebe for his be-
hoof, those of his competitors rose up against them, cur the reins pieces,
turned the horses adrist, and threw the plough-share into the adjoining
lake.  Some threatened violence to the minister's person.  An insuriated
female actually attempted the execution of it, and would probably have 
effected her purpose, had he not interposed his hand between his throat 
and a reaping sickle, with which the was armed.  His fingers were cut to the 
bone.  The glove which he wore was carefully preserved, as a memorial
of the providential escape he had made.  Another woman who was pre-
sent, exclaimed, sbed no blood, and her advice was followed.  It was re-
marked by the country people, that the intending assassin never prospered 
afterward, and that by her own hand the terminated a life which the 
felt herself unable to endure.  At lenght, after the (truggle in the parish 
had continued about 12 years, Mr Macmillan retired voluntarily, and 
became an itinerant preacher, and founder of the fect of the Macmillan-
ites, or modern Cameronians, who assume the designation of the Reform-
ed Presbytery.  By prudent conduct, and ministerial faithfulness.  Mr
Mackie entirely overcame the avertion of hs people, and lived long 
among them respected and useful.  Some indeed retained, and some still
retain, a predilection for principles, in defence of which have con-
sidered their fathers as having suffered unjustly.  But of the Dissenters in
Scotland in general, it may with truth be said, that they are as industri-
ous and as peaceable members of society, as their fellow subjects who
belong to the Established Church.  Perfect unanimity on speculative points
is never to be expected, and attempts to produce it by the application of
force, are both foolish and unjust.  The policy which extends toleration
so all who invade not the rights of their neighbour, is worthy of an en-
lightened age, and its wisdom and utility are justified by the experience 
of man.

     VOL. XIII. 4 N


