
                           GLASFORD.                               295

middle. It contains in all eleven square miles, or 5598 Scots
acres. It is bounded on the north-west by East Kilbride and
Blantyre; north, by Hamilton; South, by Avondale; and east,
by Stonehouse.
  Topographical Appearances.--The parish is separated into two
grand divisions,--the moors and the dales; the latter of which com-
prehend a beautiful strath of land, that runs along the lower part
of the parish, and is bounded on the one side by the Avon. The
aspect of the parish presents in some places a gradual rise, but
nothing that can be termed mountainous. The district of the
moors is in many parts bleak and barren. Owing to its high po-
sition the air is keen, but the climate is considered healthy. The
soil may be reckoned of three kinds, moss, clay, and light loam.

                          II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  ChiefLand-Owners.--The chief land-owners are the Right Ho-
nourable Lady Montgomerie, (Patroness;) George Alston, Esq.
of Muirburn; John Marshall, Esq. of Chapelton; John Jackson,
Esq. of Hallhill; and William Semple, Esq. of Heads, &c.
	Intiquities.--Three high stones stand upright on a small emi-
nence upon the lands of Avonholm, respecting the origin of which
there are various opinions. Some suppose they mark the resting-
place of martyrs, and others that they are the tombs of noblemen;
but more probably they are remnants of Druidical superstition. Till
within a few years the ruins of an ancient castle were to be seen very
near the mansion-bouse of Hallbill. The late proprietor, John
Millar, Esq.. caused it to be taken down, when there were found
some specimens of beautiful china, unfortunately broken, and a
few other relies. It is said to have been a very strong fort, con-
taining one spacious arch, under which an hundred men could be
drawn up. The building was evidently more intended for defence
than for a place of residence.--There is a small enclosure at a
place called Shawtonhill, in the western part of the parish, which
is appropriated as a burying-ground by a few members of the, So-
ciety of Friends in Glasgow. It has not been used for a great
length of time. The land is burdened with the sum of 12s. 2 1/2d.
annually, which is paid by two possessors of the adjoining grounds.
They are obliged to preserve the fence, which surrounds a space
of nine falls. The ruins of the former church and belfry, built in,
1633, are still standing in the grave yard, where also the tomb of
a martyr is to be seen inscribed,  "To the memory of the very
worthy Pillar of the Church, Mr William Gordon of Earlston in


