
384                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

ny-moor, and other high moorland districts, a great quantity of
rain falls, particularly during the continuance of the westerly winds,
which prevail here during eight months in the year; yet, from the
unevenness of the surface, assisted by draining, there is scarcely
any stagnant water in this district, a circumstance, no doubt, favour-
able to the health and comfort of the inhabitants. From this
draining and other agricultural improvements, the river Carron,
except in time of floods, discharges a much less quantity of water
than it did fifty years ago. To command a supply of that neces-
sary article to the numerous mills on this stream, a large reservoir
has been lately formed on one of its feeders called Earl's Burn, in
the parish of St Ninians. Every article of farm produce finds
here a ready market and a good price. Rents are all in money.
Cattle are generally of a moderate size. Heavy ones are found
not to be profitable an light soils, either for dairy or feeding.
Labourers' wages run about 10s. per week; men-servants' L.16,
and women L.9 per annum. The number of separate farms is
forty, and of families depending on agriculture about sixty-eight
being rather more than one-fifth part of the whole population.
   Manufactures- There are two extensive and respectable calico-
printing establishments in this parish, viz. Herbertshire and Deno-
van. The former was begun in 1783, the latter in 1800. The
number employed at Herbertshire print-works, the, property of
Charles Carnie, Esq. in September 1836, was nearly as fol-
lows:-Block-printers, journeymen, 16; apprentices, males, 44:
females, 40. Tierers, one to each printer, and a few called paper-
layers, 110; print-cutters, dyers, colour-mixers, labourers, &c.
from twelve years of age and upwards, fOO; girls employed in
sewing and fringing, 80. Total number employed, 390. A great
quantity -of goods are printed here by machinery. Some of these
machines put in four different colours almost at the same instant.
  Near these works, the proprietor has a genteel country resi-
dence, but its beauties are considerably obscured by the low-
ness. of its situation, and by the proximity of the neighbouring vil-
lage of Herbertshire.
   The number employed at Denovan print-works, the property of
James Graham Adam, Esq. from an official statement, is as under:
-Block-printers, journeymen, 100; apprentices, males, 85; fe-
males, 15. Print-cutters and pattern-drawers, 30; colour-mixers
dyers, bleachers, and general labourers, 80; sewers and fringers of
shawls, vary, according to the season of the year, from 50 to 150-


