
196                  PERTHSHIRE.

Education.-If there be any thing like a reflection upon the he-
ritors of the parish, implied in the statement which has been given
of the state of our church accommodation, it is gratifying to turn
to the encouragement which they have uniformly given to the in-
terests of education in the parish. In the year 1828, when the
parish school became vacant.-in order to invite a person of
respectability to the office, they doubled his house accommodation,
and added an additional piece of ground to his possession.  And
this year, when they found that the number of scholars, whom
the character of the person they had selected for teacher had
drawn together, could not be accommodated in the school-room,
they have added fifteen feet to its length. The number of schools
in the parish is three; of parochial schools one.  The salary is the
maximum, and the school fees may amount to upwards of L. 30,
if the whole are paid up.
   There are no children betwixt six and fifteen years of age who
cannot read or write; and only one above fifteen destitute of these
qualificationS, which is regarded as a phenomenon by those who
are aware of the defibiency.
   The whole of the barony of Mullion is beyond the distance which
children can possibly travel to school; and, together with some
portions of the parishes Auchtergaven and Moneydie, quoad sacra,
would be greatly benefited by an additional school.
   Poor.-The average number of poor on the stated roll who are
provided for by assessment is 25; average amount of monthly
payments L. 4, 12s. 3d.; of yearly do. L. 55, 7s. Besides these,
there are a number of poor who are left to the management of the
session, who receive L. 47, 2s. 2d.; making the whole expenditure
for the poor per annum, L. 102, 9s. 2d.; of which the average
amount of church collections, dues of morthcloths, &c. is L. 27, 5s.
11d.-
   Alchouses.-There are no less than eleven houses in the pa-
rish licensed to sell ale and spirits.  But of these, there are five,
which being placed on the public roads, and not in villages, may be
regarded as supplying the demands of the public beyond the bounds
of the parish. Still six remaining houses should be more than
adequate to supply the necessary demands of the parish, though
the others should sell no spirits to the parishioners.  And it would
be desirable if the means of doing so could be devised, that some
of them should be suppressed.  Any attempts that have been made



