
                        LIBERTON.                              15

in regard to every farm in the parish, the answers being received
from the farmers themselves. Very few cattle are reared or fed here,
owing to the high price received for turnips, viz. from L. 15 to
L. 20 an acre; but. that immense cattle can be reared, will appear
from the fact,that Mr Johnston of Niddry had last year a bullock
of his own rearing, which, at three years old, weighed nearly 130
stones Dutch. The wages of married ploughmen are L. 16 in
money, 6 1/2 bolls of meal, 3 bolls of potatoes, I month's meat in
harvest, and a free house and garden. A few of a better class re-
ceive L. 2 more. Young unmarried men receive L. 5 and board.
Women's wages are from 8d. to 9d. a day. Shearers in harvest
receive 10d. or Is. 3d. a day, but have sometimes received as high
as 2s. and food, which consists of admirable porridge and milk, at
morning and night, the porridge made in a large boiler, into which
half a boll of meal is often thrown, whilst the mess is stirred with
an immense staff seized in the centre, and fastened at the top,
which thus is made to work with a lever power. An Irish shearer
has been known to eat 9 lbs. weight of these excellent porridge.
At noon the shearers get bread and beer.
  Improvements required.-Nothing of this nature stands so much
in need of improvement as the farm-offices. Some of the cottages,
too, are much in want of being renewed, and constructed with two
apartments each. They are on some farms worse than the stables.
A most important effort is being made at present by the High-
land Society, to secure greater neatness and cleanliness in the cot-
tages; and Mr Trotter of Mortonhall is powerfully seconding
their efforts in this parish, by doubling the premiums offered, and
adding two of his own. The result undoubtedly has already been
highly beneficial. A good deal also requires to be done, and
something is being done at present, in the way of enclosing,
especially on the Liberton estate, and in the way of planting the
tops of the bills towards the west, which will greatly add to the
beauty of the landscape, and break the force of the west wind,
which is here by far the most violent,-tbe result of which, is that
the trees on the rising grounds are all bent towards the east.
  Horses.-Tbe horses are mostly of a superior kind, and are ge-
nerally highly fed, whieh is a proof of the prosperity of agricul-
ture. The horse which obtained the prize at the exhibition of the
Highland Soceity at Glasgow, last year, was reared by Mr Law
of Morton, one of the farmers of this parish. lt is supposed to be
one of the largest and most handsome horses in the world. Another


