
88      			WIGTONSHIRE.

of Wigtown, quha departed this lyf, 16 September 1616, spouse
to Agnes Cunningham."
   A deep fosse or trench, drawn from the two wings of the loch,
seems to have shut in the peninsula of Soulseat. Symson makes
mention of this trench, and traces of it may still be seen. Sym-
son also speaks of a wonderful stone here. "At this mause,"
he says, "is a stone, pretty large, which I have seen, to the par-
ticles whereof broken off the country people attribute great virtue
for curing the gravel; and tell a long story concerning the pro-
gress of that stone, and how it came, there, concerning which, if
you think fit, you may inquire at Mr James Hutchinson, minister
of North Leith, who was a considerable space minister of this
parish."
   In that part of the parish of Inch which was detached to form
the parish of Stranraer, stood St John's Chapel. A piece of land
which belonged to the chapel was called St John's Croft. Ad-
joining was the Castle of the Chapel, which Symson calls "a
good house, pertaining to Sir John Dalrymple, younger of Stair."
This castle now forms the jail of Stranraer.
   Castle-Kennedy is the most notable place in this parish. The
castle has been a large and stately edifice. It was probably built in
the reign of James VI. It was the seat of the Earls of Cassilis,
who once possesed large estates in Wigtonshire. The great
power of this family in this part of the country occasioned the fol-
lowing rhyme:
		"Twixt Wigton and the town of Ayr,
		Portpatrick, and the Cruives of Cree,
		No man needs think for to bide there,
		Unless he court with Kennedie."

In the reign of Charles II, Castle-Kennedy, with the adjacent
lands, passed to Sir John Dalrymple, younger of Stair, and to that
family it has since belonged. The castle was accidentally burned
in 1715, and has never since been habitable. The walls, which
are still standing, arer 70 feet high. The castle is beautifully si-
tuated between two fresh water lochs. The grounds and planta-
tions were laid off by Marshal Stair, and are said to be a kind of
military picture, in which that distinguished soldier "fought his
battles o'er again."
   On the island near the church, the Earl of Cassilis had a small
house, where he was wont, as Symson says, "to retire himself be-
twixt sermons, having a boat for that purpose."
   The remains of a castle may still be seen at Larg, a farm in this


