
     Statistical Account

and thus be a means of bringing them to their destined port
many days earlier.  The only harbour in Rum is Loch Sere-
sorts on the east coast thereof.  It bears east and west, and
runs a considerable way into the island; it is easy of access,
the entrance being pretty wide; there are some sunk rocks
on the south side of the entrance.  Between these rocks and
the north side are about three fourths of its whole breadth,
perfectly clear, affording sufficient room to tack in or out
at pleasure.  This harbour is only open to the eastward, and
consequently there is seldom any great swell.  It is spacious,
its ground good, its depth of water from 5 to 7 fathoms,
and is a good outlet either north or south.  Near the head,
and on the south side of this harbour, a pier was begun a
few years since, which is still carried on, but not finished.
This is sustained as statute labour.  This harbour, to be fre-
quented, needs only to be better known, as it is not only
commodious in itself, but lies convenient for supplies of beef
and mutton at a very moderate rate.  On the south-east side
of Canna lies the Sand Island, separated from the former by
a very narrow sound, which ebbs dry for the greatest part
of every tide, and at high water, fishing-boats can with dif-
ficulty pass through it.  This island is valuable, and fit both
for crop and pasture.  It has 4 tenants on it, who hold of
the proprietor, and pay about 60 L. rent.  Between this island
and Canna, lies the well known and much frequented har-
bour of that name.  This harbour is safe, especially for ships
of moderate size; it is, however, shallow and confined, and,
without a favourable wind, it is difficult to enter or to leave
it; and this inconvenience is increased by a large rock with-
out the mouth of it, which is sometimes wholly under water.
On the north-west side of Isle Muck, lies Eillean nan Each,
Island of Horses.  Between them is a foul, rocky, narrow
channel, which frequently ebbs dry.  This island is of in-


