
                       FORTINGAL.                               533

mond Hill, which intercepts from the district the view, of Taymouth
Castle, the seat of the noble Marquess of Breadalbane. From a
point on the east end of this hill, where a strong fortifications is still
extant, called Dun-mae Tuail, the stronghold or fortress of Tuail,
a natural son of the King of Denmark, who, as traditions bears,
figured much in this quarter during the Fingalian period,- there is
to be seen one of the grandest views imaginable, of the whole dis-
trict between Killin and Dunkeld.
  Fortingal is bounded on the west by the hills of Culidares,-green
to the very top; and by the pass of Chesthill: on the north, by
Sith-chaillinn and contiguous hills and on the east, by Appin of
Menzies;-forming altogether a grand natural -amphitheatres not
so extensive, to be sure, as the one to be seen in Rannoch, but,
at the same time, comprehending as beautiful and fertile a vale as is
to be met with in any part of the Highlands of Perthshire.
  Bolfracks.-This is a district of about sixteen ploughs of land,
the only detached part of the parish, situated on the south side of the
Tay, and containing a population of nearly 200 souls, who, from
the distance, are precluded from receiving benefit at their parish
church, and participate of Gospel ordinances in other parishes, viz.
Weem, Kenmore, and Dull, from each of which they are some
miles distant. This population is all connected with the Esta-
blished Church, two individuals only excepted.
  In this district is an extensive quarry of that beautiful stone, of
which the splendid edifice Taymouth Castle is built.
  Rannocch.-According to some, this name is derived from Rai-
neach, Ferns; but, though abounding with this plant, the district is
not more "ferny" than others.  The name is rather to be derived
from "Rath," water, " Ratheanach," watery--(the th being
silent in the Gaelic term,)-a meaning very descriptive of the
country, especially when Bun-rannoch is covered over with back
water, which it frequently is during a thaw after a great fall of
snow on the surrounding mountains.  Rannoch then appears as
if it were one continued sheet of water.  We have the term in
the names of many waters, as Uisge-rath, a considerable streem
which pours its water into the head of Lochtreig, parish of Kil-
manivaig;-Caol-rath, a mountain-stream at the head of Bade-
noch, parish, of Laggan;-also Caol-rath, the sound separating
the isle of Skye from the main-land. The district of Rannoch
is collateral, and runs parallel with Glenlyon, extending from
the northern base of Sith-chaillion, on the east, in a wester-


