
                              PEEBLES.                      19

ments, besides a house and garden. The minister informs me that
his charge extends to no less than nine parishes. The clergyman
of the Episcopal communion had from the beginning of his labours
in 1828, L. 70 a-year, but a reduction of L. 20 being proposed, he
resigned his charge at Whitstinday last. Another has lately been
appointed. Of the Relief congregation, I cannot give any accu-
rate account.
   The total number of families attending Established church
is about 232; of families attending the chapels of dissenters, 108.* 
   Education.-The are two teachers who are appointed by the
magistrates, and have salaries from the burgle funds. The master
of the grammar-school is allowed a good house for the accommo-
dation of boarders, and L. 10 a-year of salary: from 16 scholars
he receives L. 16 a-year. The boarders enter into a different cal-
culation. The master of the English school has a salary of L. 28,
and when the number of scholars is considerable, L. 10 additional
for an assistant, but no house. His fees amount to betwixt L. 30
and L. 40 a-year. His fees as session-clerk are somewhat under L. 10
a-year. A female teacher is allowed L. 10 a-year by the burgh.
The number of scholars attending the grammar-school is 18 day
scholars, and 48 boaders.+ In the three schools taught by fe-
males, the number of scholars it present is 87, making in all, the
number of scholars at the day schools 491. In this list, those attend-
ing the evening classes are not included, as several of them are day-
scholars. There is no parochial school, and considering the popu-
lation of the parish, it may reasonably be inquired why provision
is not made for such an establishment, as was done some years ago
in Haddington and several other burghs. The grammar-school
has long and deservedly been distinguished as a boarding establish-
ment, and never more so than at present. There are no mortifi-
cations nor any funds for the education of the poor, who are taught
at the expense of the kirk-session. For several years a Sabbath
evening school has been taught in each of the two meeting-houses
belonging to the Associate Synod: this school, however, is not li-
mited to the children of any particular congregation. The present
incumbent in the beginning of last summer began a Sabbath even-
ing school with three assistants, which promises to do much good.

<FOOTNOTE>When the heads of families attend different places of worship, they are not in-
cluded in these enumerations. From a census taken by the elders in 1830, the num-
ber of individuals belonging to the different congregations was as follows:-
  Number of grown up persons attending the Established church, 850; 1st Burgher
congregation, formerly Anti-Burgher, 105; 2d Burgher congregation, 247; Relief
congregation, 329; Episcopal meeting-house, 7.
  In the English school there are 81 scholars; and in three private schools the
scholars amount to 257.


