
516                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

of from one-eighth to one-fourth of an inch or more.  This lime-
stone has not been wrought.
   An extensive bed of marl has lately been discovered by Colonel
Mackintosh of Farr, in the moss of Fordarroch, the property of
Mackintosh of Mackintosh, from five to seven feet below the sur-
face, and the bed is from five to six feet deep.  It lies upon the
south bank of Loch Bunachton, which bounds the parishes for
nearly a mile on the north.  The marl has been used upon light
soils, and has answered uncommonly well.
   Botany.-Maiden-hair, tussilago, wild mint, betony, St John's
wort, lichen, tansy, foxglove, thyme, valerian, burdock, hemlock,
trefoil, nettle, fern, and dock, are all medicinal plants found here,
and used by the country people.
   Tbe oldest Plantations are from fifty to seventy years of age,
and are of the common Scots fir, interspersed with a few larches.
These were planted by William Mackintosh, father of the late
Captain William Mackintosh of Aberarder, the late James Mack-
intosh of Farr, and Colonel John Macgillivray, brother of the
late Captain William Macgillivray of Dunmaglass.  These gen-
tlemen were the first who attempted planting or any other improve-
ment in the country, and their example was followed by the late
David Davidson of Cantry at Flichity, and by the deceased Ro-
bert Macbean of Culclachie.  These plantations extend to about
1020 acres.
   Scots fir, larch, ash, oak, and beech, seem adapted to the soil,
and thrive uncommonly well.  We have natural fir and larch grow-
ing from the seed of the older trees.
   The external appearance of the country is not very inviting, and
must seem rather wild and romantic to a stranger.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   About the year 1532, the Earl of Moray, being at variance with
the Mackintoshes, and Clanchattan in Petty, Strathdearn, and
Strathairn, for overthrowing the fort of Dyke, and besieging the
Castle of Darnaway, and committing many spoils and burnings in
his, Lordship's country, all which they did under the command of
Hector Mackintosh, the bastard, (and his natural brother, Wil-
liam,) who acted as Captain of Clanchattan during the minority
of the young chief;-he obtained a commission from the King to
proceed against them; but, upon the pretence of holding one of
his feudal courts, he assembled the Clanchattan from the dis-
tricts above-mentioned at Tordarroch in the parish of Dun-
                              3


