
     APPENDIX.

intervention of baulks (patches of untilled ground between the ridges) or cairns
(heaps of small stones).  And the reporter adds, that these are the only grounds
in the district that are ever dunged; and the folds are dunged merely by the
cattle and sheep lying in them at night, and in the middle of the day, during
the summer.  The surveyor observes,
   2. That the faughs, in most cases, disjoined by baulks, do not really occupy
the quantity of ground marked for them in the state, the arable of them being
sometimes 3/4, often about 1/2, and even sometimes only 1/4 of the whole.  The
same, he adds, may be said of the ground marked burnt land, though in it
the arable, in general, bears a much greater proportion to the uncultivated.
   3. Under the head of pasture, is included the ground occupied by the small
roads on farms, houses, yards, dike-sides, loans (grounds around which the
houses of villagers are built, and which are commons), stripes along the river
side, where the lands lie contiguous to the Don, morasses, broom, etc.
   The surveyor has corrected the statement given in the account of the length
and breadth of the district, which the minister gave merely upon conjecture.
According to him, the length is something more than 5 miles; as to the breadth
he could not ascertain it precisely, as he surveyed only the estate of Kernnay,
whose mean breadth is little more than 2 miles.  Lord Kintore's lands add at
least another mile to the breadth, consequently the whole parish covers a sur-
face of about 7 1/2 square miles.  The surveyor supposes, that the highest of the
hills in this parish, are not much more than 400 feet above the bed of the river
Don.  He mentions a very curious fact with regard to those hills.  These are
his words: "The ground on the top of Paradise" (one of the hills in this dis-
trict), "and all round the summit for some distance down on every side, is an
"excellent soil, but gradually becomes of an inferior quality as you approach
"the bottom; and it is not a little singular, that all the ground on the declivi-
"ties of the hills throughout the whole estate, is of a much superior quality,
"to the land of the fields below, even on the banks of the river, a very few
"acres of haugh only excepted."


