
52                          KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

Habenaria viridis           Sparganium ramosum          Anagallis tenella
Echium Vulgate              Trollius Europaeus          Parnassia palustris
Cladium Mariscus            Valeriana dioica            Narthecium ossifragum
Typha latifolia                    officinalis          Drosera rotundifolia

all found abundant in most of the bogs
	Zoology--Fishes.--From the limited opportunity of collecting
information, the report on this and the following heads is neces-
sarily very imperfect.
	Salmon, it is well known, frequent the Dee in great numbers.
But all the nets which as yet have been productive, are erected
above that part of the river which is bounded by the Borgue
shores. Were the tacksman at liberty to extend stake-nets far
enough across the extensive sands which form the eastern boundary
of the parish, a considerable quantity of fish might probably be
taken there. The interests of other proprietors, it would appear,
does not admit of this. Last year, a fishery was established below
the bar, at the mouth of the river. The nets here employed are
of that kind so well known on the east coast of Scotland by the
name of bag-net. This kind of net, so common elsewhere, is em-
ployed in no other part of the river. At the Ross, it has been found
to answer very well. As the present is only the second year of this
fishery, no proper return can be given. Hitberto, we believe the
fishing has proved remunerating. The salmon caught are of the
finest quality, being accounted the best of any taken in the Dee.
A salmon fishery, which was also attempted for the first time
this season off the South Park shore, at the entrance into Brig-
house Bay, has proved, for the present, a losing concern. At
times, a good many salmon were taken; but, as we are informed,
the supply was so unsteady, that the returns would not cover the
outlay. This remark will also apply to the fisheries formerly at-
tempted at Kirkandrews and Knockbrex, and which are now
abandoned. Bag-nets were used at South Park; at the other
two places, the common stake-net was employed.
	Off the Ross, there is excellent white fishing ground, and du-
ring winter, the fishing at this station proves very remunerating
to the few fishermen belonging to our coast, who engage in it to
a limited extent.
	As there is no regular demand in the neigbbourbood, and only
one opportunity per week by steam to Liverpool, there is no in-
ducement to the expenditure of capital in smacks or trawl-nets.
The Whitehaven boats very often travel over this ground. It is


