
                BOINDIE.                           231

   No resident proprietor.
   Our population comprehends three insane, six fatuous, besides
 several persons of marked weakness of intellect; none deaf and
 dumb.
   The condition and habits of the fishing population of Whitehills
 are deserving of particular notice. They form a society quite dis-
 tinct from the agricultural labourers residing in the same village,
 intermarrying almost exclusively among themselves,\f* or occasion-
 ally with neighbouriDg seafaring communities. Hence they may
 be generally distinguished from the agricultural inhabitants by
 their personal, appearance, their complexhon being clear, and
 their females possessing superior comeliness. The herring-fishery
 has afforded them opportunities of improving their circumstances,
 of which a certain number of them have availed themselves, thus
 attaining a degree of comfort in their dress and in the style of
 their houses and furniture, quite superior to what their forefathers
 enjoyed. Evil, however, has resulted from the herring-fishery in
 the case of those of less frugal habits, who, by the prospect of large
 returns have been permitted to incur debts to an amount which
 keeps them permanently embarrassed, while it exercises a pernicious
 influence on their character and energies. As amongst others of
 the same class, the wife occupies a far more important position in
 the family than in other situations of life.  While, in addition to
 the ordinary domestic duties, she is subjected to the daily labour of
 baiting the lines and preparing the fish for sale, to her belongs
 the formidable task of carrying the fish to market, often a dis-
 tance of many miles. But the prosperity of the family depending
 upon the success with which the last duty is discharged, she adopts
 a tone, and is allowed an influence which in another condition of
 life would appear little consistent either with feminine propriety Or
 domestic order. The introduction of the herring-fishery indeed has
 in some defree lessened her pretensions, rendering the family great-
 ly dependent upon a source of emolument in which her exertions
 are little available; but she still usually claims the disposal of the
 entire proceeds of the white fishery, prosecuted throughout ten
 months of the year, as her exclusive prerogative.
   The seafaring inhabitants of Wbitehills are not without some
 of the faults with which the class are generally chargeable ; these

 <FOOTNOTE>The relative numbers of the few prevailing names are as follows: 117 Watson,
 47 Lovies, 25 Adamsons, 25 Findlays, 21 Ritchies.


