
202                         KINCARDINSHIRE.

tern) with plates of glass towards the sea, of 27 inches square, in
three tiers, and towards the land with plates of cast iron. The
whole is covered with a dome of copper. This light is 170 feet
above the medium level of high water.
	The dwelling-houses are very compact and comfortable. The
one house contains a room and kitchen for the principal keeper,
and a parlour and bed-room for the general inspector. The other
house contains a room and kitchen for the assistant keeper, a bed-
room for artificers and a work-shop. The tower, the oil, and fuel
stores are separated from the dwelling-houses by an open court,
70 feet in length, and 40 feet in breadth, neatly laid with granite
pavement. The access to the lantern is by a stone stair, built
upon a wall of brick 6 inches in thickness, and separated from the
stone wall by a void of 3 inches in width through its whole ex-
tent. The steps amount to 189, the rise of each being 7 inches.
There are about ten acres of land for a garden and park ground,
intended as a cow's grass for each light-keeper. The whole is en-
closed by a stone wall.
	This lighthouse was first lighted on Tuesday the 15th October
1833.*
			III.-POPULATION.
	In 1755, the population of this parish amounted to 1289, and
perhaps it continued nearly the same for some years after.
	About seventy or eighty years ago, the granite quarries in this
parish, which are abundant and of an excellent quality, particular-
ly for pavement, were opened, and gave employment to about 600
quarriers.  Their subsequent success has been various,--tbe stones
being squared, dressed, and carried to the harbour of Aberdeen,
and thence shipped to London to pave the streets of the metropo-
lis. But of late, the demand has very much diminished, and now

	For some weeks before, the following notice was given in Aberdeen newspa-
pers, viz. "The Girdleness Light-House is placed on the headland of that name, in
the county of Kinecardine. It is situated in Latitude 57&deg;8' north, and in Longi-
tude 2&deg; 3' west, and in imediately off it lies the sunken rock called the Girdle.  This

light-house bears from the north pier of Aberdeen, S. by W. distant 1220 yards;--
from Buchanness Light-house S. W. 1/2 W. distant twenty-five miles, and from the Bell
Rock Light-house N. E. 1/4 N. distant forty-three miles, The two lanterns at this time
station are open or glazed from N. N. E. to W. S. W. 1/2 W. and intermediate points
easterly and southerly. The bearings are taken by compass, and the variation is
26&deg; 45/ W.
	"Girdleness will be known to mariners as a double light, exhibiting from the same
tower two fixed lights, like stars of the first magnitude, the one over the other. But
to a distant observer the lights will appear as one, having an elongated form. These
lights will be from oil, with reflectors placed in lanterns elevated respectively 115 and
185 feet above the medium level of the sea, and will be seen at the distance of 13 and
16, miles, and at intermediate distances according, to the state of the weather."--By
order of the Commissioners of the Northern Light Houses," &c.


