
  
   	       	           PARISH OF CARNBEE.

		  PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

		    THE REV. ANSTRUTHER TAYLOR, MINISTER.


	      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	   Name, Etymology, &c.-THE parish of Carnbee seems to have
	borne the same name in Roman Catholic times as at present, for
	mention is made of it at a very early date in the chartulary of the
	Abbey of Dunfermline, and it remained attached to that reli-
	gious house till the abolition of Popery.  A portion of the teinds
	is still paid to the lordship of Dunfermline, to which, on its
	erection, all the revenues of the abbey were conveyed by a grant
	from the Crown.  It also appears from " the Buik of the Uni-
	versal Kirk," that a Mr David Wemyss sat as member of As-
	sembly for the kirk of Carnbee in the first General Assembly after
	the Reformation, held in 1563.  The etymology of the name is
	given in the former Statistical Account as being derived from two
	Gaelic words, carn and bee, the first signifying birch, and the se-
	cond hill; and the appearance of the locality, as well as certain
	names yet existing, accord with this etymology.
	   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish of Carnbee is bounded on
	the north by Cameron, Denino, and part of Crail ; on the west, by
	Kilconquhar; on the South, by Abercrombie and St Monans, Pit-
	tenweem, West Anstruther, and Kilrenny ; and on the east, by Kil-
	renny and Crail.  Its form is nearly a parallelogram, measuring
	about five miles in length, by four in breadth.  The southern part
	of the parish is intersected from west to east by the turnpike-road
	leading from Colinsburgh by Kellie toll, towards Crail, which enters
	the parish at Pitcorthie, and passes out of it at the crossing of the
	Anstruther and St Andrews turnpike-road, at Pitkeerie wood, be-
	ing a distance of nearly five miles; while the northern part of it is
	intersected in the same direction by the turnpike-road leading from
	Cupar to Crail, which enters the parish at Lathockar bridge, and,
	passing by Lingo and Lochty, leaves it about half a mile west-
	  FIFE.                       3M

