
     Statistical Account

16 to 19 feet keel, some of 8, and others of 6 oars.  Their
only implement is a hand-line, with two large hooks.

   Agriculture, Cattle, etc.-There are in the parish about
9ø ploughs, and all, except one (used by the minister,) of a
singular construction; they are made of a crooked small
piece of wood, on the top of which is fixed a stilt or handle;
the man who holds it walks by its side, and directs it by
this stilt.  As no oxen are used here, it is drawn by four
small horses; the driver, if he can be so called, goes before
the horses, and pulls them on by the halter.  In some pla-
ces the ground is turned up by two instruments well known
in the Highlands, called crooked and even spades; in most
of these parts, the ground is so rugged, and full of stones,
that the plough cannot go through it.  There are no carts
used in the parish, except by the minister.  The manures
are cow-dung, and tangle or sea-ware; there is another
kind universally used here, perhaps not known elsewhere;
their houses are thatched with stubble and heather ropes,
(ropes made of heath), their roofs are so low and flat, and
they burn such quantities of peat, their only fuel, that the
stubble is abundantly covered over with foot; in the lat-
ter end of May, when the harley brard (blade) appears,
they take this footy stubble, and strew it thinly upon it,
which sometimes produces a tolerable crop, but must
scourge the ground.  The only crops reared here are black
oats, bear, and potatoes, sown in April and May, and reaped
in September and October.  The returns are in general
poor, owing to the poverty of the soil, and the cold and
boisterous gales from the northern ocean, to which the lands
are much exposed.  The parish abounds in horses, black-
cattle, and sheep, perhaps too many for the pasture.  There
is no saying, with minute exactness, what the number of
each may be.  Horses, according to a survey lately made,
were calculated at 10505 black-cattle, 2670; sheep, 3392-
     


