
     of Peterculter.

banks of the river, when it is the boundary, and little at-
tention has been paid to the convenience of the parishioners.
They had been built when Popery was the established re-
ligion, and care was taken that the clergy should not want
fish in time of Lent.
   Sometimes the church stands in one of the remotest cor-
ners of the parish.  Mary Culter was lately an instance of
this, and the church was hard by the seat of the principal
heritor.  Dalmaik is another instance; but the church is
at a considerable distance from the seat of the principal and
only residing heritor.  The situation of that church is pe-
culiarly singular.  A narrow strip of the parish runs down
about a quarter of a mile to the N.E. betwixt the river
and a wing of this parish; on the N. E. point of this strip
the church and manse are built.  The minister's peat-stack,
some of his office-houses, and the half of the glebe, are in
this parish; the other half of the minister's glebe is in his
own parish, and, as far as it extends to the westward, takes
in the whole breadth of that part of the parish.  Several
of the parishioners, in travelling the direct road to their
own church, pass through a part of this parish.  Some farms
in Dalmaik and in Durris pay stipend to the minister of
Banchory Ternan, and these farms are called Half Parish.
It would seem that the time was, when the parson of Ban-
chory possessed superior influence, and got a slice off the
living of his two neighbours.  Some farms on the boun-
dary of this parish and Banchory Davinick pay stipend to
both ministers, and they too are called half-parish.  But
there is a farm in this parish, of an internal situation, which
pays stipend to the minister of Banchory Davinick.  It is
in the estate, and near to the mansion house of Culter, not
above a mile and a quarter from our church, but nigh to,
four miles from the church of Banchory, and on a different
side of the river.  We have not records old enough to il-
     2


