
716                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

times grain and potatoes.  There are also three alehouses, or a
they whisky-shopes. *
   Fuel.-The common fuel used in Crimond is peat, which is
procured with much labour, expense, and loss of time in the mosses
of Crimond and Logie, lying to the south of the parish.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS
   Among the remarkable changes which have taken place since
the former Statistical Account was published, about half a century
ago, may be mentioned the following:-
   1. The whole land in the parish, with the excerption of a small
feu at Rettray, belonging to R. Sellar, has passed by purchased into
the hands of other heritors than those there mentioned.
   2. The population, from various causes, but chiefly from one
already mentioned, has decreased from 917 to about 750.
   3. The real rental of the parish has increased from somewhat
more than L.1300 to nearly L.4000 per annum.  The aspect of
the parish, Both in a moral and natural point of view, has under-
gone much improvement in the above-mentioned period.  The
people are less slovenly in their habits, and less supersitious in
their sentiments, and better informed, better fed, clad, and housed
than they formerly were, while many evils which then existed,
such as smuggling, poaching, and plundering of wrecks, have al-
most entirely ceased.  If we glance at the external appearance of
the parish, we find a still more visible amendment.  Trees have
been planted on all the larger estates; and although such planta-
tions are few and far betrween, and, in many cases, present but a
stunted appearances from their exposure to the cold north-easterly
gales yet such spots of sombre green among the brighter hues of
the corn-fields in summer tend much to vary the landscape, and to
relieve the general tameness of the scenery.  Much wet land has
been drained, regularly fielded, and thus considerably increased in
value and productiveness.  In several parts of the parish, where
heather held formerly undisputed possession, such crops of grain
are now produced.  Some small farms, thus reclaimed from the
barren waste, have doubled their rental every nineteen years.
Several new and convenient lines of road have been constructed,
and only require to be kept in good repair to be of great benefit
to the parish and district.  In particular, the present turnpike
road from Peterhead to Fraserburgh has done much to facilitate

<FOOTNOTE>Now reduced to one.-1840.


