
			FALKLAND.                                925

	uers of the times, are differently related by the Scottish historians,
	and have led to much discussion; but the result of recent inves-
	tigations has confirmed the popular account.* The Regent was
	jealous of the talents of the young Prince. He beheld in him a
	dangerous rival, whose capacity for affairs and energetic character
	might prove fatal to his own power. These fears appear to have
	been well founded, for Rothesay, while yet a very young man,
	supplanted his uncle in the regency. The ambitious mind of
	Albany could not submit patiently to this humiliation, and the
	dissolute conduct of the unfortunate Prince soon allowed him an
	opportunity of gratifying his revenge. Rothesay was of a volup-
	tuous disposition; he seems also to have been inconstant in his
	attachments, so that he gave just cause of offence to several fa-
	milies of rank, and created formidable enemies to himself among
	the nobility. These individuals supported Albany in his machi-
	nations against the Prince. The weak monarch, Robert Ill.,
	was made to believe that the vicious excesses of his son were ex-
	citing popular discontent, and that it was expedient that he should
	be placed under temporary restraint. Rothesay was indignant at
	this insulting proposal, and attempted to make himself master of
	the Castle of St Andrews, and in that citadel defy his enemies.
	But in passing through Fife he was arrested by Lindsay of Rossy
	and a traitor of the name of Ramorgny, friends of Albany, by
	whom he was carried first to St Andrew and afterwards to Falk-
	land. Here he was exposed to the most barbarous treatment.
	He was thrown into a miserable dungeon, under the charge of
	two ruffians, by whom he was starved to death. His life, how-
	ever, was preserved for a few days by means so affecting and ro-
	mantic, as to remind us of some of the incidents of Roman story.
	According to Boece, Buchanan, and others, his life, was for some.
	days feebly sustained by means of thin cakes pushed through a
	small crevice in the wall of his dungeon by a young woman, the
	daughter of the governor, whose heart was moved by the situation
	of the unhappy Prince. But being at last found out, she was put
	to death by her father, who regarded her noble conduct as an act
	of treason towards himself. Her cruel fate did not prevent an-
	other woman, employed in the family as a wet nurse, from supply-
	ing him with milk conveyed through a long reed from her own
        <Footnote>
	  Lord Hailes has published an original paper, throwing some light on the mys-
	ious death of this Prince, which was communicated to him by Mr Astle, a gen-
	tleman to whom Scotland is indebted for many valuable illustrations of her history.
	Remarks on Hist. of Scot. p. 278.


