
			LEITH.				765

The income for 1883 was L. 707, the expenditure L. 577. The
number of members is 100, of whom 83 are resident, among whom
those living in Edinburgh are included.
   Maltmen.-The earliest notice of this corporation occurs in a
statute of 1503, c. 92. About 1669 the corporation was suppressed,
but restored again to its former privileges in 1684. The person
admissible are, maltsters, brewers vinegar-makers, merchants, and
medical men, but lawyers are expressly excluded. The entry
money is L. 20, with an annual payment of L. 1. Amount of in-
come in 1833, L. 187. The allowance to widows is L. 7, 10s. a-
year. Average number of members 25.
   Incorporated Trades.-Independent of any of the particular
trades there is a body called "the Convenery," constituted by de-
legates from each trade, which consists of nineteen members made
up of the deacons and treasurers of the trades' corporations. Mi-
nutes of this body are extant from 1594, but the date of its origin
is unknown. In 1832 it was dissolved, whether legally or not is
questionable, and the funds divided among the other bodies.
Since the dissolution, its powers have been entrusted to aggregate
meetings of the trades. The incorporated trades have the same
rights of patronage and election as the other three corporations.
There are nine corporations, viz. the Wrights, Coopers, Hammer-
men, Bakers, Tailors, Cordiners, Fleshers, Barbers, and Weavers.
The entry monies to these trades vary from the lowest, (the
Weavers,) being L. 1 to strangers, and 10s. to apprentices, &c. up
to L. 30, L. 60, and L. 100.
   Magistrates.-These consists of a Provost, who is also Admiral,
and four Bailies, with a Council and Town-Clerk. The Bailies hold
courts for the decision of petty offences. There is also a Sheriff
court, presided over by the Sheriff-Substitute. By the Act of
1838, (1 and 2 Victoria,) separating the town of Leith from Edin-
burgh, the common good of the burgh of Leith with all customs
rates, imposts, and market dues, together with the jail buildings
are transferred to and vested in the provost and magistrates of
Leith.
   Police.-In the 11th George III., an act was passed for-lighting
and cleaning Leith, and for supplying it with water, and in 1827
similar provisions were made io the Municipal Act. The police
commissioners consist of the magistrates of Edinburgh and Leith,
the masters of the corporations, and certain others ex officio, and
of representatives chosen by the corporations, and by proprietors
   EDINBURGH.                                 3 C



