
570                    ARGYLESHIRE.

the range running almost at right angles with the former, em-
bracing a considerable portion of Kilmun parish, diminishing
gradually in height towards, and terminating in, the point of
Strone, separating Loch Long from the Holy Loch, and present-
ing its steepest accliv immediately behind the village of Kil-
mun, lying on the eastern shore of the Holy Loch. We have, as
the third of these ranges, Benmore, with its DeighbouriDg hills
stretching to the north-west and southwest, rising abruptly and
boldly from the valley of the Eachaig and the place of Benmore,
forming in part the steep and wild western banks of Loch Eck,
and the northern side of Glenlean. The fourth range, run-
ningy from east to west, forms the south side of Glenmassan,
and the northern side of Glenlean. The fifth of these groups
runs southward from C-.Ienlean, forming the summit range of the
territory comprising the parish of Dtinoon proper, rising to its
highest elevation towards the centre, westward of the village of
Dunoon, in the bill denominated the Bishop's Seat, and termi-
nating abruptly in the striking hill of Buachaill-ithean, on the es.
tate of Castle Toward : both the latter, as well as Benmore, com-
manding a magnificent view of the neighbouridg counties and the
Western Islands. The most striking feature of these mountain
or billy ranges is their wild and bold irregularity, both of position
and appearance. 13eDmore is considered the highest of the bills
of Cowal and has been estimated at 2500 feet above the level of
the sea; and Buachaill-ithean, by measurement, has been found
1220 feet. The whole of the other ranges-in the parish are of
inferior height to Benmore ; but their steep acclivities, and the
abrupt and rugged breaks occurridg, both separating and inter-
secting them at numerous points, render their appearance impos-
ing, and, on more detailed inspection, exceedingly interesting.
Taking these ranges as the more prominent leading features
which the parochial territory presents, the corresponding valleys
present another feature still mnre diversified and interesting, pre_
senting in detail local scenery of wfter shades and of milder forms
than could be anticipated from a more distant view of the general
aspect of the territory, as seen from any point beyond its own li-.
mits. The parochial bounds comprise also five separate valleys
or glens, corresponding to the five different mountain ranges de-
scribed. In describing Highland scenery, it may not be imper-
tinent to state the distinction properly holding between glen and
valley. The latter is always supposed and seen to have egress as
well as entrance, and both equally patent; while the former,
according to the use of the language wbence the word is borrowed


