
                KILLEAN AND KILCHENZIE.                  379

be found along the coast of the parish, but abundant in Loch
Tarbet, and the eastern shores of the peninsula.
  A few caves are to be met with along the shore, but do not me-.
rit any particular description.  Bealochachaochean, one of the
largest, contains a spring of excellent water, without any visible
outlet.
  As no division of the parish is indented or intersected by an arm
of the sea, neither harbour nor safe anchorage is to be found along
its coast, particularly when the wind, as it frequently does, blows
from the west.  In this event such vessels as venture upon the
coast in the spring and summer seasons to land coals, and ship
potatoes for the English and Irish markets, are abruptly obliged
to weigh anchor and sail to the opposite island of Gigha, where
they lie in security till such time as the wind blows from a more
favourable direction.
  The sound between the mainland and the adjacent islands of
Gigha and Cara abounds with sunk rocks and shelves which some-
times prove fatal to vessels.
  Climate,-The climate, owing to the proximity of the parish
to the Atlantic Ocean, is rather humid, but less so than the north-
ern and mountainous districts of the county, which are sometimes,
during the spring and autumn seasons, deluged with torrents of
rain.  From the want of shelter, however, the western peninsula
of Kintyre is more subject to stormy weather, and sudden changes
of climate.  During the winter season, and the vernal and autum-
nal equinoxes, a mild day is frequently succeeded by furious and
tremendous tempests of north or north-west winds.
  The sudden changes of the weather affect the constitutions of
the natives with various diseases, such as inflammations, pulmo-
nary affections, and rheumatism.  Typhous fever and other epi-
demic diseases are becoming prevalent, which, it is believed, have
been introduced into the parish by Irish vagrants who are conveyed
by steam-boats to Campbelton, and itinerate though the parish,
begging their way from house to house.
  It is universally admitted that the natives were much more
healthy, thirty years ago, than at present, and that many of
them are attacked with diseases which were then only known by
name.  However, a few instances of longevity occasionally occur.
One woman died, three years ago, at the advanced age of 103
years; and five venerable old men are just now in life whose unit-
ed ages amount to 435.


