
280                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

parish of Jedburgh ; on the south by Abbotrule, now annexed to
the parishes of Southdean and Hobkirk; on the west, by Hob-
kirk and Cavers, from which it is for the most part separated by
the Rule; on the northwest and north, by Minto and Ancrum,
from which it is separated by the Teviot.  It is somewhat of an
oval figure,--in length, from north to south, upwards of 4 miles;
in breadth, from east to west, between 2 and 3; and it contains
about 6 square miles.
   It consists of nearly equal proportions of arable and pasture land,
--a great part ofthe latter being moor-land, producing an excellent
kind of heath, on which the sheep seem to thrive.  The soil varies
according to the difference of situation and climate, as happens in
all cases, where there is a sudden transition from  hill to dale.  The
lands that lie near the Teviot and the Rule are generally com-
posed of a rich sandy loam, over a gravelly substratum, and some
small portions of clayey soil.  These lands are well adapted for
wheat and turnip.  As you recede from the streams above-men-
tioned towards Bedrule hill and the Dunian, the soil becomes ge-
nerally thinner and more sterile, with a retentive clayey subsoil,
and in many places very spongy, requiring much draining ; and few
lands can be more favourably situated for that important opera-
tion, as they generally slope towards the streams above-mentioned.
For except a few fields of haugh land, there is not a level field
in the whole parish.
   Mineralogy.--The hills surrounding the village are, like almost
all the other bills of the south of Scotland, of the transition forma-
tion, and consist of greywacke.  In the bad of the river Rule,
there are excellent specimens of sandstone, horizontally disposed,
of a reddish colour, and apparently belonging to the floetz forma-
tion.  Some fine specimens of this sandstone may be seen about
a quarter of a mile below the village.  The new cut made for
the Rule, immediately adjoining the manse, also displays the same
rock, and along the right bank of the stream, below the manse
about a mile, there are some quarries, in which the stratum has
been dug to a considerable extent, and-whence it is sent for build-
ing and ornamental purposes to different parts of the country.  In
the last quarry, the stratum of superincumbent earth is of great
thickness, and the sandstone, which immediately succeeds to the
alluvial deiposit, seems to consist of a bed which is of great depth.
The poet Leyden has noticed the occurrence of sandstone in the
                             3


