
2		     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

that species of copse which, it is said, in early times covered the
greater part of the south of Scotland. Coalston wood is mention-
ed in some of the ancient deeds of the family so far back as the
thirteenth century.
   The climate is very salubrious, remarkably free from endemic
disease, or visitation of contagious fever. It is still, however, in the
recollection of aged people, that in their early days, some were laid
aside from work every spring, with ague: but now, the soil being
so well drained, this disease is rarely if ever heard of in the district.
There are at present upwards of 150 persons above seventy years
of age, a considerable number beyond eighty, and several above
ninety. As an instance of extraordinary longevity in one family, it
seems worthy of record, that Alexander Maitland, and Catherine
Cunningham, were married 6th August 1657. The ages of nine
of the children of this marriage amounted to no less than 738 years.
Another thing remarkable of this marriage is, that the eighteenth
year of it produced trines, and the twenty-first twins. The ages of
the trines amounted to 256.
   Hydrography.-The Tyne is the only river in the parish. Its
source may be traced into the parish of Crichton, about twelve miles
westward. After receiving the tributary streams of Salton and
Coalston, it passes through Haddington, dividing the burgh from
the suburb of Nungate, and proceeding nine miles eastward, falls
into the sea below Tyningliame, about a mile to the westward
of Dunbar. Though generally of moderate breadth and depth
(averaging ten or twelve yards in breadth, two feet in depth, and
flowing, When unimpeded by embankments, somewhat less than two
miles an hour,) yet being as a trough to a large extent of sloping
surface, particularly the Lammermoor range of mountain on the
south, it sometimes suddenly swells, and overflowing its banks oc-
casions considerable damage. There are four stone bridges over
it in the parish.
   It is stated by the Rev. Dr Barclay in a former account of the
parish of Haddington,  (Transactions of Antiquaries of Scotland,
Vol. i. page 46,) on the authority of Fordun, lib. xiv. c. 21,
" That on Christmas eve 1358, there happened a most extraordi-
nary inundation. The rivers swollen by excessive rains, rose above
their banks and swept away many villages, houses, and bridges, and
many persons lost their lives whilst endeavouring to save their pro-
perty,-not only cattle but tall oaks and other large trees were torn
up by the root sand carried off to the sea. Sheaves of corn were


