
874                       LANARKSHIRE.

stoun, swore fealty to Edward 1.  In Bagimont's Roll, the rectory
of Covintoun, in the deanery of Lanark was taxed L.4, being a
tenth of the estimated value of its spiritual revenues.  In the south-
west of the old parish of Covintoun was formerly a cbapel dedi-
cated to St Ninian, the patronage of which belonged to the pro-
prietor of the lands of Warrandhill.
   The church of the old parish of Tancardstoun was dedicated to
St John, and hence it was called St John's Kirk.  In the period
between 1175 and 1199, the monks of Kelso obtained from An-
neis de Brus a grant of the church of Tankardstoun called Wode-
kyrch, which was confirmed by the Bishop of Glasgow, and after-
wards by Symon Lockard.  In the reign of Robert I. the rectory
of the church of Tancardstoun continued to belong to the monks
of Kelso; but, as they received from it only an allowance of forty
shillings yearly, they appear to have afterwards relinquished it.
The parochial district bf Wodekirk comprehended only the terri-
tory of Tancardstoun, and the church stood in the southeast cor-
ner of the parish, about a mile and a half from the village.  The
lands and barony of Thankerton, with the patronage of the church,
belonged to Lord Fleming at the close of the reign of James V.
In Bagimont's Roll, the rectory of Thankerton was taxed at L.4.
Lands of considerable extent formerly belonged to the parish
church of Thankerton, which, at the Reformation, passed into lay
hands, and have since formed a property called St John's Kirk.
The two small parishes of Covington and Thankerton were united
some time between 1702 and 1720.  The patronage of the united
parish belongs to Sir Norman Lockhart, as patron of the old pa-
rish of Covington, and Sir Windham Carmichael Anstruther, as
patron of the old parish of Thankerton, who present by turns.
   It was at Covington Mill in this parish, that the celebrated co-
venanting clergyman, Daniel Cargill, was taken prisoner by Irvine
of Bonshaw, in the house of " Andrew Fisher, and his spouse, Eli-
zabeth Lindsay."  He was executed at Edinburgh along with four
others in July 1681.
   Land-owners.-The principal land-holders of this parish are,
Sir Norman Macdonald Lockhart, Bart.; Sir Windham Car-
michael Anstruther, Bart.; James Howieson, Esq. of St John's
Kirk; and Michael Carmichael, Esq. of Eastend.  There is only
one mausion-house in the parish, that of Mr Howieson of St
John's Kirk. -


