
                      ROW.                                 67

that looks into Loch-Long. The banks of the Gareloch are much
less precipitous than those of Loch-Long.Cultivation has extended a
considerable way up the side of the hills along it, and there is enough
of wood to add to the beauty of the scenery, as well as occasionally
to add something to the income of the proprietor. From the village
of Row southwards, the banks of the Gareloch become more level.
In the neighbourhood of the church, and of his own house of Arden-
connel, the late much respected proprietor, Mr Buchanan, plant-
ed a considerable portion of wood, and to him that beautiful neigh-
bourhood owes much of its beauty.The flattest and the best land
in the parish is on Lord John Campbell's estate of Ardine-aple, and
in the barony of Millig,which lies immediately behind the town of
Helensburgh. Ardineaple is well wooded, but the barony of Mil-
lig is exceedingly naked, and has no shelter except the little which
it steals from the skirting plantations of Ardincaple on the west. Of
the whole parish there is but an inconsiderable part that is either
cultivated or capable of being cultivated to any advantage.
  Before concluding the topographical appearances, it would be
almost unpardonable to omit all mention of the extreme loveliness
of the situation of the church, and the burying-ground in which it
stands. The church itself is as plain and ordinary a looking
building as can well be. It has nothing ornamental or tasteful in
it, but every thing around is full of exceeding beauty. The square
burying-ground is surrounded on three sides by fine, old wide-
spreading plane trees, the first to burst. into leaf in spring, and
most abundant in their foliage. A bay of the Gareloch lies with-
in a few yards of it, which at full tide is extremely lovely; and
the opposite shore and hills of Roseneath are strikingly picturesque
and beautiful. Saddening as the reflections are which arise when
standing amidst the ashes of thousands of fellow-beings, it is im-
possible to look around without feeling the influence of having as
much exquisite scenery spread before the eye, as it is possible to
conceive. The situation of the manse is little inferior to that of
the church, and the view from the Row point, at a little distance
from the church, is equally delightful. Towards the north, the
loch stretches itself for a distance of five miles, and the prospect
is terminated by the dark, rugged, and lofty hills of Loch Long,
"noble samples of nature's statuary." Towards the south lies the
point of Roseneath with its castle, its fine trees, and its gallow-
hill wooded to the top; the expanse of the Frith of Clyde, the
turrets of Ardineaple, and the wooded point of Ardmore.


