
     of Kildalton.

feet from each other, and they are called the Two Stones of
Islay*.

   Islands, etc.-These are also few small islands on each
side of this entry to the lake.  Strangers should therefore be
very careful to keep at a proper distance from these islands,
when near this those, as they are very near the main island.
There is another anchoring place, about 3 miles to the S. W.
of Loch-Knock, which is known by the name of Laga-
mbuilin.  There are 3 ways of coming to this anchoring place,
which is opposite to a small village, and they usually cast
anchor near a quay, that lies below this village.  The entry
next the manse, on the W. side of the bay, is the best+.  The

     VOL. XI. O o

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common tradition concerning these stones is, that a daughter of one
of the kings of Denmark was buried here, whose name was YULA; and that
from her this island was called ISLAY, or ISLA; which seems to be the more
probable, that a Highlander pronounces both these words nearly in the same
manner.

   +On the E. side of this place there is a tower, or castle, known by the name
of DUN-NAOMHAIG.  This castle is built on a large rock, which is surrounded
by the sea on allsides; except the N.  There are still, on the N., the remains of
many old houses, that had been built for barracks and storehouses.  Some of the
cellars, and a baker's house, are still visible here.  There is a very strong wall on
the W. side, between the castle and the barracks; and the side walls of a large
gate are still standing.  This gate is called the Iron Gate; and it is reported
here, that the fort was supplied with water from a small river; that runs past the
end of the manse; and that it was conducted in pipes, under the sea, across this
bay, to the distance of about half a mile.  There is a large stone room on the
top of the fort; and here the gun ports are entire.  On the N. side of this room
there is an earthen mound, which is very thick; and it appears to have been
built up to the top of the fort, as a kind of defence to that part of the building;
for the N. is the only place where an enemy could make an attack on this fort.
There is a high hill on the W. side of the bay, opposite to this fort, where there
was also a tower, for the defence of Dun-naomhaig; and as both places are
nearly of the same height, and only about the distance of about a quarter of a


