
     of Jedburgh.

Martinmas.  Upon the day of meeting the heritors elect a
preses, after which the minutes of the former federunt, and
the roll of the poor are read by the clerk.  Forming a cal-
culation from the number already standing upon the soil, and
the applications made to them, the heritors assess themselves
in a certain sum to be collected from them severally, accor-
ding to the proportion of their valued rents.  The proprie-
tor pays one half of the assessment, and the tenant the other.
Though the tenants are not mentioned in the summons, yet
such of them as chuse to attend are made welcome, and their
advice and information listened to by the meeting.  The
sum assessed is raised by the heritors and kirk-session to-
gether, in such proportions as seem adequate to the necessi-
ties of the poor.  Such persons as are reduced to the necessi-
ty of applying to the heritors for charity, from any acciden-
tal transient cause, such as disease or misfortune, receive what
is called an interim supply, i. e. a certain sum for that quarter
only:  The aged and infirm, and such as are likely to continue
under the same necessity of depending upon public chari-
ty, are taken upon the poors roll at a certain weekly allow-
ance.  The persons taken upon the roll are obliged to sub-
scribe a bond or deed of conveyance, making over and be-
queathing all their effects to the heritors; and though the
heritors seldom exact their effects, yet the subscription of the
bond serves as a check to prevent persons, who may be pos-
sessed of concealed property, from alienating the public cha-
rity.  The sum assessed is levied by a collector, appointed by
the heritors, and distributed by him to the persons admitted
upon the roll, according to the proportions allotted to them.
This mode of providing for the parochial poor was adopted
in the parish of Jedburgh anno 1742, when the number of
the poor increasing, from the scarcity and high price of pro-
visions, the heritors and kirk-session were obliged to have re-


