
                         COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                      169

      occupied by independent possessor, were determined, to prevent
      collision and encroachment.  The division, again, into marks or
      shares was obviously to facilitate sale and succession.  The read-
      er will here observe some curious points of resemblance between
      ancient Scandinavian, and very recently promulgated principles of
      colonization.  In certain states of society it is expedient that por-
      tions of land should be held in community; and, under any circum-
      stances, it is not apparent why joint-stock management should
      not have place in this as in other species of property.       This is,
      however, not a favourite doctrine in Shetland, for divisions of the
      commons, without any apparent agricultural object, are yearl tak-
      ing place.  As tbis process is expensive, and often vexatious, it might
      be as well previously to consider, whether more beneficial results,
      with less outlay, might not be obtained by divisions of parts of the
      commons, or by more prudent pro indiviso management of the
      whole, similar to what formerly was here the practice, and what
      has long been in operation under the orderly and well-digested sys-
      tem of rule carried on by the mild and paternal government of
      Denmark in the Faroe Islands.
        Property is in the hands of many individuals: a few heritors
      are comparatively large ones.  The Earl of Zetland possesses a
      considerable entailed'estate, which, however, from being much
      scattered over the country, is of far less value than it otherwise
      would be.  The great benefit of excambions is here most pal-
      pable.  The value of land would be increased by concentration,
      management would be simplified and abridged, and'tbe expenses
      of compulsory divisions diminished.  The resident proprietors
      have been long actively anxious to effect exchanges with this only
      absentee landlord, on principles of equitable and reciprocal ad-
      vantage; and it is to be hoped that the present worthy represen-
      tative of the family will perceive the propriety of removing an
      impediment to improvement, which has long pressbil heavily on
      the islands.
        Long leases have often been proposed as a boon for Shetland
      peasants, and the landlords are quite disposed to grant them; but
      it may be nine enough to appreciate the value of this suggestion,
      when the tenants shall be disposed to accept them, 'which they are
      not.  A more immediate and direct benefit, would be produced
      were the landlords, instead of attending chiefly to the extension
      of their properties, to employ a part of the time of their tenants
      for hire in improving the forms by enclosing draining, manure-


