
     Statistical Account

price paid by Lord TILLICOULTRY being 3,494 L. Sterling;
by Mr BARCLAY MAITLAND 15,000 L. and by Mr BRUCE
24,000.  Before the last sale, a part of the estate was sold
to Mr JOHNSTON of Alva; but the feus,+ which Mr Barclay
purchased at different times, were fully equivalent to this
part.  This estate, which, for a century and a half, has been
always floating in the market, and has so frequently changed
its proprietors,, is now strictly entailed, and will remain in
Mr Bruces family, the entail of the estate of Kinross having
been transferred by act of Parliament to Tillicoultry.  The
number of the old feus, or parts, was 40, but they are now
mostly bought up, and again united with the estate, or in
the possession of Mr TAIT.  The lands of Killtown, where
Tillicoultry house is situated, and the lands of Colerstown or
Collintown, belonging to Mr JOHNSTON, were not fued.  It
is difficult to ascertain the quantity of land belonging to
each of the feus, as more or less seems to have been given,
according to the quality and value of the soil.  One origi-
nal 40th part at Drimmy contains at present, nearly as
much arable land as a 40th part and a half at Ellertown, and
near as much as two 40th parts at Cairnstown.  ^^Tillicoultry
pays an annual feu duty of 7 L. 6 s. Sterling, and 166 bolls of
salt, called King's malt.  This is a part of the Lordship of
Stirling, having been originally paid at the castle of Stirling,
for the use of the King's family, but was transferred, at an
early period, to the Earl of MARR, as a security for some
money lent to theCrown.

<FOOTNOTE>

+Lord COLVIC feued the greatest part of his estate to his tenants, whom
he distinguishes in his charters, as auld, kindly, native tenants, and reserved to
himself a certain annual feu-duty, which appears to have been the old rent.

   ^^It appears from the meal paid as feu duty by the feuars of Cairnstown,
and the money paid by the other feuars, that a boll of meal, and 3 s. 4 d. Ster-
ling, were considered as being of equal value, in the conclusion of the 16th,
and beginning of the 17th centuries.


