
     Statistical Account

at 15 s. a fourth of 370 acres at 18 s. and a fifth of about 300
acres at 12 s. per acre.-The farmers are allowed by their lea-
ses to plough half of their farms annually, the other half being
occupied by pasture or sown grass.  The former is usually di-
vided into five portions, one in fallow, one in wheat, one in
pease or some other green crop, one in barley, and one in oats.
Were this practice strictly followed, a tenth part of each farm
would be in wheat; but as in some farms and in some seasons
this will not do, it will be nearer the truth to compute a twelfth
of each farm, according to which estimation there will be an-
nually 366 acres sown with wheat in the parlish.  About 228
bolls will be required to sow them, and the produce, reckon-
ing 8 bolls after one, will be 1824 bolls of wheat; which at 30 s.
per boll will give L. 2736.  From the above data it will be ea-
sy to compute the quantity and value of the other productions
of the parish.  The farmers are prevented from sowing turnips
to any extent by the impracticability of pulverizing their strong
ground to the fineness this seed requires, and the difficulty of
getting the roots off without leaving dangerous impressions up-
on the soil.  To remove them by horses or carts is very
hurtful; and when sheep are folded on them, the holes made
by their feet render the ground unfavourable for bearing the
succeeding crop of barley.  The farmers therefore prefer taking
fields of turnips in the neighbouring parishes, at from L. 2: 10 s.
to L. 5. per acre.  It was formerly customary to sow grass seeds
among barley after the ground had carried several crops since
it was fallowed and limed; but the farmers now begin to sow
grass seeds among the young wheat in spring, and this method
is thought to succeed much better than the former.
   Betwixt the two longitudinal elevations or ridges of Swin-
ton quarter and Greenrig lies a flat low piece of ground of a ve-
ryconsiderable breadth, often overflowed by the swellings of the
Leet, which great pains, have been taken to drain, and which


