

        14                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.


        the tide flows.  In Ben Radh there is a cavern said to have been
        formerly the resort of a gang of robbers, the entrance of which, is
        formed by two natural stone pillars inclining towards each other.
        There are several other caves of various forms and. sizes to the
        west of Fresgo-Head.
           The extent of the sea shore is about nine miles, a considerable
        part of which is clayey, incumbent on a horizontal rock, and its
        aspect is bold and rocky.
           The principal bays are those of Sandside and Bi house, the
        former of which is about a mile in breadth, surrounded by beauti-
        ful sandy links, to the extent of about a mile.  These links pro-
        duce excellent pasture, and in them are found great quantities of
        various kinds of sea-shells.  The principal headland is Fresgo-
        Head at Sandside.
          Climate.-The atmosphere is dry and healthy.  Thunder and
        lightning, followed by heavy falls of rain, generally occur in the
        months of June and July.  When flashes of lightning are seen
        during the winter months, they prognosticate severe gales of wind
        from the northwest, accompanied by rain or snow.  The country
        people remark, that when on a clear night they observe the de-
        scent of a meteor called by them a falling star, it indicates an ap-
        preaching storm.  The Polar Lights are seen frequently during
        autumn and winter, and sometimes at other periods of the year.
        When seen low in the horizon they are said to prognosticate fair
        weather, and when extended across our zenith, foul and stormy
        weather.  The prevailing winds are from the north and north-
        west; and in the winter and spring seasons, there are frequent hard
        gales from those quarters, and as there are no woods nor high lands
        on the north side of the parish, the inclemency of the weather is
        greatly felt.  From the beginning of May to the middle of June,
        the prevailing wind is generally from the north-west, with a bleak
        cloudy sky, which depresses vegetation very much, and is said to
        nourish that pernicious insect called the grub caterpillar.
          The most prevalent distempers of the district are, fevers, con-
        sumptions, and rheumatisms.  The mortality occasioned by the
        small-pox, measles, and chincough has for some years past much
        abated.  Fevers frequently cause a considerable mortality.
          Hydrography.- Many parts of the parish abound with perennial
        springs of excellent water.  A few years ago, a mineral spring was
        discovered near a place called Helshetter, the water of which is
        thought to be not much inferior to that of the Strathpeffer wells.


