
72                     BERWICKSHIRE.

   There are said to be the remains of a Roman camp on the farm of
Raecleugh, a little above Bruntiburn, and another in Harelaw moor;
but the mounds are now so indistinct, and have been so much injured
by time and other causes, that it is impossible to judge with any ac-
curacy, from their present appearance, whether or not they are to
be considered as the vestiges of a Roman encampment. *
   A place on the moors of the farm of Wedderlie has from time
immemorial been called Gibb's cross, where tradition affirms
that a person of that name suffered martyrdom for his attach-
ment to the Protestant faith. But the writer of this, notwith-
standing every inquiry, has not been able to ascertain the truth
of the report. Among the relies of antiquity may be mention-
ed also a triangular stone that belonged to the house of Arch-
bishop Spottiswoode at Glasgow. It was brought hither when
that house passed into other hands, and is inscribed with the
Latin words, "Mihi vivere Christus et mori lucrum." It now
forms the pediment of a window in the lodge-house of Spottis-
woode.-Harit's dike, which extended from Berwick westward
along the whole country, passed through this parish to the north
of the village of Westruther. The tract is still visible.-There
are no ruins of old houses now except Evelaw, or, as it is popularly
called, Ively tower, which is still pretty entire, and was one of those
castellated houses that were common on the borders before the
union of the two kingdoms, in the reign of James VI. There were
several of these in this parish formerly, which have all fallen beneath
the wasting hand of time, but the one now mentioned. There
were also connected with these what are called vaults, which were
not subterranean cellars, but buildings erected for the preserva-
tion of cattle, which were so closely and compactly built, that there
was no crevice or opening in them, but small holes here and there
interspersed along the wall, serving the double purpose of admitting
air to the beasts within, and of allowing the owners to shoot at any
who might threaten an attack on their, property. Both these spe-
cies of buildings were evidently suggested by the necessities of an
unsettled period; when the border reivers, suddenly crossing the

<FOOTNOTE>A few coins were found on the Flass farm, belonging to the age of David I.,
and a great quantity of coins was discovered in a cave at the ruins of the chapel in
Wedderlie. It is to be regretted that these were distributed throughout the coun-
try, or sold to people who cannot now be traced.  But it is said that none of them were
of an ancient date; and it is generally supposed that they had been deposited there as
a place of security by some of the inhabitants of Weddeilie during the religious wars
of the seventeenth century.
                                         3


