
338                          DUMRFRIES-SHIRE.

There is a reason assigned, bowever, for the name of the larger
stream having merged into that of the smaller. For according to
tradition, the Cairn once pursued a different course, and did not mix
its waters with the Clouden at all. Instead of passing through the pa-
rishes of Holywood and Irongray, it is supposed to have passed
through Dunscore in an easterly direction down the glen of the
Lag, and to have fallen into the Nith several miles higher up than
the Clouden. And it is a presumption in favour of this tradition,
that the Clouden is still called the "Auld water" of Clouden.
   Mineralogy.-The upper district of this parish consists of tran-
sition rocks, among which, in the higher grounds towards the
western boundary, many large boulders, and occasionally blocks of
granite, occur. The secondary strata, composed of red sand-
stone, commence in the lower division of the parish, about two
miles from the eastern boundary, and continue to traverse the county
in the direction of Dumfries, passing into Cumberland.
   A considerable variety of soil exists. In the lower district,
a light gravel or send prevails; but there is a small extent of what
is called holm land, consisting of a rich alluvial soil, along the banks
of the Nith, as well as in the centre of the parish, along the banks
of the Cairn. In the higher district, the prevailing character is
a species of loam on a till bottom, and abounding with small stones.
Peat-moss also occurs in different places, and in considerable tracts.
There are six or seven mosses in the parish, from which great
quantities of fuel are obtained. Those in the upper district are the
largest, and afford the hardest and best peat. But of late years a
considerable portion of this kind of land has been drained and im-
proved. Generally speaking, the soil is dry, although some parcels of
wet spongy land occur, and some good meadows, besides the peat-
mosses just mentioned. Except on the holms and more fertile valleys,
the soil is by no means deep. On part of the higher grounds, it is ex-
tremely thin and poor, and several of the hills are entirely covered
with heath.
   Zoology.-Foxes are sometimes found in this parish, and otters
have been recently hunted in the rivers. * Of domestic animals,
all the common kinds are more or less reared. But the prevailing
breed of cattle has hitherto been the Galloway or polled kind,--

<FOOTNOTE>About two years ago, a young otter was partially tamed and domesticated by an
inhabitant of the parish. It frequently went a fishing with its owner, on which oc-
casion it always retained the first fish for itself, and faithfully delivered up the rest.
It was sometimes chained to a kennel, and sometimes went at large. If its master
neglected to take it to the river to fish for army length of time, it went of its own ac-
cord and after being satisfied returned to its owner. It has now passed into other
hands, and its subsequent history is unknown.
                                         3



