
388				FORFARSHIRE.

of children in each family is from  4 to 5. There are no houses
inhabited, with the exception of a few which are in a in rainous
state, and some otbers in the course of being built.
	The unmarried agricultural male servants live together in small
house, called bothies, or sheds of one apartment each, where they
cook their own victuals, and act in every respect as their own ser-
vants. The bad effects of this kind of residence on the morals of
the class of the people here alluded to, are justly described in other
parts of this work.
	The people in general are very inoffensive, honest, and indus-
trious, and seem tolerably contented with their circumstances.
	They possess minds of native vigour and sagacity. They are
punctual in attending church, and p`y great respect to the ordi-
nances of religion.
	Poaching is practised to some extent; but smuggling is now en-
tirely abandoned.

				IV-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The superficial contents of
the parish are about 4514 imperial acres; and all are under culti-
vation excepting 1402, the greater part of which is planted. The
remainder, consisting of 95 acres or thereby, is unworthy of cultiva-
tion, and lies constantly waste or in pasture. The kinds of trees.
planted are oak, ash, elm, plane, and beech, with larch, spruce,
and occasionally silver first to nurse. One-fourth of the whole is
hard-wood. Great attention is paid to these plantations, by scien-
tific thinning and pruning, &c. The eastern division of the pa-
rish is richly ornamented with trees of various sorts, some of which
have attained a considerable magnitude and age; and the fields
on the estate of ldvies, to the west, are individual fringed with
rows of trees, and in many places embellished with clumps of thriv-
ing plantations, which notwithstanding the presence of stone en-
closures, impart a highly tasteful aspect.
	Rent of Laid.--The land has been greatly improved of late,
and its value has proportionally increased. This is evident from
the fact of 15s. per were acre having been the average rate at which
the ground was let in lease, not lore than forty years ago, where-
as the average rate is fully twice that sum now. The grazing of
an ox cow coats about L.2 for the season.
	Husbandry.--The agriculturists of this parish and of the whole
of Angus have long been famous for their superior notions of til-
lage ; although it were perhaps difficult to determine the speciali-


