
     of Birse.

   Poor.-The church-session became proprietors of a piece
of land, upwards of a century ago, which yields from L. 4
to L. 5 yearly.  Dr Gilbert Ramsay, late of the island of
Barbadoes, mortified, in 1732, for the behoof of the poor,
L. 500, from which they have had interest at 5 per cent.
The late Robert Farquharson of Finzean, mortified 600
merks:  L. 20 were left by the late Isaac Robertson of Gre-
nada, in 1789.  As yet the session has only recovered L. 15
of that legacy.  With this sum, the session have L. 125
lent cash, at 4 1/2 per cent.  There is still due, besides a con-
siderable sum lost, the sum of from L. 40 to L. 50, a debt,
which it is to be hoped, will in time be recovered.  The
weekly collections at prevent amount to L. 9 or L. 10 an-
nually.  Ten years ago they were not more than a third
of that sum.  The fines of delinquents, which are not ri-
gorously exacted, and some small payments for the mort-
cloth, are still to be added.  Such being the funds destined
for the support of the poor, it is hardly to be wondered,
that several put in a claim, especially as the best tenant
sometimes in a parish, is not ashamed to have his father,
mother, or near relation, on the roll, which amounted here
to 50 at last distribution; however, not above a third of
these receive supply, unless at the two general distributions
of the interest of Dr Ramsay's mortification.  Few of the
poor are altogether unable to provide for themselves; ma-
ny are housekeepers in indigent circumstances; several wi-
dows and young families.  To these, to the aged, and the
infirm, we give occasional relief; to some we allow 8 s. a-
quarter.  We allow 8 s. for an interment.  None are al-
lowed to be in straits, and almost none belonging to the pa-
rish go about and beg; yet of strolling beggars we have
our share.  In summer 1783, part of the money laid out at
interest was taken up, and meal bought with it for the re-
lief of the indigent.  Crop 1782 was by no means so defi-


