
              876                      PERTHSHIRE.

              attached to the Castle "de Dupline" for the benefit of its pos-
              sessors.
                 Extent, &c.-The extent of the parish, from east to west, is
              about 3 miles; and from north to south, about 2 1/2 miles. It is
              compact, situated upon the rising ground which forms the
              northern boundary of the beautiful vale of Strathearn, while the
              view is limited to the south by the Ochil Hills.  The Earn forms
              the southern boundary of the parish, separating it from the pa-
              rishes of Forgandenny and Forteviot. This high land range
              slopes gradually again to the north, overlooking the rich and wide-
              spread valleys of the Almond, the Tay, and Str`thmore; while
              the noble range of the Grampians in the distance, with their tow-
              ering summits, forms a splendid boundary to this panoramic scene.
              On the north-east, the parish is joined by the landward part of
              the Fast Church parish of Pertb ; and on the south-east, by a
              portion of the parish of Forteviot ; on the north, it is bounded by
              the parish of Tibbermuir ; and on the west, by that of Forteviot.
                The Earn is remarkable for its beautiful windings through the
              Strath, especially from the bridge of Forteviot to the Bridge of
              Earn.   The various elegant seats of noblemen and gentlemen
              on the declivities, and the substantial farm-houses and offices, all
              ornamented with much fine wood, form a scene which strikes the
              eye of every traveller with delight.  The river is subject to great
              inundations.  It is famous for salmon and a variety of fresh-water
              trouts, which are caught by the net or in cruives.
                Geoloqy-The prevailing stratum of this parish, along with
              tracts of the surrounding. country, is sandstone of the older for-
              mation.  There are several quarries in the parish, the fidest of
              which is at the Milton. Of this stone the present manse has
              been built.
               Plantations.-In no part of the country is finer wood to be seen
              and of greater variety than around Dupplin Castle. The sweet
              and horse chestnuts are of great age.  Black spruce of the greatest
              dimensions, with quantities of beecb, and the fine old Scots fir.
              witb its massive gnarled arms of great size, adorn the avenues
              leading. to the castle.  Larger solitary trees may be found in other
              places; but it is generally acknowledged that few seats in Scot-
              land are surrounded by such an extent and variety of large and
              valuable wood as Dupplin Castle.  The old plantations extend to
              about 200 Scots acres, and the present, Earl has planted about 150.

                                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
                The oldest session record is of date February 14,1613, and is


