					MOULIN.                         645

	There is a sprinkling of evidently old trees round the mansion-
	houses of the present proprietors; a few also point out the re-
	sidences of several families now extinct and consist for the most
	part of Scotch fir, ash, plane, elm, and oak.  I am not aware that
	any of the trees of this parish deserve particular notice, with the
	exception, perhaps, of the geen tree at Edradour, which, at thirty
	inches above the surface of the ground, is 11 feet in circumference,-
	and the memorable ash in the church-yard, which at the ground is
	17 feet, 5 inches, and 13 feet, 3 inches in circumference at six feet
	above ground,-the Weymouth pines at Faskally are reckoned
	among the finest in Scotland,-and the two magnificent oaks which
	stand in all the pride of " monarchical" independence hn the lawn
         of Urrard,-the largest measuring at the base, 17 feet, and at
	eight feet above the earth, 13 feet in circumference.  Its stem
	contains 298 cubic feet of timber, and the lateral branches cover
	a space of ground nearly 80 feet in diameter.  The late Major
	Alston Stewart is said to have refused L. 70 for it.  At the same
         place, there are also two fine larches, the largest measuring 9 feet,
	4 inches, and the other 8 feet, 9 inches in circumference, at 3
	feet above ground.

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	   Historical Events.-The parish has been the scene of two his-
	torical events of considerable importance in different points of view :
	the one, as it secured, at the time, the stability of the Protestant
	succession ; the other, as it afforded a striking manifestation of the
	power of Protestant Christianity on the soul of man.
	   On the 27th July 1689, the celebrated battle of Killiecrankie
	was fought in this parish, between the forces of General M'Kay,
	Commander of the government troops, for the protection of the
	Revolution settlement, and the Highlanders, who flocked round
	the standard of Grah`m, Viscount of Dundee, in behalf of King
	Jaimes VII.  Of this engagement,many interesting accounts have
	been written.  Chalmers, in his History of the Rebellions, Browne,
	his History of the Highlands, and M'Kay of Rockfield in
	his Life of General M'Kay, have detailed every circumstance
	connected with this battle, with a degree of minuteness which
	leaves nothing for future historians to supply.  In a Memoir of
	Lord Viscount Dundee, by an officer of the army, printed in Lon-
	don hn 1714, we have the following appalling picture of the savage
	and unrelenting ferocity with which, on that memorable occasion,
	the Highlanders, with their claymores and Lochaber axes, attack-


