
972			PERTHSHIRE.

carried on horseback by means of curachs. Roads and carts were
subsequent inventions.  The workmen's wages did not exceed 3d.,
nor that of the labourers, 2d. Scots per day. The mortar was
carried in baskets on horseback. The cost of a man with a horse
and baskets, or with a curach, was 3d. Scots per day.  In 1460,
Bishop Lauder finished the cathedral. He built the porch of the
south gate, and adorned it with several fine images. There is a
gateway at the western end, of which there is no record. In 1464,
Bishop Lauder dedicated the church to its old patron, St Co-
lumba. *
   The palace of the bishops stood a little to the south-west of the
cathedral. It consisted of several long houses of two stories,
thatched after the manner of the times. For greater security to
that residence, a castle was erected close to it in 1408. The
castle contained "a great hall, with vaulted granaries and a lar-
der,"-a precautionary step against any long-continued attack

<FOOTNOTE>It may not be uninteresting to give, from Dean Mill, a list of some of the or-
naments presented to the church by the different bishops. In 1406, Bishop Card-
ney gave a handsome and very valuable mitre and bishop's staff. In 1441, Bishop
Bruce "a cope and four vestments of great value." In 1450, Bishop Lauder "pro-
cured many priests vestments of silk, and a deal of silver work, such as six candle
sticks, one cup, two phials, three flaggons, a box for the chrism, a cross, in which
there is a part of our Lord's cross, a vessel for holding the eucharist of considerable
weight, and another for the holy water, two instruments for sprinkling the holy wa-
ter, and two incense censors. There was over against the great altar a piece of paint-
ing representing the twenty-four miracles of St Colme, and overhead of this, two sta-
tues of that Saint.  There were two pillars on which rested two angels, who held two
candlesticks of fifteen branches, agreeable to what is said in the Revelation of John.
Each of these branches was suspended by a silken rope. He made a pillar for sup-
porting the great wax lights at Easter, with a bishop's chair, and a bench for the cho-
risters. Bishop Brown in 1500 gave various gorgeous dresses, as also a cover for the
altar of blue and gold. He made a pulpit of brass, divided into four, each division
of which supported the statue of an Evangelist, and when the Gospel was read, it
was in that division which answered to the name of the Evangelist which was then
read. He made a lesser pulpit, which was supported by tbe statue of Moses behind,
on which there was a candlestick of three branches. He caused paint the upper parts
of the pews. He made new the throne of the holy cross, the chancel, the altars of St
Martin and St Michael. He caused make images of the apostles, and portraits of
the other saints, to be drawn upon the wall all around. But as to the King's noble-
men, bishops, and others who had been benefactors to the church he caused their figures
be drawn upon the wall behind the altar, that the whole quire might, in time of pray-
ers, have their eyes upon them. He also beautified all the altars with proper figures
and for the use of each gave proper vestments to the priests.  He bought two great
bells.--the lesser called George, and the greater St Colme. He procured another
greater, named Maryford, which he left his successor." A number of the prebeads,
contributed vestments and other valuable and weighty silver ornaments. The pre-
bend of Fungorth gave two chalices, silver gilt, two silver phials and a pot adorned
with the image of St Columba, his guardian saint.
   The altars in the church were dedicated, 1. to the Blessed Virgin--" save us from
the pains of hell." That altar stood to the right of the principal altar; 2. St Mi-
chael; 3. St Martin ; 4. St Nicholas; 5. St Andrew the apostle; 6. The Innocents;
7. All Saints; 8. Stephen the Martyr; 9. John the Baptist; 10. St Catherine; 11.
St John the Baptist; and the 12. is believed io have been the altar of St NInians or
St Salvator.

					4


