
          PARISH OF GUTHRIE. *

PRESBYTERY OF ABBROATH, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

     THE REV. GEORGE ARKLAY, MINISTER.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Boundaries, &c.-No satisfactory account can be given
of the name Guthrie. It is the name of the family in which is
vested the patronage of the parish, and which has been a name of
distinction in Scotland as far back as the records of the country
extend. The parish consists of two portions, the one of which
(Kirkbuddo) is separated from the other where the parish church
is situated by an interval of not less than seven miles.
	It appears from the records of the Abbey of Arbroath, that
the kirk of Guthrie bad been a chapel belonging to the abbey.
It was purchased from the abbey by Sir David Guthrie the an-
cestor of the present patron of the parish, who founded and en-
doved a collegiate church at Guthrie, for a provost and three
prebends. This deed of foundation was confirmed by a bull from
Pope Sextus IV. of date 14th June 1479. To this foundation at
Guthrie, Kirbuddo or Carbuddo was attached as a rectory. The
rectory has been incorporated with Guthrie as an integral part of
the same parish, since the Reformation.
	The northern portion of the parish, in which the church stands,
is bounded on the south by the parishes of Kirkden and Resco-
bie; on the west, by the parishes of Rescobie and Aberlemno;
on the north, by the parish of Aberlemno; and on the east, by the
parish of Kinnell. The southern, or Carbuddo portion, is bound-
ed, on the north, by the parish of Dunnichen; on the west, by
that of Inverarity; on the south, by the parishes of Inverarity
and Monikie; and on the east, by the parish of Carmylie.
        Topographical Appearance and Soil.-The appearance of the
northern portion of the  parish somewhat resembles the ridge on
which the old town of Edinburgh stands, with the castle rock at
the western extremity. Guthrie Hill, a round-backed mass of

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late Rev. James Whitson, Minister of Guthrie.


