
           130                        SUTHERLAND.

           a landlord, its manufacture retarded agricultural improvements,
           and thereby curtailed the quantity of produce which the land would
           otherwise yield for the maintenance and comfort of the popula-
           tion.
             Produce.-In order to bring all under one view, a table is here
           presented, showing the number of men employed, the amount of
           stock and capital invested, and annual returns; with a comparison
           betwixt the particulars of this and the last Statistical report of the
           parish.
             Live-Stock.-The breed of sheep on the large farms is a pure
           Cheviot, to which great attention is paid.  The sheep, in the
           hands of small tenants is a cross between the native breed of
           small black-faced sheep and the Cheviot, and of late years has
           been much improved.  The breed of black cattle, comparatively
           speaking, is not very good, and much might be done towards its
           improvement.
             Before the hills were taken up for sheep stocks, the country
           was deservedly famed for the breed of Highland ponies or garrons,
           extremely hardy, and some of them living to the age of thirty.  The
           present Orkney breed is in a great degree descended from them,
           having at one time been sold hence in considerable droves.
             Manufactories.-No establishment of this kind exists, and there
           is rather a scarcity of artisans and mechanics.
             Rent of Land- The average rent of arable land per acre can-
           not be exactly specified, as each lot or portion has a share of
           pasture land attached to it, held in common by the tenants of the-
           respective townships.  The following may convey an idea of the
           extent, and nature of these holdings.  The rents payable by each
           small tenant are from L. 2 to L. 5. To illustrate, we will advert
           to a L. 3 rent, which is a very common one. In a favorable sea-
           son, the crop produced, together with milk and fish, supports a
           family of four for eight months.  Three small Highland cows,
           eight sheep, and one horse, form the stocking.
             These holdings, with their supply of fuel, however limited they
           may appear,-in a'country where fish is abundant, enable the fru-
           gal occupants to live moderately well.
             Wages.-  The wazes of carpenters, smiths, masons, and tailors
           are about 2s. 6d. per day.  Farm-servants, besides board, receive-
           L, 7 yearly; maids, L. 3, 10s, . Mr Falconer states the wages in
           1792 to have been, for a farm-servants, L. 2, and for a maid-ser-
           vant, 17s. 8d. yearly- besides perquisites.


