
                  PARISH OF ROTHES.

       	 PRESBYTERY OF ABERLOUR, SYNOD OF MORAY.

	  THE REV. ALEXANDER M,WATT, MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, &c.-THE parish of Rothes is beautifully situated
on the west bank of the river Spey, with the exception of the
estate of Aikenway, formerly called Oakenwall, which is on the
opposite bank, at the bottom of the bill of Beneagen, and occu-
pies little more than the space of a mile, in the form of a penin-
sula. It is bounded on the south and south-west, by Aberlour and
Knockando; on the west, by Dallas; on the north-west and north,
by Dallas, Birnie, Elgin, St Andrews-Lhanbryd, and Speymouth;
and on the east, by the Spey, (on whose opposite bank is the pa-
rish of Boharm,) extending along the winding bank of the river,
northward from the rock of Craigellachie, a distance of between
nine and ten miles, with an average breadth of nearly three.
  Topographical Appearonce.--The form of the parish is somewhat
irregular, and its physical aspect agreeably diversified with hill and
dale. Besides the noble Spey, several smaller streams or burns are
in the parish which descend from the interior, and discharge their
waters into the river at various places. Along the margin of the
Spey, the surface of the ground is extremely level, and the hills,
at certain distances, bending near to the bank of the river, have
shaped this level course into four beautiful haughs or detached
plains called Dandaleitb, Rothes, Dundurcus, and Orton. These
bauahs consist either of excellent alluvial soil or deep loam, and
produce some of the finest crops of oats, barley, and wheat, to be
met with in the country. By the river side, the soil is, with few
exceptions,rich and fertile throughout. Leaving the Spey, and
advancing into the interior of the parish, the surface swells or rises
into irregular eminences of various and considerable height, and
forms, as it were, a natural barrier on the north and west. The
sides of these rising grounds are, in a great measure, covered with
thriving plantations of wood, principally Scotch fir and larch,

                             3


