
702                       ARGYLESHIRE.

  Situation and Extent.-This parish is about 35 miles long,
and from 6 to 20 miles broad.
  Figure and Surface.-Of the figure of this parish it is impossi-
ble to give any adequate description, as it is intersected by three
arms of the sea, divided by mountains, and indented by creeks and
promontories. The east part of it is situated on the westward of
Lochlong, an arm of the sea, which strikes off from the Frith of
Clyde, at first in a north, and afterwards in a north-east direction,
and separates the counties of Argyle and Dumbarton. It is about
24 miles in length; but the parish of Locligoil-head occupies no
more than 12 miles of its coast. Lochgoil is a small arm of the
sea, which strikes off from Loehlong in a north-west direction, and
intersects the south division of the parish for six miles. The
north-west part of the parish is divided in the same, manner by
Lochfine. Upon the west side of Lochlong, and upon both sides
of Locbgoil, the coast is bold and steep, and the hills high and
craggy. The shore, upon both sides of Lochfine, as far as this
parish extends, is more flat and accessible; the land is very high,
but not so rocky or steep. The barrenness of the ground along
the coasts of Locbgoil and Loehlong is partly concealed, and the
tremendous wildness of the scene agreeably diversified by exten-
sive natural woods, which cover the land near the coast, and rise
to a considerable distance from the shore. The surface of the
country in general is very unequal; some of the mountains which
form the western extremity of the Grampian bills are situated in
this parish. Particularly Bein una, so called from the richness of
its grass; Bein-an-locham, from the fresh water lake which washes
its base; Bein luibhain, abounding in herbs; Bein thiolaire, re-
markable for its springs and water-cresses; and Bein Donich, call-
ed after a saint of that name. These, and some other hills in this
parish, rise to a great height. Some of these mountains are in-
terspersed with huge rocks, caverns, andi frightful precipices; in
others, scarce a rock is to, be seen. Till of late they were covered
with black heath; but, since they have been chiefly pastured with
sheep, they begin to exhibit the, pleasing appearance of verdure ;
and some of them are already green to the very tops. The low
lands and valleys form a delightful variety in the surface of this
parishes,
  Soil and Climats.-The soil in the hills is, for the most part,
thin, dry and firm to the tread of cattle. The high glens are
generally wet and spongy, and in some places-abound with deep


