
22                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

keith roads all intersect the parish, besides the railway to Dalkeith,
which passes through a corner of it.   The parish roads are, be-
sides, most admirably kept.  The length of the turnpike roads
is fully twelve miles and besides the Dumfries and London mails,
coaches to Lasswade, Dalkeith, Jedburgh, Carlisle, and Peebles
pass through the parish daily, and some of them more frequently.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is, per-
haps, upon the whole, as good as any that could be found, although
for some parts of the parish it is very inconvenient.  Its distance
from the northern and western extremities of the parish is only about
a mile, wbilst from the eastern extremity it is nearly five miles, and
from the southern extremity three miles.  The remedy for this, how-
ever, is obviously to strike off these districts from the parish altoge-
ther, as it is by far too extensive, and this has now been done with
Gilmerton, and is in progress, as it seems to have been contemplated
in regard to the eastern district as far back nearly as 200 years ago,
as will appear from the following extract from the records of the
Synod, 1650: 11 The whole meeting" of a joint committee of the
Synod and Presbytery of Dalkeith, 11 unanimously voiced that Brun-
stane, and the lands and milns thereto belonging, should be recom-
mended to be annexed to the kirk to be erected at Fisberrow."
The parish church of Liberton was erected in 1815, and has not
been altered since.  It is a very handsome building, with a beau-
tiful tower, and forms a fine object in the landscape.  A vast im-
provement might be made by forming a new approach to it from
the Dumfries road on the west, and ornamenting it with trees.  It
is melancholy to see so little taste displayed by our Scottish heri-
tors, generally, in regard to the exterior and even interior of our
places of worship.  The churches in England are generally mo-
dels in this respect.  The church here contains 1430 sittings, and
is therefore much larger than any church should be.  Seat-letting
prevailed to some extent for 100 years, but was lately  disconti-
nued as an illegal practice, and now the sittings are entirely free.
It appears from the records, that the control of the seats of the
church anciently belonged to the kirk-session.  The manse was
built in 1821, and is a substantial and comfortable building.  The
globe contains only about four acres of land in two detached por-
tions, besides the garden and site of the manse.  Its value is about
L.20 a-year.  The stipend amounts to 20 chalders of grain, with
L.10 for communion elements, and L.10, called Prebend's fees,
from the tithes of Sir David Baird.  The value of the whole sti-


