
290                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

nunciation.  It is a very useful book, and might be very advan-
tageously introduced into public schools.
   Suppression of Churches.--The suppression of the parish and
church of Abbotrule, (said to have been formerly. a pendicle of
Bedrule.) and the uniting it to the already too extensive parishes of
Southdean and Hobkirk, was a most unjustifiable transaction, to
use no harsher term, and hurtful both to the religious and moral
improvement of the people, and withal a most impolitic step.  It
is grievous to think of the many suicidal acts of this nature, which
many presbyteries throughout the Church of Scotland committed
during last century.  Neither of the leading parties of the church
are blameless in this matter; for they seem to have vied with one
another in this absurd conduct, however much they differed in other
things.  In country parishes, the writer firmly believes, that this
suppression and annexation of parishes, and, along with the sup-
pression of the church, the suppression also of the parish schools,
as in the case before us, has been one of the most fertile causes
of dissent.  The church is now reaping the bitter fruits of these
misdeeds, in the bold and menacing attitude which a huge body
of Dissenters in this country have now taken against our Establish-
ment.  It is to be regretted that the Church Extension Committee
have, in all their laborious statistical investigations, never thought
of devoting their attention to this subject.  An investigation into
all the suppressed parishes and churches in Scotland during last
century, would lead to many discoveries, most important at this
critical position of our national church.  It would show how much
the spirit of sectarianism has been promoted in many parts of the
country from this single cause.  It would show how much the pea-
santry in the districts of the suppressed parishes had suffered,-- '
not only from their greater distance from their new parish church,
but from the distance of the school being such as to prevent the
greater part of their children from attending it, for one-half of the
year.
                        III.--POPULATION.
   The population of this parish by the return to Dr Webster in
1175, was 297 souls.  In 1793, the number was about 259.  At
present, according to a census made by the author, the number is
257, of whom 1]6 are males, and 141 females.  In 1832, the
population amounted to 300 and upwards, since which time there
has been a remarkable decrease.  The decrease may be account-
ed for by the decay of cot-houses, and the tendency of late to
                                    3


