
340                      FORFARSHIRE.

covered with heath, and very little mixture of grass, unless in
swamps and sides of burns. The wild raspberry is common, but
the bramble is very rare, although common in some other quar-
ters of Strathmore.
        Botany.-Although there is no particularly rare plant having
its locality in the parish, yet the dens and ravines afford a very
rich and varied display of flowers during the season, in particular
of the avens, geranium, anemonies, &c. &c; and the marshes along
the Dean, of the yellow water-lily and others. Among the more
rare plants, may be noticed the Orobus sylvaticus.
        Mineralogy.-The minerals consist chiefly of different beds of
the oldest sandstone formation which flanks the Grampians,-the
lowest of which are of a gray colour, and underlie all the southern
side of the parish, from a line crossing it a short distance north-
wards of the village, and form the Seidlaw range.
	Their direction is from the north-east to the south-west, and
they dip very uniformly to the north-west, usually at an angle be-
tween ten and twenty degrees.
	Along the northern side, in the centre of the strath, they are over-
laid with beds of a dark brownish-red colour, having a conform-
able direction and dip; they are the newest beds in Strathmore, but
yet much older than the coal, and hence there is none of that use-
ful mineral in the district; neither is there any limestone, beyond
occasional nodules, within the sandstone and veins of calcareous'
spar.
	The grey beds of sandstone are occasionally overlaid with trap
or whinstone, forming the summits of the rising grounds, and at
others much disrupted with dikes and veins of it, having great va-
riety in their mineral character, but not productive of agates; and
such as are to be found are very coarse. There are, however, occa-
sionally beautiful quartz crystals in these rocks, in the Seidlaw
district.
	The mineral character of the sandstone beds varies from coarse
conglomerate or puddingstone, through the intermediate stages
down to calmstone, which consists of impalpable powder, and when
exposed to the weather, decomposes into clay.
	The pebbles and grains are not crystallized, but are water-worn
and conglutinated together by a paste of calcareo-ferruginated mat-
tdr, and are of great variety, the most abundant being brownish-red
quartz, and a species of hornstone. Porphyry, jasper, Lydianstone,




