
     of St Martin's

Price of Labour.-A day-labourer has generally 1 s. a-
day, without victuals, but in harvest he has at least 1 s.
with victuals.  Masons earn from 1 s. 8 d. to 2 s. a-day;
carpenters 1 s. 6 d; tailors 1 s; weavers from 1 s. 6 d. to 
2 s.  A labouring man-servant, qualified to hold the plough,
gets from L. 9 to L. 12 a-year, besides his victuals.  Fe-
male servants from L. 3 to L. 4.

   Manufactures.-The great manufacture of this parish is
flax, which in raising, spinning, weaving, and bleaching it,
occupies the labour of a considerable number of the inha-
bitants.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-Its vicinity to Perth,
seems to be the principal advantage which this parish en-
joys; and want of fuel the greatest disadvantage under
which it labours.

<FOOTNOTE>

The following account of the purnish of St Martin's drawn up in
1711, was sent to Sir John Sinclair, by Dr WILLIAM WRIGHT of 
Register Street. Though it does not contain any information of much
importance, yet it is thought proper to preserve it in this publication, as 
a Specimen of one of the most ancient parochial accounts now extant.

   The Paroch of Saint Martines lies in the Shire and Presbytrie of Perth.

   There are two united paroches, Campsmichael in the Diocess of St
Andrew's, a church belonging to the Abbacy of Scone, where there is 
another little chapple beside the church in the same church-yeard, both 
now ruinous.  And the church of St Martines, where the cure is only
now served, lying within the Diocess of Dunkelden, being a mental
chuch of the Abbey of Holy-rood-house.  The King is patron of Camps-
michael paroch, and the Viscount of Stormonth is titular of the tithes
there.  The bishop of Edinburgh is titular of the tithes of St Martines, and 
patron of that church.  The stipend amounts to four chalders of victual,
two part meal, and third part bear, with four hundred pounds Scots, in
money.  And for the small viccarage tithes, which are valued, together
with fifty marks for the communion-elements, with two gleebs and a
manss

     Vol. XIII. 3 S


