
         		   DINGWALL.                         221

   which tho surrounding country has been brought,--the constant
   and easy communication with an extensive and populous district, --
   together with several other circumstances of a less obvious charac-
   ter, have contributed to increase considerably, the commercial and
   political importance of Dingwall.
      Antiquities.--At the east end of the town may still be seen part of
   the ruins of what once was the chief residence of the Earls of Ross.
   This family, which occupied a distinguished rank among the Scottish
   barons, possessed a great part of the landed property of this dis-
   trict, several of the most considerable proprietors around holding
   their lands by charter from them datdd " apud castrum nostrum
   de Dingwall."  This building, which would seem to have been a
   regular fortification, occupying an area of about half an acre, was
   well situated for defence.  It stood quite close to the shore, the
   deep slimy channel of the Peffery into which the sea flowed wind-
   ing about two of its sides, and a level plain of considerable ex-
   tent surrounding it on the other.  A small fragment of the castle
   wall is all that now remains of it, but even this is capable of giving
   some idea of the solidity and massive proportions of the original
   structure.  The fosse, which surrounded it, may still be traced ;
   and a regular glacis is plainly visible.  After the forfeiture of the
   Earl, the proprietor of the estate of Tulloch was appointed here-
   ditary constable of the castle, with a salary of 20 merks, or L. 1,
   2s. 2 2/3d. Sterling.  Its site is now occupied by a castellated build-
   ing, erected by a naval gentleman, a native of the place, who ob-
   tained the land in feu, and who, by the improvements which he has
   effected, has contributed much to the ornament of the town.
      Near the church stands an obelisk, which, although of no great
   antiquity, attracts the notice of all travellers.  It is erected on an
   artificial mound, occupying about two-thirds of an acre.  The obe-
   lisk is 6 feet square at the base, and rises in a pyramidal form, to
   the height of 57 feet.  It was erected by George first Earl of Cro-
   marty, Secretary of State for Scotland, in the reign of Queen Anne,
   and was intended to ornament and distinguish this spot, which he
   designed to be the family burying-place.
      Towards the north end of the parish, there are the remains of a
   Druidical temple; and there are many similar remains in the neigh-
   bourhood. It stands on a bare moor,--all that now remains of it be-

   <FOOTNOTE>The tenure by which some of these are beld is somewhat singular. One pro-
   prietor in the neighbourhood is bound by his charter to deposit yearly, the castle
   wall, a stipulated quantity of peats.


