
     Statistical Account

   Schools anal Poor.-A new school house was built here very
lately, and a salary of 200 merks Scotch settled on the school-

<FOOTNOTE>

the summer season, the original farm houses on the Clyde were called Mains,
and seem to have been the mansion houses (as in the North Highlands to this
day), where the principal part of the family resided throughout the year.  Such
were the Mains of Mauldslie, Milton, Waygateshaw, Bradwood and Heads:
all comprehending, at a former period, lands running up into the higher part
of the parish-There are, in this parish, 3 places also called Halls, which merit
some attention.  Hall-Bar, Hall-Craig, and Hall-Hill.  Hall-Bar, in the south
of the parish, is an ancient square tower, of a venerable appearance, with a bat-
tlement and garden on the top.  There is a concealed stair leading up to the bat-
tlement and garden.  It is built upon a rock, in a picturesque, romantic,
and very inacessible situation.  It is evident, from its form and situation, it must
at some period have been a place of strength; but the traditions concerning it
are very uncertain Though the lands of Bradwood, around it, have been feu-
ed out by the families of Lauderdale and Carnwath, they have chosen to retain
this tower and small garden, with free "ish and entry," which they only rent at
about 10 s. Sto L. per annum; from which it is probable they considered it as a
valuable piece of antiquity.  Whether it has ever belonged to the Lockharts of
Bar, in Ayrshire, is not known.-Hall-Craig is a modern house at present; but
on the promontory of the rock on which it stands, it appears, that there was
formerly a place of strength, from which it has got its name.  A part of the
old hall is yet visible on the very pinracle of the rock.  The vestiges of some
walls and vaults have been discovered within the garden; and latel there was
dug up, when dressing 'the ground, a causeway, leading in to the point of the
promontory.-Hall-Hill is adjacent to the Earl of Hyndford's new gardens,
near to the rite of the Old Abbey, referred to in the beginning of this account.
As this hill stands just at the entrance to the holm, or rather on the holm itself,
it may, from this circumstance, more probably have derived its name, than from
its vicinity to the old hall of Mauldslie, which stood more than 200 yards to
to the N. W. in a Ice, or sheltered situation, beyond the rivulet.  Perhaps it
should be called Haugh-Hill; it being a singular thing for a hill to be in a
haugh or holm.  The base of this little green mount is evidently artificial, and
its contents, except a small part on the west, a rich, black earth front top to
bottom.  Many human bones have been discovered in it.  A man digging into
the hill lately, on the south side, struck upon a large quantity, as if part of a
charnel house.  The incumbent, when walking upon it, found several human


