
		      CROSS AND BURNESS.                    111

adjoining island of Sanday.  The price given varies from 3d. to
3 1\2d per fish: and it is reckoned a fair fish ing, when each boat catch-
es about 600 fish. -
   To the berring-fishing fourteen boats are furnished by the
island, all above 24 and some of them 28 feet keel.  They
have been built by two workmen in the island, who are in a great
measure self-taught; and they are considered the strongest and finest
boats in Orkney.  They are all held in shares, each the property
of four men, who man them; and sometimes a young person is
hired in as a fifth hand.  As boatmen, they are not deficient either
in skill or boldness; but they have never been very successful in
the fishery, and the last two years have been so unfavourable, that
many have not gained as much as is sufficient to cover their out.
lay.  The station they frequent is in Stronsay, the only one for
the cure of herrings in the north Isles of Orkney.
   Until the summer of the year 1836, the cod-fishing had scarcely
ever been tried here; the people having usually been employed in
making kelp, during the part of the season most suitable for that.
   Tbe greatest drawback the island has to contend with, in carrying
on any fishery that requires large boats, is the want of a safe
anchorage.  The men are obliged to draw up their boats in the prospect,
of bad weather, or shift them from one side of the island to
another,-both of which are the cause of great trouble and in.
convenience.
   Manufactures.- The only kind of manufacture carried on. in the
island, is kelp.  As many as 120 tons have been made in one year,
though the average would not exceed 100. To get even that
quantity requires considerable pushing on the part of the land-
lord; and now that be has no inducement to do so, the average
will be still less.  The kelp from this island had always a high
character in the: market, and has commanded a sale every year.
as yet, though latterly at very low prices.  But as long as it Can
be sold without any actual loss, it will still be an object for the
landlord to get it made; as nearly one-third of the rental is made
up by the allowances given for the manufacture of this article,
which, but for this, would remain unpaid.  The Allowance given
is at the rate of L. 2, 2s. per ton.  A. man with his family will
make a ton and a-half in i ordinary seasons.  It has been lately dis-
covered that, the kelp made of drift sea-weed, is valuable for the
iodine it Contains, and for that purpose is worth L. 4 per ton.


