
172			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

quarter from Castle Douglas, where so large a proportion as two-
thirds of the whole population reside, is a source of great incon-
venience. The present church was built in the year 1805-6,
when it was removed from a low situation in the middle of the
church-yard, to its present elevated, dry, and convenient site. It
is a plain, substantial building, of a rectangular form, 68 feet long
and 42 feet broad within the walls, and has a belfry on the west
gable. Any small repairs that had become necessary were adhibited
in the year 1840, and it is at present in very good order. It was
originally seated for about 740. No distinct provision, however,
was made for the accommodation of the feuars of Castle Douglas,
Rhonehouse, and Gelston; and as the sittings which they were able
to procure in the parts allocated to the heritors, and not occupied
by themselves or their tenants, were found to be quite inadequate,
in the year 1821, a gallery capable of accommodating 130 sitters
was erected by subscription, in the east end of the church. The
sittings were exposed to auction, and were taken with such avidity
as led to the erection of a corresponding gallery in the west end
of the church in the year 1822. The sittings in this gallery also
were immediately taken, and at such prices as in a few years paid
off the whole expenses incurred in these erections, with interest upon
the money subscribed, when the shareholders agreed to devote the
annual sum arising from this source to the promotion of the interests
of education in the parish. It has been accordingly since divided
among the three parochial teachers in the following proportions,
one-half to the teacher in Castle Douglas, and one-fourtb to each
of the schoolmasters in Rhonehouse and Gelston. The church
is thus capable of accommodating easily 1000 sitters. The two
areas, however, having no fixed seats but moveable forms, are used
only at the dispensation of the Lord's supper. They accommodate
from 60 to 70 communicants. None of the sittings are absolute-
ly free, except the forms in the area, which, being very uncom-
fortable, are seldom used. But several pews belong to the kirk-
session, in which the sittings are let at very low prices, as 1s. and
1s. 6d. each. Any person who is unable to pay this small rent, is,
on applying to the session, accommodated with ia free sitting.
About ten sittings are occupied in this way. It would obviously
be very desirable that a new church should be built in Castle
Douglas, and that burgh erected into a separate parish. This
new parish contain upwards of 1800, and leave in the old
parish about 1000 souls.

                         	3


