
852                          PERTHSHIRE.

stones, many of which are burnt or partially fused.  The form is
somewhat like the section of a jargonelle pear cut longitudinally.
-the greatest diameter from east to west being 16 yards, and
from north to south, 24.  Two indistinctly visible outworks, lower
down the hill, as also a winding terraced walk, seem to have been
connected with it. It might have perhaps been designed to guard
the pass into Abernethy Glen, which it overlooks, or to watch the
Roman station below.  Supposing, it to have been a signal-post,
an office for wbich the site and construction of other hill forts
point them out as well adapted, it could communicate with the
vitrified forts on the Law Hill, seven miles east from Dundee;
with those on Evelick and Dunsinnane Hill to the north, with
which it nearly forms a straight line; with Dunmore at the mouth
of Logiealmond, on the northwest; and with its magnificent
namesake, the Castle Law, about six miles west, in Strathearn, in
the same range of hills.
    The Chronicle of the Church of Abernethy is the title of a re-
cord long since lost, but to which there is reference in Fordoun,
and in Innes's quotation from the Bonk of Paisley.  In consequence
of the loss of this document, and also the imperfect and mutilated
state of the records of the diocose of Dunblane, within which
Abernethy was, posterity have perhaps been deprived of much that
would have been interesting in relation to the ecclesiastical and
literary institutions of Abernethy. In order to set aside or depre-
ciate their claims to notice, it has been asked why so little has
been found concerning them in the registers of Scone, or in that
of St Andrews, the metropolitan seat.  This, however, will appear
less surprising if we remember that it was the system of the ca-
nons regular, after they obtained the superiority of the Episcopal
seats and monasteries, to keep the Culdees and their institutions
in the shade as much as possible, and to seek their extinction.
    To the ecclesiastical antiquities of Abernethy, and to the prominent
place which the Culdees (who had their principal seat in
this parish) occupy among those who were witnesses for the truth
in a dark age, by testifying against many of the errors of the
Church of Rome, the public attention has been directed in the
collections of Sir James Dalrymple, and, more recently, in the
Historical Account of the Ancient Culdees of Iona, and their
Settlements in Scotland, England, and Ireland, by John Jamieson,
D.D., F. R. S., F. A. R. E. To these sources the author must


