
                           ALLOA.                             61

in that charge here whence he was translated to Muthil, where he
died, leaving an excellent character. He was succeeded by Mr
Rhind, who died in 1806. The congregation, then, had the ser-
vice of the Episcopal church performed for some years (having no
minister) by the Rev. Dr Russell, now Bishop of Glasgow, and
some others. The first minister subsequently settled amongst then
was the Rev. John Hunter in 1837, who is the present incumbent'
   Education.--In the town of Alloa, there are ten schools, in-
cluding the parish school and the academy. The parish school-
master has the maximum salary, L.34, 4s. 41/2d., with an allowance Of
L. 16 per annum in lieu of house and garden; which sum, now that
rents have risen so exorbitantly high, is insufficient to procure him
such accommodation as is enjoyed by his brethren im any of the
neighbouring parishes. The school fees may amount to about L.25
per annum. The branches taught are, English reading, at 3s. per
quarter; with writing and English grammar, 4s. ; with arithmetic,
5s. ; any or all of these with Latin, 7s. 6d.; with French, Greek,
or Italian, 10s. 6d.; also practical mathematics, geography, book-
keeping, or navigation, 10s. 6d. per quarter; or L.1, 1s. each,
per course. At Alloa Academy, which was erected by subscrip-
tion in 1824, the branches taught by the present rector, Mr Bruce,
are, English reading, English grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-
keeping, geography, Latin, Greek, French, Algebra; the various
departments of practical and theoretical mathematics, including
the higher departments of analytical geometry, trigonometry, and
theoretical mechanics. The fees vary from 5s. to 11s. 6d. per
quarter; 2s. of which, for each pupil, goes to the support of an as-
sistant teacher.There is an annual subscription to pay the feu-
duty, and defray the expense of repairs; and for a considerable
time also a small sum was paid as a salary to the teacher; but this
is not permanent. There are three other schools in the villages,
viz. the Colliery school, one at Tullibody, and one at Cambus,
Connected with the colliery is an excellent schoolhouse, built in
1819, at the sole expense of the late John Francis Earl of Mar.
At last examination, it was attended by 180 scholars. The teach-
er has a salary of about L.21, varying with the fiars, arising from a
bequest of the late lady Charlotte Erskine; besides an allowance in
money from the colliery fund ; a very good dwelling-house and
garden, and free coals. He has also a piece of ground, for only a
small portion of which he has to pay any rent, as upwards of an
acre of it is freely appropriated to his use, through the liberality

 

