
     Statistical Account

zing.  The rent of farms fluctuates, but grass parks com-
monly let well.*  The gross rental of the parish is above
1700 L. Sterling, and the valuation is rated, in the old cess
books of the county, at 3389 L. 5 s. 10 d. Scotch.  There are
in Tillicoultry employed in plowing, carting, and other
country work:

<TABLE>

Horses,            116   Milk Cows,                132
Ploughs             36   Cottagers ditto            63
Carts               89

</TABLE>

   Hill Farms, Sheep and Wool.-The hills have a verdant
and beautiful appearance.  They afford excellent pasture for
sheep, and are divided into 5 farms.  They will maintain
about 3500 sheep; and at an average, an acre will not only
maintain, but fodder one sheep.  The pasture is grass, inter-
spersed with heath, bent and ling.  The heath is short and
wearing out.  The Mill-Glen and Fore-hill farms are infe-

<FOOTNOTE>

*For 15 years past, almost all the farms, which have been let, have been ta-
ken by strangers from other parishes in the neighbourhood, and who are Se-
ceders.  If the present system proved for other 15 years, the greatest part, of
not the whole of the parish, will be possessed by persons not belonging to
the established church.  It is but doing justice to a worthy man, (whose
sweetness of temper, benevolence of heart, and gentlemany behaviour, will be
remembered with pleasure, at least while the present generation lasts,) to men-
tion, that Mr BARCLAY MAIDLAND improved and beautified the parish in a
high degree, by his numerous inclosures and plantations.  His taste and atten-
tion every where appear.  Mr TAIT also merits praise for his improvements
on the lands of Harvieston, which he has wholly enclosed.  He has carried on
his improvements, for many years, with much spirit and judgment, and, it is
presumed, with great advantage to himself.  His uniform practice has been to
fallow his fields, and, after manuring them well with dung and lime, to sow
them with barley and grass seeds.  One of his inclosures, which contains
and a half Scotch acres, has been let this season for grazing, at 4 guineas
per acre, the rent being 23 L. 2 s. Sterling.


