
        		KIRRIEMUIR.                        173

was fought in 1447, no fewer than 500 Ogilvys fell, which must
have been a severe stroke to Kirriemuir.
	The Catherines.--At no very remote period it was not accounted
dishonourable for polite clans to commit depredations on each other.
It was usual for the Highlanders beyond the Grampians to put
themselves under the command of some warlike chieftain, to form
themselves into bands of Catherines, as they were called, and to
levy from all the farmers in their neighbourhood a contribution,                    -
under the name of black-mail, to secure their forbearance or pro-
tection. The fine country of Strathmore could not escape their
depredations, and many a tale is told of their incursions. We are
informed, that, even so early as 1392, three chiefs of the name of
Donnechy, instigated or commanded by Duncan Stewart, a natural
son of the turbulent Earl of Buchan, came down to ravage this district;
and that a bloody battle took place in the Stormonth, in which Sir
John Ogilvy, of this parish, was slain, with many of his followers.
	Feud between Forfar and Kirriemuir.--At one time feuds were
not uncommon between rival towns, as well as between rival fami-
lies. The feud between Perth and Dundee is alluded to by Dr
Small in his Statistical Account of the latter of these towns.
There was one equally bitter, though not equally important, be-
tween the royal burgh of Forfar and the baronial burgh of Kirrie-
muir. The origin of this feud was trifling,--a dispute respecting
a piece of ground, called the Muir Moss, which was claimed by
both parishes, but which was of little value to either. The con-
test was exceedingly violent. There is a humorous story connect-
ed with this feud, which is found recorded in the brief biographi-
cal notice of Drummond the poet, the friend of Johnson and
Shakspeare, prefixed to the folio edition of his works. *

<FOOTNOTE>In the year 1645, when the plague was raging in Scotland, this eminent person
came accidentally to Forfar, but was not allowed to enter any house, or to get lodg-
ing in the town; which forced him, though it was very late, to direct his course to
Kirriemuir, where he was well received and kindly entertained. Being informed of
the feud which subsisted between the two towns respecting the Muir moss, he wrote a
letter to the Provost of Forfar, to be communicated to the town-council in haste. It
was imagined that this letter came from the Estates, then sitting at St Andrews. The
common council was summoned with all expedition, and the minister was sent for to
assist them with his advice, and the letter was opened in a solemn manner. It con-
tained the following lines:
	The Kirriemorians and Forfarians met at Muir moss,
	The Kirriemorians beat the Forfarians back to the Cross;
	Sutors ye are, and sutors ye'll be,
	Fye upon Forfar, Kirriemuir bears the gree.
Some anecdotes connected with the Rebellion of 1715 and 1745, also with the


