
                            ST MADOES.                           611

and west. From the north wind, which is generally so blighting,
we are greatly sheltered by  the hills that form the northern boun-
dary of the Carse of Cowrie.
     From the previous statements a pretty correct idea may be
formed of the climate in thir part of the country. In salubrity it
may compete with any part of Scotland. A superabundance of
moisture, at a period not more remote than sixty years, rendered
it productive of ague; but from the extensive drainage to which
the land has been subjected, and the consequent disappearance of
those marshy exhalations so pernicious to health, the disease re-
ferred to is now never heard of, nor is there any other disease which
can be said to be peculiar to the climate. Typhus fever has
sometimes prevailed, though not in its most fatal type, and its in-
troduction could generally be traced to individuals who, had brought
it from some infect ed town or district. Pulmonary affections are
rare, calculous complaints almost unknown, and apoplectic at-
tacks very uncommon. Colds, rheumatisms, and inflammations
are our most prevalent distempers.
     Hydrography.___As already stated, the Frith of Tay forms the
southern boundary of the parish. It is here something more than
a mile in breadth. Its greatest depth at high water averages 17 feet.
     A pow or drain, in which is a sluggish stream, winds along the
north and west sides of the parish, forming the march between it
and portions of Kinfauns and Kinnoul. It ir almost dry during
the summer months, but in winter and autumn its banks are fre-
quently overflowed, owing to the quantity of water, which, after
heavy falls of rain or snow, it receives from the braes of the Carse.
When these overflowings occur, they sometimes do injury, by soak-
ing or floating away the, unhoused grain that may be within their
reach, and always by driving mud into the drains, many of which
emptx themselves into the pow.
     Spring.___There are several springs, which may be called per-
ennial, in the parish. One of these, which is situated in the
flower garden of Pitfour, is worthy of particular notice. It sends
forth a very strong current at all times, the quantity varying little
in summer or winter. Its supply is at the rate of 20 gallons im-
perial per minute. In some distant age it had no doubt been
deemed, worth of sacred regard, for the name by which it is still
designated is Tranty or Trinity.
     Geology.___The whole district of the Carse of Growie, as is well
kwon to geologists, rests upon what is termed the old red sand-



