
			DRYFESDALE.	                 457

let for L. 24 per annum. The amount of stipend, not including
the glebe, is just L. 198, 18s. 6d.
	There is an Antiburgher meeting-house at the south end of
Lockerbie, established about ninety years ago. The minister
is paid by the congregation, in general from the surrounding pa-
rishes. The stipend is about L. 95 per annum. There are two
Sabbath school institutions in winter; the number of children at-
tending that connected with the Established Church is about 120
in summer about 70. The Established Bhurch is very well attend-
ed; the average number of communicants is 600.
	Education.--There is one parochial school in this parish, be-
sides six private unendowed ones,-,three of which are taught by
females. The branches of education commonly taught in the paro-
chial schools are, Greek, Latin, French, with English,--writing,
arithmetic, book-keeping, and practical geometry, &c. &c. In
one of the unendowed schools, these are also generally taught.
The salary of the parish schoolmaster is L. 34, 4s. 4d. He has
every legal accommodation. Every person in the parish above fif-
teen years of age can both read and write. About eight young men
go annually to attend the different classes at the University of
Glasgow and Edinburgh.
	Libraries.--There are two libraries,--one a parochial subscrip-
tion, and the other a circulating one, in Lockerbie ; besides a pub-
lic reading-room, having many of the Scotch and English newspa-
pers of the day.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of poor per-
sons receiving parochial relief is 18,--each receiving about the ave-
rage sum of from 1s. to 1s. 6d. per week. The average amount of
contributions and free donations to assist the poor is about L. 25 per
annum,--which, with church collections, may amount to the sum of
L. 65, with the interest of L. 100*,--which is, each winter, expend-
ed by the kirk-session for coalr to the poor. These are barely suf-
ficient to supply the necessitous poor. The people are very liberal
and benevolent to their own poor, but they are continually annoyed
by an immense influx of vagrants and beggars from distant places.
There is still a great desire on the part of some more of the poor
to get their names enrolled with those that are already receiving
weekly relief; and therefore they do not consider it degrading.
	Jail.--There are no jails nearer than those of Lochmaben and

<FOOTNOTE>This L. 100 was the legacy of Mr Aitchison of Oulney, formerly mentioned.
The original sum was L. 65, which was gradually increased to its present amount.
	DUMFRIES.                             G g


