
          370                       PERTHSHIRE.

          between one and two degrees higher than the mean daily tempera-
          ture for the respective months.
             The average of the greatest heights which the thermometer has
          reached for seven years, is 76&deg; and that of the lowest to which it
          has sunk is 19&deg;.
             As to the pressure of the atmosphere, it may be stated, that the
          aver`ge height of the barometer, at a quarter past nine o'clock A. M.
          for seven years, is 29.648, and at half-past eight o'clock P. M.,
          29.657. With one exception, the average of any one month, during
          these years, has not varied from this more than a few decimals;
          but there have been some rare instances in which the instrument
          has been as high as 30.40, 30.50, and even 30.56, and others in
          which it has been as low as 28.44, 28.38, and even 28.10.
             As to the prevailing winds of this district, it is enough to men-
          tion, that, on an average of seven years, there are found to have
          been 172 days on which the wind has been from the south and
          south-west; 138 on which it has been from the east and south-
          east; 89 on which it has been from the west and north-west; and
          23 on which it has been from the east and north-east.  The most
          frequent rains, however, are from the east, owing, no doubt, to the
          proximity of the German Ocean in that direction, the accumula-
          tion of vapour from which is one of the surest prognostics of rain.
             The climate is mild, and, on the whole, rather dry than moist.
          On an average of twelve years, the number of fair days in the
          year is found to be 211, and the number of days on which there
          has been rain or snow is 154.  The average quantity of rain which
          falls within the year, is 26 inches.  In ordinary years, harvest
          commeneces by the middle of August, and is quite general in the
          third week of that month.  The climate on the whole is salubri-
          ous.
             It is proper to add, that less snow falls on the Carse than on the
          surrounding districts, and that what does fall on it sooner disap-
          pears.
             Hydrography.-The Tay is tle only river or frith which is
          connected with this parish-forming, as has been already stated,
          its southern boundary.  Along the whole of this line, the Tay may
          be considered as a frith rather than a river, since it has at this
          part of its course acquired an average breadth of little less than
          two miles.  The ordinary increase of depth, at the time of stream
          tides, is about I3 or 14 feet, but, under particular circumstances,
          it sometimes amounts to fully 17 feet.


