
   1138                         PERTHSHIRE.

     During several years subsequent to the Revolution, this and the
  other parishes of the presbytery of Dunkeld were annexed to the
  presbytery of Perth.  It is only on the 29th October 1706, that
  the Dunkeld records state, that the ministers of said presbytery
  met for the first time after their disjunction from the presbytery
  of Perth, and "that Mr Alexander Glass, minister at Kinclaven,
  was, by a plurality of voices, chosen moderator." This Mr Alex-
  ander Glass was the father of Mr John Glass, the celebrated
  founder of the religious denomination called after his name, and
  whose history is familiar to every one acquainted with the eccle-
  siastical transactions of the period in which he lived.  Mr Alex-
  ander Glass was succeeded in 1725 by Mr James Fisher, of
  whom we sliall afterwards speak; and, on his deposition, he was
  succeeded in 1742 by Mr James Bishop, who, dying in 1774,
  was succeeded in 1775 by Mr John Scott.  At his death, in
  1800, Mr Robert Keay succeeded as minister of this parish, and
  was, in 1811, translated to the Canongate Chapel in Edinburgh,
  but, in a few years, returned to the West Church Parish in Perth,
  where he died in 1819.  Mr Keay was succeeded at Kinclaven

  in 1812 by Mr Robert S. Walker, the present respectable mi-
  nister of Longforgan, to which lie was translated in 1822; and,
  in the following year, he was succeeded by the writer of the pre-
  sent article.
     This parish is rather remarkable as being one of the original
  seats of thd Secession.  The Rev.  James Fisher, minister of the
  parish, was the son-in-law of the Rev. Ebenezer Erskine, and
  warmly espoured his cause.  In the session records, under date
  8th October 1732, the following short notice occurs: "Service
  here this day by Mr Ebenezer Erskine, minister of the Gospel at
  Stirling;" and on the Tuesday following, Mr Erskine opened the
  Synod at Perth.  On that occasion, be preached the sermon which
  was the cause of the proceedings against him in the ecclesiastical
  courts, which terminated in the Secession.  The kirk-session of
  this parish seems to have taken a zealous interest in all these pro-
  ceedings against him and his reverend coadjutors and brethren,
  many protestations and resolutions relative thereto being inserted
  in the records; and on the 25th October 1736, they formally re-
  solved to adhere to the Associate presbytery; "and upon a leet,
  they made choice of Thomas Watson, as their ruling elder, to at-
  tend the meetings of the Associate presbytery for the ensuing
  half-ye`r."  The minutes of session subsequent to July 1738 un-
                                   3


