
68                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

is an eminence, already mentioned, and known by the name of the
Roman Camp.  On this eminence, there are evidently the remains
of an ancient enclosure, supposed to have been a Roman station,
but at what period is uncertain.  Being now crowded with trees
it cannot be accurately examined.  It appears, however, to be of
a quadrangular form, and has an opening to the south-east.  It
contains about three acres of ground, and from its lofty position,
it seems to have been wisely chosen, both as a place of defence
and of observation.
   Modern Buildings.-New battle Abbey, the seat of the Marquis
of Lothian, is a modern building; and the plan of it, especially
within, discovers the taste and judgment of the architect, as it is
exceedingly commodious.  In the library, which is voluminous and
valuable, are several manuscripts in folio, written upon vellum, and
every page of them is adorned with pictures, emblematic of the
respective subjects of which they treat.  Of these the most highly
finished are the following: Jean Boccace des cas des noble Hom-
mes et F. Fammes, 1409: John Tikyt hymni: Titus Livius, per
P. Berceun: Augustin de la Cite de Dieu.
   In all of them, the figures are coloured and gilded with so much
delicacy and richness, as to afford an excellent specimen of the la-
bour and elegance with which they have been executed.  These
manuscripts had, in former times, belonged to the Abbey, the
monks of which were of the Cistertian order.  It was founded and
endowed by David I.  A copy of the original grant is still in exis-
tence.  A wall surrounded it, which retains the name of the Monk-
land wall, but it is now far from being entire.  The present house
is built upon the spot which was formerly occupied by the monas-
tery, and stands surrounded by a level lawn, containing from thirty
to forty acres of ground.  It is watered on the one side by the
river South Esk, the only river in the parish, which, after descend-
ing through the rocks of Arniston and Cockpen, flows along the
park in a quiet stream, and is overhung with flourishing planta-
tions.  On the other side, it is skirted by a waving line of woods,
which, complying with the ascents and swellings of the banks, are
seen rising above one another, and exhibit a beautiful variety of
shades.  These woods, nearly meeting at each end, form the lawn
into a kind of amphi theatre, in the middle of which, as you ap-
proach from the south, there is an avenue 520 yards long, lined
on each side with trees of the most majestic size.  On this ap-
proach, where it crosses the village of Newbattle, there stands a
venerable looking gate, whose antique appearance is greatly admir-


