
     of Bendothy.

tation.  This is proposed as a subject for a premium by the
Highland Society.  But I doubt the singularity of my pro-
ject would operate against my pretensions,-to keep a thing
from frost in an ice-house!
   The potatoe is the true root of Scarcity, which promises
to let Famine at defiance.  The poorer sort of people dine
and sup chiefly on potatoes, in the season of them.  But
those that are in a state of servitude, are commonly above
eating potatoes.  Potatoes* are useful for horses in the
spring; they eat them raw.
   Turnips are sown the first week of June in drills, the
ground having been ploughed (and cleaned) two or three
times before sowing.  There is the same space left between
the drills and between the plants, as in the case of potatoes;
and they are cleaned and dressed in the same manner.  Sow
them when the ground is wet, or prepare your ground, and
wait for rain, even a fortnight.  They are ready to take
up by the middle of November; some of the ball of them
are a foot diameter, seldom less than 6 inches.  An acre
feeds 2 cattle, and puts L. 3 Sterling worth of beef upon
each.  Both turnip and potatoes are dunged.
   Clover and ryegrass+ are often sown out with barley,

<FOOTNOTE>

The substance called shot stars is nothing else than frosted potatoes.
A night of hard frost, in the end of autumn, in which those meteors called
falling stars are seen, reduces the potatoe to the consistence of a jelly, or
soft pulp, having no resemblance to a potatoe, except when part of the skin
of the potatoe adheres below undissolved.  This pulp remains soft and fluid
when all things else in nature are consolidated by frost; for which reason it
is greedily taken up by crows and other fowls, when no other sustenance is
to be had, so that it is often found by man in the actual circumstance of
having fallen from above, having its parts scattered and dispersed in the
fall, according to the law of falling bodies.  This has given rise to the
name and vulgar opinion concerning it.
   +Rye-grass.-The most troublesome weed to farmers, and which it is
the object of fallow chiefly to destroy, is that sort of grass called Quicken.


