
     Of Clackmannan.

     Lakes, Rivers, Tides, etc.-The river Forth forms the
S. boundary of this parish.  It is a mile in breadth, and
of a depth suffecient for very large vessels.  It has two
pows or creeks in the parish; Clackmannan pow on the
W. boundary, and that of Kennetpans towards the E.,
about a mile and a half distant from the other:  both of
which are in the district of the port of Alloa.  The pow
of Clackmannan is formed by the mouth of the river
Black Devon.  The mean depth of water at the usual
shipping place, is 10 feet, and 20 feet at the mouth of the
harbour.  It was formerly crooked, and run out a consi-
derable way to the W., but was made streight, and deep-
ened in 1772, by the proprietor, Sir Lawrence Dundas:
The pow at Kennetpans, belonging to Mr. Bruce of Ken-
net, is much smaller than the other, but capable of being
greatly enlarged.  It has 17 feet of water at spring tides*.

     4 H 2

<FOOTNOTE>

tims to its direful influence.  It was more fatal in the village than in
the neighbourhood.  This, perhaps, may have been owing to the little 
care that is taken to keep the streets clean.  Before every door is a dung-
hill, on which every species of nunsance is thrown, without the least re-
gard to decency and cleanliness, so that the infection spreads with rapid
progress.
   In 1789, a nervous fever, with very ardent symptoms, proved fatal to
several stout young men in the lower part of the parish.  Since that time,
it has appeared in other parts, but with much less violence; though, in
some instances, protracted to great length.
   From many circumstances, it is highly probable, that the river was
much broader at this place in former times, than at present.  A vil-
lage, called Ferrytown, at the distance of five turlongs from the river,
seems to have once stood on its banks.  The intervening ground still goes
by the name of Saltgrass, and is under the level of high spring tides,
which strong sea walls, or banks, prevent from overflowing it.  One of
these walls seems to have been built at a very early period:  too flight
and superficial, however, to resist the violence of the tides, which fre-
quently broke it down, and overflowed the land, till at length a reduc-


