
                     KIRKCALDY.                        763

   The manse was built in 1808, and is in good repair; but the
offices are in a ruinous state.  About six acres of land belong to
the minister, consisting of glebe-land, and land enjoyed from a
private mortification, in very nearly equal proportions.  Its annual
value is about L.36.
   The modified stipend is 19 chalders, but teinds to this amount
have not yet been found.  A protracted process of locality was
carried on, which was terminated in 1840; and there is a defi-
ciency of L.48, 8s. 9d. of teind to make up the stipend modified.
The interest of the money spent in this process would very nearly
have paid this deficiency to the minister in all time coming.  The
expense of the process first and last must have been L.1000.  The
present stipend is paid according to a decreet of locality-obtained
in 1737, and is 120 bolls, 2 firlots, and 1 1/2 lippies barley; 79
bolls, 3 firlots, and 2 1/4 lippies oats; and L.13, 1s. 3 8/18d. for vicar-
age and communion elements.  The late augmentation is 1 firlot, 3
pecks, and 1 7/8 of a lippie of barley, and L.44, 0s. 9 3/4d. in money.
The decreet of 1737, which is still the rule of payment, gives the
teind of fish according to use and wont; but nothing is realized
from this item.
   The ecclesiastical state of this parish has undergone several
important changes.   From an early date, and for a long period,
the ministerial charge of the parish was collegiate.  The Crown
is patron of the first charge, and the town council were patrons of
the second.  Prior to 1650, one-half of the second minister's sti-
pend was paid by the town, the other half by the heritors.  This
is stated in the beginning of the oldest volume of the kirk-session
records: " Steipend payed to the second minister of Kirkcaldie,
viz. 800 merks, equalie divyded by the toune and parosch."  In
1612, the town agreed to be assessed for their proportion of the
second minister's 'stipend.  The same day, October 14, 1612,
" David Huchone, baillie, declarit to the haill nybouris of the
comunitie thair present, that Mr Ihone Gillespie, minister, was

<FOOTNOTE>mentations of the wounded, the frantic and terrific-like appearance of those emerg-
ing from the broken beams and rafters, are circumstances not easy to be effaced from
the minds of those who were called to witness them."  It was a considerable time,
amid the panic and confusion that immediately followed the dreadful crash, before
the amount of destruction could be ascertained.  The killed and wounded were at
speedily as possible extricated from the ruins, when it was found that sixteen females
and twelve males had nerished.  Few were killed by the failing of the gallery.  The
greater part of the twenty-eight were either suffocated by the pressure of the crowd
striving to get out, or having lost their balance, fell down, and were trodden to death.
A lively recollection of the awful scene makes many nervous, and fills them with
alarm when there is an appearance of the church being crowled.


