
                                  PERTH.                           41

	 There were, as there still are, perforations in the arched roof of
      the Old, now Middle Church, immediately under the tower, through
      which the bell ropes were let down for the convenience of the
      ringers.  And it was a frequent practice to make delinquents, as a
      particular mark of disgrace, stand under these before the congre-
      gation.
         The place where such tragic scenes as the one now narrated
      were perpetrated, is said to have been a hollow in the North Inch.
         Royal bounty towards the Town.-The following is a speci-
      men of the success of flattering adulation on the mind of King
      James VI.  It is a letter by the town-council to his Majesty,
      petioning his bounty towards the repairhng the Bridge of Perth,
      and the result of it: "Moist gratious Soveragne, above all zour
      Mj subjectis in this zour Mj aldest kingdome, we have caus to
      esteem zour Mj as our father, zea, and as the breathe of our
      nosethrilles, for, besyde the commoun ressones, for quhilj wtheris
      of the land may glorie that they have interest in zour Mj dele-
      verance ainoiig ws, our commoun welth, our selff, our childrene,
      were moist gratiouslie deleverit from vtter exterminioun, our li-
      berties gewin at the first by zour Mj moist nobill progeni-
      touris, worne almoist without vigour, revivit by zourselff, so that
      your grace is restorit vrbi prope modum . . . illud quondam
      vigintatis etatis, our debaittis with our neighbouris for the privil-
      lege of our Water of Tay, zour Mj, as a Solomon, indeed a Prince
      of Peace, a visdome wer tymeouslie remowit, we haid caus to know,
      quam difficilis sint exitus veterum Imagiorum, and therefore wer the
      moir comforted at zour Mj fatherlie foirsicht, quhairby for zour Mj
      departure frome ws, cause dize plectanti tandem stabilem terminum
      quasi diuino -ore . . *  . . And now for the experience of
      zour Mj moist lowing affectioune toward ws makes us balde to
      crave that zour Mi wald not withdraw zour helping h`nd frome
      that wark quhairinto once zour Mj hed put it, ffor at zour Mj com-
      mand, we have begun the building of the brig of Tay, and hes
      brocht it ane gude way fordward without the help of ony saffeing
      zour Mj, we repairit upon our sute, directed to zour Mj, at Tishy&,
      thall, the grant of sewin tbousandis poundis money of this realme,
      quhilk is in sic sort payit, that ewerie zeir we resaive ane thousand
      poundis tharof ; and quhill that zour Mi wes resident amang ws,
      zour Mj granted to ws, for forderance of that wark, exemptioun

      <FOOTNOTE>The words are obliterated in the record from which I have copied  obove
       letters.


