
                              JOHNSTONE.                     155

	In the rivers Annan and Kinnel there is abundance of small trout.
Salmon and salmon-trout were also formerly numerous at all sea-
sons of the year, and the proprietor derived a small rent from the
fisheries. For the last twenty years, however, so few have come
up the rivers at the time when they are at all valuable, in conse-
quence of the perfection to which the mode of fishing with stake-
nets has been brought by the proprietors on the mouth of the river,
and on the adjoining banks of the Solway Frith, (and which detains
the fish of almost every description both at the ebbings and flowings
of the tide,) that the fishings have become no object, and have not
therefore been let. They still come up in great numbers from the
sea in the floods of September and October, for the purpose of
spawning, and return in the months of March and April to the
Solway.
	The cockhafer (Melolontha vulgaris,) which often does not incre-
dible mischief to the pastures in the south and west of England,
has been found, though rarely, in this parish, but its larva has not
been observed. From the variety of soil, and the great extent of
woods and plantations, a wide field of investigation is presented to
the Entomologist. A great variety of insects has, indeed, already
been found in the vicinity of Raehills, some of which are very rare.
Of these we may enumerate the following, viz. Leiodes piceus, Stron-
gylus fervidus, Byrrhus aeneus, Ips quadripustulata, Lesteva
Leachii, Drepanepteryx phalaenoides, Polia olivacea,* Chironomus
elegans, and several other new species which have been hitherto
described.
	Botany.--In the woods we find in great abundance, Adoxa mos-
chatellina, Lysimachia vulgaris, Campanula persicifolia, and more
rarely Pyrola media. On the heaths and marshy grounds we meet
with Pinguicula vulgaris, Menyanthes trifoliata, andromeda poli-
folia, Narthecium ossifragum, Drosera rotundifolia, and Vaccinium
oxycoccos. On the sandy grounds, by the sides of the rivers, we
find Hypericum humifusum, H. perforatum, H. pulchrum, Ononis
arvensis, &c. besides many species of that puzzling and imperfectly
described genus Hieracuim.
	At Lochwood, the ancient seat of the Marquises of Annan-
dale, and near Raehills, the seat of John James Hope John-

<FOOTNOTE>
	 This new species, (Polia olivacea,) which is described in the third volume of
Stephen's Illustrations of British Entomology, was first discovered at Cramond, near
Edinburgh, by the Rev. William Little, to whom we are indebted for the above inte-
resting communication.


