
                     FALA AND SOUTRA.                    541

The inhabitants are pre-eminently a church-going population.
Many of them are remarkable for their knowledge of the Holy
Scriptures. Their humble cottages are the frequent scenes of
domestic prayer and praise, while the youth partake largely of
the nurture and admonition of the Lord, administered with paren-
tal care and tenderness.
   On the eastern slope of the hill whose summit the church
crowns, and still at a considerable elevation, stands the manse,
with its garden within a substantial enclosure. The glebe, of
nearly eight acres, adjoins, and there is another glebe of about
six acres on Soutra's summit, besides a right of pasturage for
pony, cows, and sheep. The stipend from Fala is L. 17 per an-
num, and from Soutra, L. 20, 12s. 7d. Sterling, 24 bolls 2 firlots
oats, and 20 bolls 2 firlots bear,-emoluments, which the writer
of the former Statistical account, when there was no Exchequer
allowance, describes as "very inadequate to the subsistence of a
family, unless they are clothed, like the Baptist of old, in coats of
skins, and live, too, like him, upon locusts and wild honey." The
manse, which was new at the date of the last Account, received
several important additions and repairs in 1831, and is now a com-
fortable dwelling. The minister of the Secession church is also
furnished with a house suitable for his accommodation.
   Education.-At a short distance from the church, stands the
parochial school and the master's dwelling. The former is suffi-
ciently commodious, though very numerously attended; the latter
is of the narrowest dimensions and most irregular construction.
There is no other school within the bounds of the parish.
   The schoolmaster's salary, which is stated in the former Sta-
tistical Account as "not the largest in Scotland, being only L. 2,
4s. 4d.," is now the maximum; but, as the fees of scholars do not
average more than 10s. per annum each, the schoolmaster of
Fala, like most of his fellow-labourers in other parishes, is very
inadequately remunerated.

   November 1844.

   EDINBURGH.                          M m


