
     Statistical Account.

<TABLE>

Proportion of births, do.               Valued rent, Scotch    L. 4750
                              1 to 32   Real rent, sterling    L. 4030
           of deaths do.                English acres             5120
                              1 to 42   Average rent per acre        16 s.
Inhabited houses            180         Horses                     108
Average number of per-                  Black-cattle               778
   sons in each house         5         Sheep                     1517

</TABLE>

   The present incumbent had occasion some dozen of years a-
go to take an accurate list of the inhabitants upon a rumour of
a Scottish militia, and finds they are now more numerous by
98.  The increase is to be alcribed entirely to Lord Swinton's
judicious attention to improve and enlarge his village of Swin-
non, partly by perpetual feus, and partly by leases of 999 years,
which last mode gave great offence, and made some of the te-
nants ask what was to become of their houseless posterity at the
end of that period.  The real increase lies upon this village, as
the other parts of the parish rather must decrease, for these rea-
sons; universal inclosing has in a great measure superseded
hands; two horse-ploughs, where the same man holds and
drives, have made fewer boys necessary; and farms becoming
larger, and grazing prevailing more, fewer hands are requir-
ed to cultivate them.  Swinton has increased rapidly.  About
30 years ago there were not 100 persons in it; whereas it now
contains 351 souls; and it is inconceivable how many of the
necessaries of house-keeping, and how many conveniencies can
he now found here, which 25 years ago the inhabitants had
to send many miles for*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is almost impossible that any parish in this place should die for want of
the necessaries of life.  Against to dreadful a disafter the securities are a fertile
soil, a very regular poor's rate, a humane people, both gently and others be-
ing ready to contribute liberally where any extraordinary case claims their at-


