
     Statistical Account

   Seats, Antiquities, etc.-The only gentlemens seats in
the parish are Balcomie, Wormiston and Ardrie; the houses
of West-barns and Newhall have been demolished.  In
the line of antiquities there is nothing very remarkable;
the prior walls, which stand close to the sea below the east
end of the town, have been already mentioned.  Upon the
point of land a little to the south-west of the harbour, there
are same traces of a building, which has given the name of
Castle Hyne to a small creek or inlet among the rocks.  In
the vicinity, some stone coffins have lately been found.  The
remains of an old castle overlook the harbour upon the east.
In it King David I. frequently resided; hence Crail be-
came a constabulary, extending westward to Kincraig
Nooke.  Sibbald, in his history of Fife, says, that this mo-
narch died here; in general, he is supposed to have died at
Carlisle in Cumberland.  The similarity of the names
Carryle and Carlisle, has probably occasioned the mistake.
Upon the rite of this castle, a gentlemen has lately erected
a neat summer-house, which commands a fine prospect, and
having a battery of small cannon mounted upon its top, it
makes an excellent appearance from the sea*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the lift of antiquities, the Dines dike mail not be forgotten.  It
is the remains on a bulwark of dry stones, raised, it is said, in out night by
the Danes, who having been defeated by the Scots at the water of Leven
in 874, retreated eastward till they came to the extreme point of Fife,
which they fortified in this manner, to defend themselves against the at-
tacks of their victors us enemies, till they had an opportunity of embark-
ing on board their ships, which were hovering in the mouth of the frith.
The mound is quite overgrown with grass but it is distinctly to be traced
for a considerable way across the point.  The large space which it in-
closes, with some other circumstances which strike an attentive observer
upon the ground, might perhaps justify some degree of scepticism apart
the subject.  Near this dike is the small cave in which the Danes put to
death Constantine the Scottish King, whom they had taken prisoner in a
skirmish as they retreated.  The only other antiquity in the parish which


