
ABERCROMBIE.                            353

it has' greatly declined from its original efficiency, and seems verg-
ing to total extinction.
Education.-We have one parochial school. The average num-
ber attending was given in at last examination at 51 boys and 35
girls = 86. The schoolmaster has the legal accommodations, and
the maximum salary. His fees are, reading per quarter, 2s ; writing
2s. 6d. arithmetic, 3s.; Latin, 5s. ; no additional charge has hither-
to been made for English grammar or geography. The fees may
amount to L. 25, or L. 30 a year. The parochial schoolmaster,
altogether proprio motu, carries on efficiently and acceptably a
Sabbath evening school. There is annther school in St Monan's
upon the teacher's own adventure. I do not understand his
fees or the branches taught to be diff-erent from those of the
parochial school. He is of the Established Church, his num-
bers 67. There his been recently established in the parish
by Lady Anstruther of Baleaskie, an infant school,.which is also
supported by her ladyship, and promises to be of great benefit
to the place. Norie of the children at other schools in the pa-
rish, cost less than 2s per quarter, none more than 5s. There is
no quarter of the parish so distant from school, as to be a bar to
attendance. There are no additional schools required. But a
-sewi7ig school might possibly be of advantage. From the irregular
attendance of children at school the people here might be thought
less alive to the benefits of education than they really are. But
they are so dependent upon the services of the children in some of
the fishing departments, that they are constrained to keep them
from school when they would be glad that they could attend it.
Many'parents, however, are culpably remiss in enforcing atten-
dance.
Friendly Societies.- Of friendly societies we have the following:
The Sea-box Society, supposed to have been instituted about the
time of the union of the Crowns. Its articles are fair and judicious,
but too numerous and complicated for insertion and it were diffirent
Cult to make a selection. There is one important improvement
which the society have recently sanctioned. While they pronounce'
it necessary, that sea-faring people shall always constituth a clear
majority of the. members of the society; and while they find coun-
tenance in this from the practice of the generality of.friendly so-
cieties, they resolve, ,that, with the preference specified, persons, of
whatever occupation, shall be alike eligibk as to admission, and
equally so, with regard to the benefit4 as well as the offices and

FIFE,                                   Z


