
76                         KINCARDINESHIRE.

of a pale yellowish colour, or black moorish soil, often on a re-
tentive bottom.
	Zoology.--The different varieties of birds are not so numerous
as in the south of Scotland; but Fordoun certainly is frequented
by as many as any other parish in the county. In the hills are
grouse, and occasionally, but seldom, black game; lower down,
the woodcock is often to be met with. The snipe, plover, teal,
and wild duck are common; but, from the want of lakes and
marshes, these are not so plentiful as formerly. Hawks and kites
are abundant, as also the raven and carrion or hooded crow; the
common rook in myriads. Numbers of wood pigeons infest the
district, and in winter do much injury to the turnip crops. The
common owl and bat are frequently seen in the evenings. The
magpie is common; the jack-daw and jay less so. The thrush,
blackbird, cliaffinch, lark, linnet, bunting lark, with the robin and
wren, form the principal birds of song; the goldfinch and bull-
finch being by no means plentiful. The stone and wbin-chat are
also to be found in the parish. The missel-thrush, fieldfare,
snow-flake, and snow-bunting appear in winter; the swift, swallow,
martin, lapwing, land-rail, and cuckoo, are the summer birds of
passage; the heron frequents the burns, and numbers of gulls
may be seen at all times, particularly during the seed time. Phea-
sants were introduced some years ago. They are not plentiful, but
are still visible at Drumtochty, and occasionally in other parts of
the parish. Partridges are abundant everywhere.
	Sometimes in summer, a stray roebuck may be observed on its
passage from the sea to the highlands. The alpine or white hare
is occasionally to be met with on the Grampians; the common
hare is abundant, and rabbits far too much so. Rabbits were in-
troduced into the county about twenty years ago, and now cause
more destruction to the crops than all other descriptions of game
in the county. To extinguish them seems hopeless, and the calls.
for compensation by the tenantry for the injury caused by them
are neither infrequent nor unjust. The fox still subsists by ra-
pine, but his prey is rather rabbits than poultry,--the hen roosts
being now far too well secured to be entered by stealth as for-
merly. The otter is seen, though but rarely, stealing along the
banks of a stagnant pool; and the polecat is known rather from
his depredations than by ocular demonstration. The hedgehog
and weasel are occasionally met with, but the badger is supposed


