
                            LIFF AND BENVIE.                     581

        Subterraneous Caves and Buildings.-In the former Account of
this parish, a full and interesting description is given of a subter-
raneous building, discovered, it is said, a few years before, near
Lundie House (now Camperdown.) The following is the account
given of it, somewhat abridged:
       "The discovery was made in consequence of the frequent in-
terruptions experienced in ploughing the field. Upon a search
being made, flat stones were found pf a surprising breadth, which
were employed to covdr certain artificial recesses which then ap-
peared. One was larger than the rest, being 6 feet in breadth,
12 in length, and 5 in height. The walls and floor were of stone.
This communicated with other smaller apartments by a passage
about 2 or 2 1/2 feet wide. The building stood on the shelving side
of a rock. On the conmpartments being first opened, all of them
were filled with a rich black mould, on removing which, the re-
mains of some burnt matter were found, and fragments of bones,
but so small, as rendered it impossible to ascertain whether they,
belonged to the human body or not. There were likewise found
some querns or hand-mills, about 14 inches diameter, much worn,
supposed to have been used in grinding corn. In the centre of
some of these querns, a small bit of iron was fastened, showing
the handle to have been of that metal."  Before this building was
closed, we are told, it was minutely inspected by the late Sir Da-
vid Dalrymple, Lord Hailes. On the farm of Balgartno, near the
Tay, the plough is still frequently interrupted by stone coffins, as
they are termed, of very rude construction. They abound parti-
cularly in the vicinity of the large boulder above noticed.
        Church of Inverqowrie.-Under this head must be noticed the
remains of the church of Invergowrie, believed to be the most an-
chent place of Christian worship to the north of the Tay. The
walls, however, which are standing, and are very entire, are of the
plainest masonry, and bear no marks of antiquity. They cannot

to remain in it, without being disturbed. Some of his followers or attendants from
Mearns and Morayshire, having joined in a conspiracy to seize on his person, the
plot was discovered in the moment when they were endeavouring to force the doors
of the palace, in the night; and the King, assisted by his chamberlain, Alexander
Carron, the son of that Carron whom Malcolm III. had distinguished by the sur-
name of Scrimgeour, and preferred to the office of carrying the royal standard, hap-
pily effected his escape. Embarking then at Invergowrie, he directed his course to
the southern parts of the kingdom, where he raised  great force in order to repel and
punish this insurrection. But, before proceeding in his expedition, he founded, as a
tribute of gratitude to God, for the late deliverance and protection he had experien-
ced, the lands of the Monastery of Scoon, and made over to that church, In detens at
glebasn, the lands of Liff and Invergowrie, formerly assigned to him, as a present,
by the Farl of Gowrie."-Vide Fordoun's Scot. Chron, also Buchanan.


