                                3
234                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

have invited hither many extensive bleaching and printing esta-
blishments, such as those of Bonhill-field, Bonhill-place, Leven-
field, Leven-bank, Kirkland-field, Dalmanoch-field, Dalgohorn,
Cordell, &c. The same properties have rendered the Leven an
equally eligible situation for the scaly tribes," many species of which
            "Cut with their golden cars the silver stream."
   Smollet in his beautiful ode to Leven water particularly alludes
to its watery tenants,
                               "The scaly brood,
                 In myriads cleave the crystal flood;
                 The springing trout in speckled pride;
                 The salmon monarch of the tide;
                 The ruthless Oike intent on war;
                 The silver eal and melted char."
   There are besides Loch Lomond, eight or nine small fresb water
lakes in Dumbartonshire, but none of them of much importance.
Loch Sloy, in Arrochar, upwards of a mile long and a quarter of a
mile broad, is interesting as having been at one period the rendez-
vous of the clan Macfarlane, whose slugborn, or war cry, was
"Loch Sloy," which in Gaelic signifies the "lake of the host or
army." There are also two considerable lochs in Old Kilpatrick;
two also at Fannyside, in the parish of Cumbernauld, between
which a new public road, projected and accomplished by that in-
defatigable road-maker, the Honourable Admiral Fleeming, now
passes.
   The river Clyde, on the southern boundary of the county, is not
more beautiful than lucrative to all the districts which its waters
intersect or touch upon. At the head of Loch Lomond the waters
of Falloch, Inveruglas, Douglas, and Linnhe, are "brisk bratling"
mountain streams, exhibiting in many places small but beautiful
cascades. The Kelvin water is part of Kirkintilloch parish, where
it resembles a great ditch traversing a meaadow, but at Garscube
its banks are bold and elevated, and continue to be highly interest-
ing, till its embochure in the Clyde at Partick, two miles below
Glasgow, Gareloch and Loch Long are two very interesting arms
of the sea to the west of the county.  Gareloch, i.e. the "short
loch," is a small sheet of salt water, running nearly N.W. and
S.E. Like Loch Lomond, it is not more than six miles long, and
has an average depth of about 130 feet, lying on a fine stiff blue
clay, excellent for the anchorage of vessels.  Loch Long is a more
extensive arm of the sea, running nearly N.E. and S.W., approach-
ing Loch Lomond to the north and receding from it to the south.


