
                        SOUTHDEAN.                           99



abandoned.  Coal has also been searched for on this side of the
border hills, but hitberto without success.  Strong symptoms have
indeed been discovered of coal being at no great distance, yet they
were not such as to warrant expensive experiments.  Fresh attempts
are at present making to procure coal on the lands of Lord Doug-
las, and I believe with some hope of success, though the result
is not yet ascertained.
   Trees, &c.--There is a hawthorn tree in a garden here, which,
on account of its great size, connected with other circumstances, is
worthy of notice.  The proportions of it are as follows:--Root,
5 feet, 2 1/2 inches; centre, 4 feet, 7 1/2 inches; below branches, 6
feet, 2 inches; mean girth, 5 feet, 4 inches; principal branches,
first branch, 2 feet, 11 inches; second branch, 2 feet, 10 inches;
mean girth, 5 feet, 9 inches.
   One reason for mentioning this hawthorn tree is the very strong
presumption that it existed in the days of James Thomson, the
poet, who, as we have observed, spent on this spot a considerable
period of childhood and of youth.  This we are led to conclude
from the very slow growth of the hawthorn, and the many days and
years which must have passed before it could reach the size we
have described.  It therefore carries us back in imagination to the
early days of the poet of Nature.
   The remains of the ancient and extensive Jed forest are still
visible in large oak trees laid bare by the action of the streams,
and in the digging of deep ditches on various farms.  One partly
discovered in a water-course at the head of the Jed, was 3 1/2 feet
in diameter.  What is further remarkable in this is, that it was
found high up among the moors, where scarcely a shrub of the
hardiest kind could now be expected to thrive.
                     II.--CIVIL. HISTORY. *
   Under this head, it may be remarked, that the Rev. Mr Veitch
and Mr Bryson, as related by Dr M'Crie, found shelter among the


<FOOTNOTE>In this country it is universally believed, that the original of Dandy Dinmont
was the late Mr James Davidson, farmer of Hyndlee, whose enthusiastic love of the
chace was so well known.  Mr Davidson's terriers were designated by the names of
Pepper and Mustard, long previous to the publication of the novel.  The farm of
Hyndlee, too, is situated in the pass which leads into Liddesdale to the wastes of Nor-
thumberland and Cumberland, through the latter of which Dandy and his young
friend had to find their way from Carlisle, and in which they had so serious a ren-
counter.  Indeed, part of the present road from and to Liddesdale is called Note o*
the Gate, the very spot specified by Sir Walter as having been passed over on their
way to Dandy Dinmont's.  Again, not many miles from Hyndlee, one of the farms
at the head of Liddesdale is called to this day Thorleshope, evidently a corruption of
Charlieshope, mentioned in Guy Mannering as the residence of Dandy.  All these
circumstances, with his known character combined, leave no doubt that Mr David-
son was the original, in the eye of Sir Walter, in drawing the character of Dandy.



