
		     INVERESK.                         275

   Three years after Lord Hertford's expedition, Scotland was
again invaded by the Duke of Somerset, the Lord Protector of
England, during the minority of Edward VI.  In the centre of a
circle of trees, at the eastern extremity of the grounds of Esk-
grove, and opposite to Pinkie burn, a square pillar, surmounted
by an antique stone, representing a fleur de lis, marks the spot
where the royal tent was pitched, and bears the following inscription :
                    "The Protector, Duke of Somerset,
		      Encamped here, 9th September
				 1547."
   The late Lord Eskgrove caused to be erected near the same
spot a metallic statue, emblematic of England.  This was much
destroyed by idle boys, and has since been removed.
   In the church-yard of Inveresk there is a mound standing, which
would afford ample field for antiquarian disquisition, but our limits
restrict us to a few brief remarks. Its position is to the north-
west of the church, and during last century a similar mound to the
north-east was removed.  What was the origin of these mounds,
whose antiquity is indisputable?
   From having been traditionally named "Oliver's Mounts" by
the common people, Mr Robert Chambers, in his laborious and
excellent Gazetteer of Scotland, sets them down in the article
"Inveresk," as having been thrown up by Cromwell, who was
known to have used the church of St Michael as a cavalry sta-
tion.  This, however, is disproved by our finding them marked in
the rude diagrams in Patten's account of the Duke of Somerset's
Expedition,--and it will not do to quarrel with his placing them
on the south side of the church; (he places the chapel of Loretto
to the west of the river instead of to the east) as he distinctly
mentions them as "the mounds in the church-yard." By this is
evidently implied, that they were there when he reached the
place; and although the Duke afterwards used them to defend
the river at the thoroughfare by the bridge, which they command-
ed, no mention is made by Patten of his having thrown them up,
although he is most circumstantial in all his details. The
fact is, that he could not have done so, as the English army, which

<FOOTNOTE>a harbour which was called Newhaven and this name was changed to Aitcheson's
Haven, and afterwards obtained the name of Morrison's Haven, from the succeeding
proprietors at the commencement of the seventeenth century." The estate of Gosford
and Gulane, as well as the lands in the neighbourhood of this port, belonged to the
family of Aitcheson, which afterwards went over to Ireland. Its present representa-
tive is Earl Gosford, the late Governor of Lower Canada. How the lodge came
to be localized in Musselburgh is doubtful.


