
74                          WIGTONSHIRE.

prosecuted in the parts of this parish best suit ed for tillage, is not
inferior to that of any other parish in Scotland.
	On these parts which are less suitable for tillage, and solely re-
served for pasturage, about 100 scores of sheep, and a correspond-
ing number of black Galloway cattle, are kept as stock.
         The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
         Farm-Buildings, &c.--The dwelling-houses and office-houses of
the tenantry are in general good, commodious, and advantageous-
ly situated, and form a pleasing contrast with what they were but
a few years ago. Enclosures'also are generally sufficient, and in
good state of repair.
	Manufactures.--No extensive manufactures have yet been es-
tablished in this parish. There are, however, two corn-mills, two
carding-mills; one dye-mill and one flax-mill; but in none of
these establishments are many hands employed, nor is any great
amount of work executed.
	            V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets.--A cattle market is held near Glenluce, on the first
Friday of every month from April to December.
	Villages.-The only village in this parish is Glenluce, which
lies on the side of a little glen or valley, about one mile and a
half from the most inland point of the Bay of Luce, and on the
public road leading from Newton-Stewart to Stranraer. A re-
gular post-office has long been established in this village, and the
mail-c¢ach, running between Dumfries and Portpatrick, passes
through it daily.
	Means of Communication, &c.--There is but one turnpike road
in the parish, which measures about ten miles. The only bridge
of importance is that over the river of Luce, about one quarter
of a mile west from the village, which at present is in course of
being enlarged by an adjunct of 22 feet in breadth.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated on the
north-west side of the village, and in its immediate neighbourhood.
Its distance from the remotest extremity of the parish is about
seven miles; but it could not be more conveniently situated for the
great body of the population. It was built in 1814, and is in
good state of repair. It affords accommodation for 800 persons.
	The manse stands beside the old Abbey. It was built about
sixty-five years ago, and was thoroughly repaired in 1830. The
grebe contains 16 acres, and averages in value L. 2, 10s. per acre.
The stipend of the present incumbent is the minimum.
                          4



