
                         MARKINCH.                       677

is as follows: From December to March, inclusive, 292 tons;
from April to November, inclusive, 390 tons. The number of
hands employed is-of men, 30; women and girls, 80. The men
earn from 10s. to 1Is. per week; women and girls, 3s. 6d., 4s. 6d.,
5s. 6d., according to age and capability.
  Besides the above public works, there is a very extensive grain
distillery at Cameron Bridge; and there has lately been establish-
ed at Thornton a vitriol manufactory for supplying with that ar-
ticle the surrounding districts, which, previous to this erection,
were subjected to the expense of carriage from Glasgow. The
works at Thornton are a branch of a Glasgow firm extensively en-
gaged in the vitriol manufacture.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Ecclesiastical State.-According to an entry in the "Great Re-
gister Book" of the Priory of St Andrews, the church of Markinch
was given to the Culdees by Malduinus, the son of Gillander, se-
venth Bishop of that See, who flourished in the early part of the
tenth century. "Malduinus Episcopus St Andreae dedit eis eccle-
siam de Markinch cum tota terra." It seems to be a fact suffi-
ciently well authenticated, both by records and histories of the pe-
riod, that the first Bishops were themselves Culdees, and elected
from among the general body of pastors by a majority of votes.
But as the influence of these holy men became gradually under-
mained by the emissaries of Rome, and the insidious abettors of Pa-
pal domination, they were stript, one by one, of their privileges and
possessions, and finally ceased to exist as a distinct and influential
body in the church. At what time they ceased to hold possession
of the cure and lands of Markinch, we have no means of ascertain-
ing very precisely; but, by a deed of Eugenius, son of Hugo, a
second son of Gillemichael M'Duff, fourth Earl of Fife, we find
it Was mortified to the Priory of St Andrews, towards the close of
the twelfth century. This deed was confirmed by a charter of
King William. From this period the patronage of the panish, con-
tinued vested in the Priory of St Andrews, till, on the suppression
of religious houses at the Reformation, it was resumed by the
Crown. The names of the earliest, incumbents after the downfal
Of Popery are not preserved,-the session records reaching no far-
ther back than the month of July 1626, at which period they be-
gan to be kept with an exactness and detail long since discontinued,
exhibiting an interesting picture of the manners and opinions ofthe
time and shewing with what vigilance and vigour the discipline of


