
                                DENNY.                 135

ber 1765. Thomas Fergus, * 22d June 1769; died 25th January
1801.  John Dempster, + 25th April 1800.
  Education.-The total number 'of schools in the parish is nine.
There is one parochial school; one partially endowed; the rest are
all unendowed. Besides these nine, there is one dame's school
for reading, sewing, &c. carefully taught.
   The parochial teacher has all the legal accommodations.  His
salary is L.34, 4s.4 1/2d.
   There are few of the young between six aind fifteen years of age
who cannot read a little. The schools are quite numerous enough,
and sometimes injurious to each other. Two qualified and en-
dowed teachers for the town, and three for the other parts of the
parish, qualified and endowed also, would be sufficient, and might
do more good than is done by all the ten at present.
   The people are partially alive to the benefits of education; but
the concern of parents for the education of their offspring seems
on the decline.
   Literature.--There is one parochial library in Denny,contain-
ing at present 1100 volumes. Entry-money as members, L.l,
ls.,--and ls. every six months afterwards. It was instituted in
1806. Books are lent to non-subscribers at the rate of ls. 6d.
per quarter. There is also a Denny Religious Library. Number                                                have been several public reading-rooms, so
of volumes about 400; entry-money, ls; out readers, 6d. per                                                                        sons who were not a
month;--and Denny Loanhead Congregational Library, instituted                                                                         ferent causes, t
in 1831; number of volumes nearly 500; dues,ls. 6d. per quar-                                                                       Soci,-ties.-The fo
ter.
There have been several public reading-rooms, some for per
sons who were not artisans, and others for artisans; but, from dif-
ferent causes, they have failed, and at present there are none.
  Societies.--The following are the names of the societies in Denny,
besides those already mentioned: Denovan Printfield Friendly So-
ciety,instituted 1802; Herbertshire Printfield Friendly Society,
1816; Herbertshire and Denovan Friendly Society,1817; D.L. St
Andrew's Lodge, 1825; Hags Friendly Society, 1830; Banknock
Friendly Society, 1834; Denny Ploughman's Society, 1834;
Denny Horticultural Society,1836; Denny and Dunipace Total

<FOOTNOTE>After Mr Turnbull's death, there was a dispute about the presentation,between
the Crown and Herbertshire. Mr Fergus was the Crown presentee.
           Mr Fergus having become, through the infirmities of age, unable for his pub-
lic duty, agreed to have an assistant and successor. Through the influence of Wil-
liam Morehead, Esq. of Herbertshire the Crown consented to give the parish a leet of
five. Mr Dem,ster was one of the lect, and on the 27th July 1799, was chosen una-
nimously, with the exception of one voice, assistant and successor to Mr Fergus.



