
70                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

and a sloop belonging to the tacksman of Lettoch have been,
within the last eight years, employed by him in the timber and
coal trade betwixt this and Newcastle.
                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Means of Communication.-There are no market-towns in the
parish; and the nearest market-town is Inverness.  We have DO
post-office; no bridges, properly so called; no canals or rail-roads;
no harbours, properly speaking, though vessels of a considerable
tonnage can safely load and unload on the shore of the east end of
the parish.  We have a good turnpike road passing through the
eastern extremity of the parish, from the Ferry at Kessock to
Dingwall, Invergordon, and Fortrose,-upon which, a toll-bar is
placed, and upon which carriages of every description pass.
Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is every thing but com-
fortable as a place-of worship.   It was originally built, some hun-
dred years ago, in the form of a cross; and in that form it now
stands.   It is large enough to contain the population of the pa-
rish.  It was first thatched with heather; but, upwards of forty
years ago, it was raised on the walls, newly roofed, slated and seat-
ed; but, in opposition to the then minister's wishes, the heritors
continued its former Popish form.  The present heritors seem not
less attached to this relic of Popery than their predecessors.  They
lately added to the former props supporting the decayed galleries,
ten new additional props of planted wood,-removing tbe decayed
parts of the sarking, and splicing the rotten ends of some of the
couples.  In short, the church is a most uncomfortable place of
worship, and most ruinous to the health of the incumbent, as it is
said Io have been to that of his predecessors.  Even such as it is,
there is no free sitting in it, even for the very poor.-The manse
was first built about a hundred years ago.  It has received the
addition of a back wing and some repairs, since the present incum-
bent was admitted; and yet, it is far from being either comfort-
able or commodious; and, were it not for the incumbent's own
outlays upon it, he would have had little satisfaction in it.  The
glebe may be from 5 to 6 acres, all arable-no pasture.  There
is, in addition to this glebe, the one-half of the grebe of Kilmuir
Wester, belonging to the minister of Killearnan.  This arose from
a disjunction of the three parishes of Suddy, Kilmur Wester, and
Killearnan, which took place in 1756,-when the two parishes of
Killearnan and Kilmuir Wester and Suddy were formed from the
former three; and when the stipend of the three parishes was equal-


