
           354                        BANFFSHIRE.

             Insurance Companies.-There are three branches of Insurance
           Companies in the parish, viz. the Scottish Union, the Abordeen
           Fire and Life, and tbe North of Scotland.
             Fairs and Markets.-Of these, there are three held annually,
           viz.  Whitsunday market, on the third Friday of May; Martinmas
           market, on the second Friday of November; St John's fair, on
           the 7th January.  They are chiefly for the feeing of servants, and
           are well attended. There is a weekly market for the sale of grain
           during the spring months, at which business, to a considerable
           amount, is occasionally transacted and dealers frequenting it are
           accommodated with the use of excellent grain lofts, which are let
           on moderate terms.
             Inns and Alehouses.- There are two inns in the burgh.  The
           principal inn is a handsome and commodious building, and inferior
           to none on the route from Aberdeen to Inverness.  The internal
           accommodation is such as deservedly to attract the admiration of
           strangers, and the posting department is very complete.  In the
           Seatown, there are three public-houses.  There are thus altoge-
           ther five public-houses, including the two inns.  This number does
           not appear to be unreasonably great; and the magistrates of Cul-
           len deserve well of the community, for the laudable exercise of
           their discretion, in the granting of licenses to so very moderate an
           extent.
             Gas-Light.-A Gas-light Company was formed in 1841, with
           a capital of L.1000, in as many shares; and, in November last,
           the inhabitants obtained the benefit of this light in great purity
           and brilliancy. The gas has already been introduced into eighty
           houses, with the prospect of the number being speedily doubled.
           The consumpt of gas for six months, from 5th Nnvember 1841,
           has been 80,000 cubic feet.  The charge is 16s. per 1000 cubic
           feet.
              Fuel.-Formerly peat constituted the chief article of fuel, which
           was obtained frorn a moss in the immediate vicinity.  The moss
           being now under cultivation is no longer serviceable for fuel; nor,
           indeed, have the parishioners any cause to regret the loss of their
           privilege.  They are abundantly supplied with coal on moderate
           terms; and, all things considered, the change has proved advan-
           tageous in regard both to comfort and economy.  Peat is still
           occasionally used, being, brought from the neighbouring parishes



