
               	         STIRLING.                         427

The Royal Hotel, fronting Friars Wynd and the new road to the
north, opened last year, is a great ornament to the locality in which
it is Placed; and is most conveniently situated for visitors and
travellers arriving in, or departing from, the town; and along with,
the other hotels and inferior inns in the place, supplies for the.
many individuals and families, who from time to time, especially
in the summer and autumn months, come to the place, the ac-
corninodations they require.' Ten years ago a new bridge, in the
best moderate style of such structures, was erected across the
Forth, to the north of the town, a very little lower down than the,
old one, which still remains in use. A few mills for the woollen
manufactory have been lately built; and a new parochial church, is
at present being erected in the eastern and lower part of the town,
which promises to be a handsome structure. The material em-
ployed in all buildings is almost universally stope. In ordinary
dwelling-houses and shops, it is the trap or greenstone on which
the town rests; in those of a better sort, freestone, brought from
quarries beyond the bounds of the parish. In a very few cases,
brick, made in the Place is employed.
                         III.-POPULATION.
  For the reasons assigned in the historical department, the po-
pulation of the town is supposed to have been considerable from
the time of the accession of the Stewarts to the throne; approach-
ing, probably,to about one-half of what it is at present. Nothing,
however, can be said with certainty as to its amount, at any date
prior to 1755; when  according to the return made to Dr Web-
ster, the population of the parish was 3951. In 1792, by an ac-
curaye survey it was found to be 4698. By the Government cen-
sus in 1801, it was 5256; by that in 1811, nearly 6000; in 1821,
7333; in 1831, excluding a few places, which on this occasion,
and perhaps in the former cases, were included, but which really
belong to the parish of Logie, 8499, of which 3876 were males,
and 4623 females; and by that of the present year 1841, 8914. *
The population of the town and castle of Stirling is 8531. in
that portion of the town which is in the parish of St Ninian's
there are 270 persons; in the villages of Raploch and Abbey,
549; in the rural portion of the parish, 104. The probable cau-
ses of the increase, which has taken place progressively since about
the middle oflast century, have been already traced to their source

<FOOTNOTE>In this are Included the resident staff and garrison in the castle, amounting, to
268 persons; and the prisoners in the jail, to 54.


