
800                              AYRSHIRE.

murly is a fair veill built housse, and pleasantly seatted, decorred
with orchards and woodes, the inheritance of Robert Montgomery,
laird thereof, quho holds it of ye Earls of Glencairn."  The es-
tate reverted by succession to the house of Eglinton ; and now
belongs to Archibald William, Earl of Eglinton and Winton.
   Wilson of Haylie.--This family has existed since 1483, and the
property has passed in regular male succession from that date to
the present owner, James Wilson of Haylie and Quarter, &c.
   Parochial Registers.--There is no regular record of births and
baptisms prior to the Revolution, and long after that epoch the
record was very imperfect.  It has of late been better kept.
   Antiquities.--We have in course of this report taken notice in-
cidentally of several of the most ancient buildings in the parish.
The principal remains of antiquity are those connected with the
battle of Largs, in 1263.  Immediately above Haylie, to the east,
there is a small hill on which therd are still visible the remains of
an encampment.  It bears the name of Castle Hill.  At the back
of the mansion-house of Haylie there are the remains of a tumu-
lus, which was doubtless erected over the bodies of those who fell
in that conflict.  It was called Margaret's Law; but this was pro-
bably the corruption of some other name.  The only other vestige
which has withstood the changes of modern times, is the barrow
close by the west wall of the burying-ground, which corroborates
the Norwegian account of their dead having been interred at the
church.  Near the spot now inclosed as the garden of Dr Cairnie,
there stood a rude stone pillar, which was reputed as commemo-
rative of the place where Haco, the Norwegian commander, fell.
The stone has been built by Dr Cairnie in his garden wall, and
now bears the following appropriate inscription :
                         Substit. Hie Gothi Furor.
              Conditur bic Haco Steniensis, et undique, circum
                     Norvegios fidos terra tegit Socios:
                 Hue regnum venere petentes; Scotia victor
                  Hostibus hic tumulos, praemia justa dedit.
                   Quarto ante nonas Octobris, a. n. 1263.
                                  -------
                                  Largis
                     Ipsis Calendis: Junii, A. D. 1823.
                      Me poswit Joannes Cairnius illam
                   Rem memorare tibi.  Tu mernores allis.

   There is a small piece of land which was originally lying runrig in
seven different parts called Breedsorrow.  Pont gives the origin
of the name thus, " Breedsorrow is the possession of tbe laird of Blare,
and being a small hamlet, it is so named, because of grate sorrow
it bred amongst neighbours debettaing and contesting for ye heri-


