
			ST CYRUS.                            279

superior durability. The mansion-houses in the parish are gene-
rally surrounded by clumps of hard-wood trees of considerable age
and size; and, in one instance, on an elevated spot, close by the
sea shore, there is a goodly collection of ash and other deciduous
trees, which appear to have withstood for centuries the fury of the
eastern gales. The hill of Woodston was planted about eighty
years ago, and yields excellent timber, though of small size. At
a later period, the plantations of Mount Byrus were laid out, and
have been considerably extended by the present proprietor. The
plantations of Lauriston are just about to be further enlarged, by
the addition of a pretty large extent on the north side of the es-
tate.

      		        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	Land-owners.--The land-owners, in this parish are, Mr Lyall
of Lauriston; Mr Dingwall Fordyce of Brucklay, proprietor of
Woodston; Mr Grant of Mount Cyrus; Mr Fitzmaurice Scott
of Comeston; Mr J. R. Scott of Stone of Morphy, a minor;
Mr Graham of Morphy; the Earl of Kintore; Captain Orr of
Bridgeton; Mr Grahame Straton of Kirkside; Mr T. Newman
Farquhar of Jackston; and Sir Alexander Ramsay of Balmain,
Bart., proprietor of Muirhead.
	Parochial Rigisters.--The oldest minute book of the kirk-ses-
sion commences with the date May 24, 1696, and the register of
baptisms and marriages with that of April of the same year. Both
have been continued with some irregularity to the present time.
There are blanks in the minutes from 1732 to 1744, from 1791
to 1797, and from 1810 to 1816; and the volume containing the
register of marriages, from 1776 to 1834, appears to have been
lost.
	Antiquities.--The Castle of Lauriston, which was situated to-
wards the, east end of the parish, and about a mile from the sea
shore, appears to have been a place of some note in ancient times.
It was called by Lord Hailes the " Fortress of Lauriston." It was
built in the tenth century, and sustained repeated sieges, by the
troops of Edward III. In 1336, it was captured and garrisoned
by that monarch, and, towards the termination of that year, was
recaptured and demolished by the Guardian Murray, along with
"the fortresses of Kineff and Dunoter" (Hailes's Annals, p. 191,
and Guthrie's History). The castle and lands of Lauriston con-
tinued in the possession of the Straton family for a period of 400
years prior to 1695, when the estate was sold to "Sir John Falconer


