
                      EAST KILBRIDE.                        895

mossy state.  There can be no doubt that additions may hereafter
be advantageously made to the cultivated land.  There is not
much undivided common in the parish.
   Planting of trees has not proceeded to any great extent in East
Kilbride, except on the grounds of Torrance and Calderwood,
and on the ground belonging to Glasgow College.  Within the
last two years, the College appears to have planted about fifteen
acres, and within twentv years previously, they must have planted
from twenty to thirty acres.  Mr Ure says it is a mistake to sup-
pose that planting will not thrive in the cold climate of Kilbride,
because every house almost, even in the most exposed situations,
is surrounded with large trees, of various species.  But then he
mentions that considerable attention was paid to the raising of
these trees.  The soil was prepared by draining off the water.  A
handful of oats was thrown into the bottom of the hole dug for
the young tree; over these about an inch of good earth was laid;
upon this, the roots of the plant,were carefully spread and cover-
ed up with the best mould that could be got; and the plant se-
cured from the cattle.  The oats having come to a state of vege-
tation, raised a proper degree of heat, and thereby made the plant
set forth with vigour.
   One cause, which has probably operated to prevent an increase
of plantation in this parish, is the great subdivision of property
that exists in it.  This circumstance, added to the difficulties of
the soil and climate, must have deterred the proprietors from at-
tempting to surround their lands with any extent of wood.
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land per acre in
East Kilbride cannot be more than L.1, 10s.  The average rent
of grazing for a single cow may be stated at from L.3 to L.4 Sterling
per annum, where the grazing is directly paid for by itself.  But
where the land is rented for the sake of grazing, as is generally the
case near the village of Kilbride, the expense may be reckoned
to be about L.5 for each cow.
   Rate of Wages.--The rate of payment for labour is about 10s.
a-week in winter, and 12s. in summer.  In some instances, the
weekly wages of quarrymen may be a little higher.  The half-
yearly wages of farm-servants, in addition to their food, vary from
L.7 to L.10 Sterling.
   I have obtained from a respectable dealer in Kilbride, a list of
the medium prices at which he has bought different, articles of
produce in the parish during the last six years, which is as follows:


