
                          ARDNAMURCHAN.                       121

acteristic, they rise to a great height; and the whole of the re-
maining country is composed of immense mountain ranges, whose
sides, jagged with huge rocks, or broken into precipices, oversha-
dow deep and dark valleys which wind between.  This, which lies
northward of all the other districts of the parish, exceeds all in
the wild and savage grandeur of its scenery.  It, however, con-
tains some extensive and good sheep pastures, and some green
fields and cultivated land on the coast, which delight the eye, as
well as woods, chiefly of birch, which give beauty and shelter to
the shores of Loch Morir and Lochoranua.
   Hydrography.-Loch Sunart, an arm of the sea, about twenty-
five miles long, bounding the parish on the south, is an offset of
the Sound of Mull, at its function with which it is about six miles
in breadth, and becomes gradually narrower until, six or seven
miles inland, it appears to terminate at the group of islands formed
by Carna, Risga, and Oransay.  Between these, the tide rushes
with great velocity into a land-locked and generally smooth ex-
panse, constituting the greatest portion of the length of the locb,
varying from half a mile to two miles in breadth, and much from
the straight line, in consequence of the points of Dungallan in
Ardnamurchan and Airderinish in Morvern projecting in opposite
directions.  The water here has generally the brown colour of
the many mountain streams which flow into it, and has all the ap-
pearance of a fresh water lake enclosed by high and rocky moun-
tains, abrupt rocks, and wooded promontories, without any visible
traces of the parent sea except the ebb and flow of the tide, the sea-
weed laid bare at low-water, and an occasional porpoise or smaller
fishes pursuing their prey.  At about six miles from its head, it
again contracts into a narrow strait of no great length, and again
expands, retaining a breadth varying from a quarter to half a mile
until it terminates.  There is a very correct chart of this arm of
the sea, in the possession of Sir James Miles Riddell, Bart.
   Loch Moidart runs into the district of that name for about four
miles from west to east.  Its depth does not appear to be great;
and great part of its bottom is laid bare at low water.  The sea
enters by narrow channels on each side of the island Shana in its
mouth.  Steep and lofty mountains, whose scathed and naked
peaks are generally enveloped in clouds, embosom the innermost
and greatest sheet of water, which, almost always calm, even when
the open sea is most wildly agitated, reflects from its placid sur-


