
                           NIGG.                          211

den, with a small salary arising from the interest of money be-
queathed by Dr Cruden and others, amounting to about L.6 per
annum besides school-fees, amounting to about L.15 per annum.
--3. School at Charlestown. The schoolmaster has a small house
and garden, with school-fees amounting to about L.12. For two
years past, he has received each year L.5, a donation from the
Trustees of the late Mr Donaldson; but it is uncertain whether
or not this will be continued.--4. There is another sehool in Tor-
ry. The schoolmaster has no free school-house, and no salary.
He depends for his living upon the small school-fees.
	A few scholars are taught to read, by women, without any sa-
lary; one in Torry, and `nother in Cove.
	There are very few persons betwixt six and fifteen years of age,
or above it, that cannot read or write. The people in general are
alive to the benefits of education; but among the white-fishermen
and others, there are some so poor as to be unable, however wil-
ling, to give their children the necessary education. The session
pay for some poor scholars, from the interest of small sums be-
queathed for that purpose, and recommed others to be taught
gratis, which is readily done by all the teachers.
	There is no part of the parish so distant from school as to pre-
vent attendance of the children. Those in the Bridge of Dee
and Legart district have to go more than two miles to any school
in the parish, and a school there would be of very great service.
	Friendly Societies.--The Friendly Societies in Torry and the
Cove, began in the year 1772, it was found necessary, some years
ago, witb the consent of all parties concerned, to dissolve. There
are still two deposit Societies at the Cove.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 57: the average allowance per annum
a little more than L.1, 10s. Average amount of collections at
the church for the poor, L.53, 19s.; donation penalties, mort-
cloths, &c. L.33, 0s. 5d.; inferest of money left, L.29, 13s. 5d.
The average expenser are L.11, 12s. viz., for the session-clerk's
fee, the precentor's and officer's salary, &c.
	Mr James Calder, late merchant in Aberdeen, gave L.500 to
the poor of the parish. Some of the heritors give an annual do-
nation forthe parish; and sums have been be-
queathed by others.
	Inns and Public-Houses.--There are about ten or twelve pub-
lic-house in the parish, one-half of which would be sufficient.


