
			     LANARK.			        5

principal tributaries, the Douglas Water, soon reaches the Boning-
ton Fall, where, in a divided stream, it is abruptly precipitated over
a ledge of rocks of about thirty feet of perpendicular height. Its
channel from this point, for about half a mile, is formed of a range of
perpendicular and equidistant rocks on either side, which are from
70 to l00 feet high, and which Mr Pennant has well characterized
as stupendous natural masonry. At Corehouse it encounters an-
other fall 84 feet in height, and immediately assumes a more tran-
quil character until it reaches a small cascade called Dundaf Lin,
about a quarter of a mile farther down. The banks now slope more
gently, sometimes covered with natural wood, and sometimes cul-
tivated to the water's edge. This character it preserves for a dis-
tance of about three or four miles, until it reaches Stonebyres,
where it passes through another rocky ridge, and projects itself in
three leaps over a precipice of 80 feet in height. In its farther
course, which extends about a mile and a-half in this parish, the
stream in general flows quietly between gently sloping and beauti-
fully wooded banks.
	The breadth and depth of the river vary at different places. At
the broadest a stone may be thrown across; and there is a spot
between the Bonington and Corra Falls where the whole volume of
its waters is so confined between two rocks, that an adventurous
leaper has been known to clear it at a bound. There are fords
which children can wade across, and pools which have never been
fathomed.
	The scenery along the banks of the Clyde is acknowledged to
be scarcely equalled in this country, and rarely surpassed abroad.
It has for a long period attracted multitudes of admiring visitors
during the fine season, and still continues to be as much visited as
ever. The country above the falls is comparatively tame and un-
interesting. But from that point nothing can surpass the variety
and beauty of the prospects, which successively present themselves
to the eye of the traveller.
	Waterfalls.--The waterfalls, however, are the chief objects of
attraction. The uppermost, called the Bonington Fall, is about
two miles and a-half distant from Lanark. The way lies for the most
part through the beautiful grounds of Bonington; and, with a libe-
rality worthy of imitation, the Ross family, to whom the property
belongs, allow free access on every day but the Sabbath, and at all
hours, to the public, who find tasteful walks kept in the highest
order, and seats at every fine point of view for their accommodations.


