
                               OXNAM.                              261

side, which served to inclose a spacious outer court, and within which
the cattle in the vicinity, being shut up, might be secured against
those daring attempts at spoliation and rapine, commonly executed
by freebooters under the cover of night.  A few years only have
elapsed since these remains of antiquity were nearly all removed,
with a view to subserve and facilitate the purposes of modern im-
provement; and hence it may be truly said of these ancient but
dilapidated fortalices, no less than of the mirthful festivities, the
warlike preparations, and the boasted chivalrous exploits of which
they were by turns the scene, that every vestige almost has alike
passed away from the remembrance and the sight of man.
     One fact has been rescued from the general oblivion, however,
connected with Henwood, in the immediate vicinity of the Crag
Tower.  Into its deep and impervious fastnesses, which covered
extensively the western banks of the Oxnam and the grounds ad-
jacent, the border chiefs, accompanied by their feudal and military
retainers, were wont to betake themselves, when their dangers were
pressing and great; and hence an occurrence, exceedingly fre-
quent and alarming, gave rise to the memorable war-cry,--a Hen-
woody! which made one and all grow fierce, seize the readiest
weapon, and hasten eagerly for protection to the forest, of all
others the most safely commodious place, both as a rendezvous and
refuge for the inhabitants.  By this watch-word, too often the sig-
nal for indiscriminate burning, devastation, and slaughter, no less
than by the many ruins of a dignified but gloomy cast, with which
this frontier parish abounded, we are sadly reminded of the trou-
bles and rude habits so prevalent in that age; and are led for-
cibly to contrast these with the growing civilization and peaceful
occupations that characterize the present times.
     To the west of Henwood, there appears a rising ground called
Gallala Know, which the voice of tradition declares to have been
the place appropriated for the execution of criminals during the
Border wars.  It is now enclosed and planted with trees.  There,
is likewise a seemingly artificial tumulus, beautifully situated in the
bosom of a sort of natural amphitheatre hard by the Crag Tower.
It is a place, which, in bygone times, might have probably been
occupied for the public administration of justice to the lieges.
     An iron helmet, imbedded in the ground near Cappuck, was dis-,
covered about sixty years ago; but we are unable to state into
whose hands it has now fallen.  Also, at Stotfield there was found
lately a large sized and elegantly formed pot or kettle, of the kind


