
                              HOUNAM.                      191

nant fevers rarely make their appearance. Of simple typhus, a
case seldom occurs, and intermittent fevers have almost disappear-
ed. The climate is exceedingly favourable to vegetation, pro-
ducing a constant verdure, and the most luxuriant herbage on the
plains and undulating bills. Both the climate and soil are suffi-
ciently favourable to the production of most descriptions of grain.
For barley, especially, it seems to be singularly well adapted. Po-
tatoes and turnips are in general a good crop, and of excellent
quality.
   Hydrography.-Many excellent perennial springs arise out of
the gravelly soil, or from fissured rocks in the hills, and descend
in small streams toward the plains, forming numerous rivulets. In
the more elevated portions of the parish, there are a few periodical
springs, which flow, during the winter and spring months, and then
cease to flow till the return of winter. Some of these springs are
impregnated with a little iron.
   There is but one medicinal spring * deserving of notice. Its
composition has never been subjected to chemical analysis, but its
waters are said to be gently diuretic, and of some virtue in stomach
complaints.
   The only stream connected with the parish worthy of particular
notice is the Kale+ water, which takes its rise from the northern
declivity of the border hills, a little above the Hindhopes, in Ox-
nam parish; whence it proceeds in a northerly direction, intersect-
ing the parish in nearly equal halves. After a variety of beauti-
ful windings, and a run of eight miles in a direct line, and of about
seventeen counting its windings, this water unites at the village with
that of Capehope.+ In its course through the parish it receives
other tributary streams; but its breadth is small in comparison to
its length,-varying from 27 to 45 feet. Its bed being of a gravel-
ly nature, this stream frequently undermines its banks, changes its
channel, and not unfrequently overflows its banks. Possessing a
clean gravelly bottom, its waters are remarkably transparent. It

<FOOTNOTE>Situated at the base of the west declivity of the hill called Cranshaw-law, a little
to the westward from Hounam village.
    The Kale derived its ancient name (Calle) from the woody coverts which em-
bellished its banks; Cell and Celli in the British signifying a grove, and Coilli, in the
Gaelic, a wood.-Chalmers's Caledonia.
    The Capehope derives its name from one of those small vales from whence it
takes its rise, and to which the term Hope is generally applied where the bases of
rising grounds meet each other without leaving any level. The names of the diffe-
rent Hopes in this parish are as follows: Cape-hope, Crib-hope, Callaw-hope, Dor-
mont-hope, Bear-hope, Kirk-hope, and Heather-hope.


