
244                         ARGYLESHIRE.

were half a dozen of them, and the upper end of each was a foot
below the surface.
   There are some Druidical cairns or conical heaps of stones in
several places in this parish.  One them, which is of a considera-
ble size, and of a regular conical shape, stands near the church, on
the farm of Bachil, the property of Mr Coll Levingstone.  It is
called Cnoc aingil, " fiery knoll," as tradition, or rather supersti-
tion says, that it used to foretell an invasion, by appearing " all in a
lowe."
   There are several of these tumuli on the property of Mr Stuart
of Bailechelish, who, a few years ago, began to remove one of them
with a view to clear the field in which it stood, of what he believe
ed to be merely a heap of stones, but as the workmen proceeded,
they found in the centre of the tumulus a rude stone coffin con-
taining nothing within it, and instead of removing the whole, as
was first intended, Mr Stuart, with proper feeling, ordered the sa-
cred relic to be left undisturbed ; built a wall round the place,
planted some trees within the enclosure, and reared a stone pillar,
on which is engraved the time when, and the circumstances un-
der which, they were found.
   The queen or ancient hand-mill is still in use in some parts of
this parish. The writer lately saw it in full operation in Kinger-
loch grinding corn, and he never tasted better oatmeal than that
which it produced.  It was a very simple apparatus, consisting of
a nether and an upper stone, and a hand to drive the latter round.
In the centre of the nether stone, which was about two feet in dia-
meter, there was a wooden peg firmly fastened, and through the
centre of the upper stone there was a hole sufficiently large to re-
ceive easily the foresaid peg when the stones were laid upon one
another in working order.  The purpose of this peg was to keep
the upper stone from flying off by its centrifugal force during its
revolutions.  On the upper surface of the upper stone, and near
its edge there was another hole bored half through, into which
was inserted another stick, which is the hand by which the mill is
driven.

		              III-POPULATION.
   The population of this parish has increased considerably, since
the last Statistical Account Was written.  The parish at that time
contained 3526 souls, of whom 1121 were in Lismore; but in 1831
the population was 4365, and of these 1497 were in Lismore.


