
     of Aberdeen.

   The etymology of Aberdeen, the ancient as well as mo-
dern name both of the town and parish, is doubtless from
the ancient British.  Aber, according to Cambden, when ap-
plied to a river or brook, signifies the mouth, ostium, the
place where it falls into the sea, or into any lake or river.
The earliest mention, probably, of this place, is in a Roman
itinerary of the incursion made by Severus, if we mistake
not, into the northern parts of the island, in the beginning
of the 3 d century.  The town is there called Devana, and
the river Deva.  But whether the name Devana was used
by the natives may reasonably be questioned.  It appears
more likely to have been given it by the Romans from its
situation on Dora, the Dee.  What serves to confirm this
opinion is, that the Dee, a river of the same name in the
west of England, is, by Ptolemy, also called Deva, and
Chester, the only city of note upon it, is, from that circum-
stance, called Devana, a word which has no affinity to
Chester, or to any name by which it seems to have been
known to the natives.  Probably, therefore, Aberdeen is
the first name by which this town was distinguished, and
that before the introduction of Christianity into the country.
It is much more probably derived from the ancient British
than from the Erse.  To the former, the oldest names of
towns, rivers, and mountains in this country have a greater
affinity than to the latter, which, though but a different
dialect of the same language, the Celtic came much later
than the other into the eastern parts of the country, from a
colony of Irish, whence it has had, time immemorial, the
name of Erse.  If the Picts were, as some of our antiqua-
ries suppose, a tribe of the ancient Britons, the name is
doubtless to be ascribed to them.  But if, as is maintained
by others, the Picts were originally Scandinavians or Ger-
mans, the name Aberdeen, with many others, must have had
its origin before their invasion, and must be attributed to


