
     of Dunkeld.

<TABLE>

Weavers,                  60   Keepers of inns and alehouses,         12
Brewers,                   2   Glovers and tawers,                     2
Tailors,                  14   Wheelwright,                            1
Watchmakers,               3   Apprentices,                           35
Bakers,                    4   Piper*,                                 1
Masons,                    12

</TABLE>

   These make, together, 268; and day-labourers, servants
to the Duke of Atholl, and children, complete the full num-
ber of 589 males, which are in Dunkeld.

     ECCLESIASTICAL STATE.

   1.  Stipend of the Minister+.-There are several peculia-
rities in the state of the provision made for the minister of
Dunkeld.  There is no manse; there is no ascertained
glebe; there is no allowance for communion-elements, and
but a small pittance, of the very inadequate stipend, is
drawn from either Dunkeld or Dowally.
   During several years after the Revolution, a chaplain,
who was employed and paid by the Duke of Atholl, per-
formed here the services of religion to the people; and it

<FOOTNOTE>

*This is the man to whom the following paragraph, in the Scots Ma-
gazine for October 1746, refers, in detailing the trials of the Rebels at Car-
lisle.  "John Ballantine acted as a piper in Captain James Stewart's com-
"pany.  But several witnesses deposed that he was forced into the service
"by a party of the Rebels, who took him by violence out of his bed, threat-
"ened to stab him if he did not go with them, and did not allow him
"time even to put on his clothes; and that afterwards they place a guard
"over him, to prevent his escape.  When the jury returned their verdict,
"Not Guilty, the poor fellow was in such as transport of joy, that he threw
"his bonnet up to the very roof of the court and cried, My Lords and
"Gentlemen, I thank you.  Not Guilty! Not Guilty! Pray
"God bless King George for ever; I'll serve him all the days of my life;"
"and immediately ran out to the castle-yard with his irons on. took up a
"handful of channel water, and drank his Majesty's health."

+This article refers to him of Dowally as well as Dunkeld.


