
                               CURRIE.                           545

by this peculiarity, that, although it dips very fast, and uniformly
lies to the south-west, in most cases it comes to the very surface
of the earth, which enables the tradesmen or men of small capital
to work it to great advantage. Hence the many neat and com-
fortable erections in that quarter of the parish.
   There is a kind of bastard limestone found in considerable
quantity on the south-east of the Malleny estate, which was
partially wrought some fifty or sixty years ago by the tenantry;
but after considerable perseverance the work was given up, from
the great difficulty experienced in quarrying and breaking the
stone, as well as from the high price of coal, which was brought
from the other side of the Pentlands on horseback.
   It is said there is a small vein of copper ore on the south bank
of the Water of Leith, near East Mill. An English company,
about eighty years ago, sent workmen to explore it; but found it
too insignificant, or incapable of repaying their labour. Coal,
although reported by some, with great confidence, to exist on the
Malleny property, has not hitherto been obtained.
   Hydrography.-There is abundance of excellent water. Springs
are numerous and perennial, of whibh we may particularize only St
Mungo's Well, from which the villagers of Currie are supplied;
and the celebrated Black springs, which were examined and looked
to with great interest by the new company, who proposed, a few
years ago, to procure an additional supply of water for the city of
Edinburgh.
   The Water of Leith takes its rise within the parish of Mid-
Calder, at a place called Wester Burn, which, after flowing east-
ward tinder the name of Leith-head Water, and being joined at
Balerno by the Bavelaw, passes Currie, Colinton, Broughton, and
empties itself into the Frith of Forth near Newhaven. In the
early part of its course it abounds with small trout; but the chlo-
ride of lime and other chemical substances used by the paper-
makers have almost entirely destroyed them at the village of
Balerno and downwards.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-Currie bridge is said to have stood upwards of 500
years. The water being very deep beneath it, gave rise to the
proverb, "As deep as Currie brig,"-indicating not only shrewd-
ness but selfish cunning.
   Riccarton House was formerly a place of considerable strength
and of great antiquity, if we are to suppose that this was the Ric-


