
                           CRIMOND.                     709

Dalgardno of Blackwater, and David Rivis of Strathstedlie,
bailies of the burgh of Rattray, a jury of thirteen honest men, ci-
tizens of the said burgh, find that Magnus Smith, the father of
William Smith, died possessed of four roods of land in the said
burgh.  Upon this, David Rivis, one of the said bailies, superior
of the lands of Rattray, grants a charter on the said four roods in
favour of William Smith.  The next charter is granted in 1675,
by William Watson of Haddo, bailie of the burgh of Rattray, su-
perior of the said lands, in favour Isobel Watson, spouse of
Alexander Bisset in Bilbo.  The latest charter is granted in 1711,
by Charles, Earl of Errol, superior of the lands of Rattray, in fa-
vour of the daughters the said Alexander Bisset and Isobel
Watson."
   Near the mill of Haddo, at a spot called the "Battle fauld,"
tradition points out the grave of Sir James the Rose, who was slain
in mortal combat by, Sir John the Graeme, when contending for
the hand of Lord Buchan's daughter.  It was this circumstance
that gave rise to the famous ballad of Sir James the Rose.
   Many ancient coins are occasionally turned up by the plough
or spade, near the site the old burgh of Rattray; but as they
are generally gifted away to the curious in numismatology, no re-
cord of their dates has been preserved.  On the north-east side of
the estate of Logie, are the remains of A Druidical temple, the
stones composing it of gigantic dimensions.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
          In 1755 the population was        .         765
             1792, by the former Statistical Account, 917
             1801,     .             .      .         862
             1831,       .        .      .            879
             1838, about       .      .               830
             1841,      .      .         .            767

   The decrease since 1831 may be accounted for by the removal
of six or seven families of fishermen from Rattray Head to the new
fishing village of Burnhaven, near Boddam, they having found the
landing at the former place too hazardous for carrying on their oc-
cupation with profit or success.  Several families have also been re-
moved from the interior of parish, owing to the gradual dis-
continuance, on tha part of the proprietors, of the croft or cottar
system.  Further reduction of the population from this cause may
soon be expected, as the principal estate has recently been sur-
veyed.  Many small farms have been put into one and subletting
strictly prohibited.  This will ultimately tend to check pauperism


