
     Statistical Account

   Set or Constitution of the Burgh.-The town-council consists
of 21 members, 14 of whom are merchants, and 7 tradesmen,
viz. a provost, 4 bailies, a dean of guild, a treasurer, 7 mer-
chant counsellors, and 7 deacons of trade.  Besides the ordi-
nary jurisdiction in civil causes, which is common to the ma-
gistrates of all royal boroughs, and to the sheriffs of counties,
the magistrates of this town have also an extensive criminal
jurisdiction, confessed upon them by their charters, equal to
the power of Sheriffs, within their territories.  Prior to the
year 1771, the old council elected the new one, 11 members
at least of the old council being changed yearly.  Six of the
7 trades sent a leet of 4, and the bakers a leet of 8 to the
council, who had power to put a negative upon the one half
of each leet.  Each incorporation chose one out of the re-
mainder, as their representative in council.  The burgh
having been disfranchised in 1775, by a sentence of the House
of Peers, confirming the decree of the Court of Session, his
Majesty was pleased, in 1781, to restore it to its privileges of
election, by his poll warrant, in which he made the following
alterations on the set.  The guildry company of merchants, an-
nually elect 4 members of the new council.  The trades choose
their 7 representatives, without sending leets:  only the old
counsel previously declares 4 of the old deacons incapable of
being re-elected for the ensuing year.  And there are still at
least eleven of the old council changed yearly.  By the new
set, as well as the old, the provost, bailies, treasurer and con-
vener, cannot be continued in their offices more than 2 years
at a time.  The dean of guild being now chosen by the com-
pany of merchants, is necessarily changed yearly.  The trades
incorporated by royal charter are, the bakers, weavers, ham-
mermen, skinners, butchers, tailors and shoemakers.  The
maltmen, barbers, and other professions, have no representa-
tive in council, nor any royal charter, but only acts of erec-


