
                                  CLYNE.                           153

       land earth was frequently taken to other countries, under the im-
       pression of its efficacy in driving them from any place where the
       earth might be deposited.  But a vessel being wrecked near Kin-
       tradwell about thirty years ago, dispelled the delusion, and intro-
       duced the Muscovy rat, which has since multiplied, and spread in
       every direction.  The red-deer have become very numerous since
       the plantations on the banks of Loch Brora have grown up to af.
       ford them cover and shelter.  Some Pf these noble animals attain
       a great size, and are often seen congregated in herds.  Lord
       Francis Egerton killed one of the stags at this place in 1838,
       which weighed upwards of eighteen stones Dutch weight; and it is
       believed that some of them are now much larger.  The foxes and
       other animals of prey were at one time very destructive to stock;
       but the farmers entered into an association and hired fox-huntersi
       by whose exertions they were nearly extirpated; aeleast they were
       so much thinned, as not again to become very formidable.
          One hundred and fifty different kinds of birds frequent the pa-
       rish, the most remarkable of which are, the white-tailed eagle, ring-
       tailed eagle, peregrine falcon, buzzard, hawk, wild swan, wild
       goose, blaakcock, grouse, ptarmigan.
          The fishes in Loch Brora are, salmon, grih4e, salmon trout,
       cbar, common trout.  The salmon begin to ascend the river in
       condition to spawn about the middle of August; the grilse a fort-
       night later.  They begin to spawn about the Ist of October, and
       descend as kelts or spent fish in February.  The smelts go down
       in March, continuing to do so till the end of May.  The grilses
       commence their ascent in May, varying, it from the beginning till
       the end of the month, according as the season may be early or late.
          The fishes caught on. the, shores are, cod, ling, I haddock, Skater
       turbot, halibut, flounder whiting, mackere, mullets, millers, gur-
       nards.  The shell-fish are, lobsters, partons or crabs.

                             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
          Sir Robert Gordon's Genealogical History of the Earldom of
       Sutherland, of which there is an old manuscript copy in the libra-
       ry at Dunrobin Castle, contains many notice's of this parish, but
       chiefly descriptive of the ancient feuds and combats which used to
       distract the country at that period, and is too voluminous to be in-
       serted here.
          The chief historical event of importance which has taken place
       since the publication of the former report, is the change in the oc-
       cupation of the parish by the removal, of the small tenants for the
         SUTHERLAND.                            L


