
                              PORTPATRICK.                  157

Colonel Hunter Blair pays L. 67, 11s. 2d., Colonel Vans Agnew,
L. l5, 19s. 9d., and the Earl of Stair, L. 4, 19s. 6d. After deduct-
ing from this sum the allowance for communion elements, the
difference between the remainder and L. 150 is paid by the Ex-
chequer under the act for augmenting small stipends.
	There are no places of stated public worship in the parish be-
sides the Established Church. As this church contains only 300,
the members of church-going families attached to the Establish-
ment are under the necessity, of attending by turns, and few chil-
dren are to be seen ih church. In these circumstances, it is im-
possible to say how many individuals are in the habit of attending;
but the number who attend either regularly or occasionally, as they
can be assured of finding seats, may probably amount to about
600. Divine service in the parish church is usually well attended.
	The following table shows the number of the population be-
longing, or professing to belong, to each of the several religious de-
nominations known in the parish, with the number of communi-
cauts in each, and the number of sittings paid for by members of
each denomination in the Catholic or in Dissenting congregations
in Stranraer.

<TABLE>
	Denomination.              No. of Members    No. of       No. of sittings in Con-
Presby-			            of all ages.  Communicants.   gregations in Strauraer.
terian  Establishment                 1591           437
Protes-	Episcopalians attending
tants the Established Church,         24             3
Dissen- Catholics,                    114            32                  15
ters  Reformed Presbyterians,         64             23                  22
262 United Secession,                 161            52                  53
  Relief,                             55             18                  12

	There are five elders in the kirk-session  besides the minister;
 and three others have been lately elected. A parochial associa-
tion in aid of the General Assembly's four schemes, viz. Church
Extension, School Extension, Foreign missions, and Colonial
Churches, was formed in August last; the committee of manage-
ment consisting of a president and vice-president, the members of
kirk-session, thirteen collectors, a secretary, and a treasurer. Pro-
viously to the formation of this association, the average amount of
church collections yearly for religious and charitable objects, be-
sides the regular and ordinary weekly collections for the poor, may
be stated at L. 7.
	Education.--The number of schools in the parish, and the
number of scholars in each, varies so much not only from year to
year, but during every year, that the purpose of this Statistical
Account will be best served by the following report made to the


