
     of Montquhitter.

E. to W.  This stone, though much impregnated with iron ore,
rises in large masses, and is very fit for building.
   The cattle formerly reared in Montquhitter parish were ge-
nerally small sized, though well shaped and hardy, until a su-
perior breed was introduced by the late Mr Cumine of Auch-
ry, to whom this parish justly attributes its principal improve-
ments.  Prior to this aera, cows, that yielded 4 pints of milk
in the day, were thought pretty good; few male calves were
reared; and the farmer generally bought his oxen (whereof 12
were commonly yoked in one plough) when young, in distant
markets, and sold them, when old, at great discount.  Now,
cows give from 6 to 13 pints of milk in the day; male calves
are carefully reared; and our farmers frequently supply with
labouring cattle, those districts from which their fathers pur-
chased their numerous and expensive sets.  Cows, according
to their weight and quality, sell from 4 to 8 guineas each, and
oxen sell from 5 to 10 guineas each: some oxen and cows far
exceed these prices*.

     Q 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*This parish can boast of one cave only, the work of art, employed for a
purpose inimical to society, and now destroyed.  Towards the close of last
century, two young men, whose connections and residence were entirely un-
known, appeared at every public meeting.  A country man, who observed
smoke rising from a bank of moss in a wild hollow, marked the place, and
conveened the neighbours, who discovered the mouth of a cave.  In the cave
they found an old woman, who declared that she and her two sons had lived
there for some years;-that her sons had always supplied her with provisions
of every kind;-but that she was prevented by various motives from men-
tioning why she and they had settled in so clandestine a manner, and in so so-
litary a place.  The woman thereafter lived and died in Montquhitter parish;
but her sons, when their lurking-place was discovered, left the country.-
Some people having been pursued near that hollow, and others, who were
known to have money upon them, having unaccountably disappeared, it was
supposed, that the Glanders (the name which the two young men assumed)
had lived by theft and robbery, wherewith they scrupled not to associate that


