
                          CURRIE.                        549

Newmills. The spirited improvements which the large proprie-
tors are yearly carrying on on their respective estates have
greatly increased the value of these possessions;-of which we
may give an instance in that of Malleny, the rental of which, about
sixty years ago, was under L. 300 per annum, whereas it is now up-
words of L. 2000.
   There are several respectable families not heritors, who have
small properties with elegant mansions, which they hold of the lar-
ger estates of Ravelrig and Buteland.
   In connection with this, we may mention that some families of
inferior rank have been long resident in the parish, as for instance,
the present tenant on the farm of East Mill, with his father and
grandfather, have been farmers on the estate of Malleny for up-
wards of 120 years. The present tenants on the farms of Hare-
law, Kenleith, and Balleny, with their progenitors, have held land
on the same estate upwards of 100 years, and their ancestors, as
well as those of the Cuninghams of Balerno, have resided within
the parish for three or four centuries.

                     III.-POPULATION.
   The population of Currie was anciently much larger than it is
at present. Several populous villages have entirely disappeared,
and the upper parts of the parish in particular are much more
thinly inhabited now than formerly; one main cause of this
diminution being undoubtedly the extension of farms, and the
various improvements in modern husbandry, by which a few la-
bourers are competent to do the work which it required many
hands to overtake. For several years, however, the population of
this parish has been steadily increasing again from causes altoge-
ther independent of agriculture, viz. the erection of the numerous
mills that line the Water of Leith.

<TABLE>
                     In 1821, it amounted to 1715
                        1831,                1833
                        1841,                2000

   Longevity.-The inhabitants of Currie are rather famed for
being long-lived. William Ritchie died at the age of 108. His
son, Adam Ritchie, exceeded the age of 100. About fifty years
ago William Napier, Balerno, died at the age of 112. William
was an excellent pedestrian, and was frequently victor at the Lam-
mas races, formerly a favourite pastime in rural districts, where
the peasantry met and entered the lists to contest for small prizes.
This man, on one occasion, when running the "bruze" at a wed-


