

                                DURNESS.                            91

     western position. Several  plants which, to the eastward in the same
     latitude, grow "Pon the sides of the mountains, grow here on the
     beach.
        On the top of the cliff overhanging the sea at Cape Wrath, we
     have Salix herbacca and Silene acaulis; and near Keoldale we have
     Thalictrum alpinum, close to the high water mark.  Even a very
     few miles off, these plants have disappeared from the shore, and
     are met with only on the mountains, at a height increasing as we
     proceed eastward.  On the other hand, the neigbourhood of the
     sea secures that mild temperature during winter, which enables less
     hardy plants to thrive; or otherwise fits the fields of Durness for
     the growth of species which require a maritime climate.  This is
     true with respect to many plants with appear in the pastures.
     The Primula Scotica abounds here, and in many places near the
     north shore of Scotland, but it has not been observed anywhere
     upon the mountains either to the eastward or southward.
        The soil in the parish is various; but perhaps the only kind
     which, apart from the degree of moisture, seems to exert a sen-
     sible influence in modifying the natural productions, is that form-
     ed over limestone, which abounds in the inimediate vicinity of
     the manse, and crops out in in many places.  It is no doubt on
     account of this that Dryas octopetala is so profuse in Durness.
     To the eastward and in the south, it is met with on the moun-
     tains, and on various rocks, but here it seems confined to the lime-
     stone, and is most abundant at the level of the sea.  Equally cir-
     cumscribed, and on the same rock, is Epipactis Intifonlia, and  per-
     haps Draba incana extends no fartber.  Centaurea scabiosa is abun-
     dant in the fields around, and very seldom with white flowers.  All
     these, except the last, are likewise found on limestone in Assynt, but
     rarely, hf at all, in the intervening district, where limestone does
     not exist.  A great part of the flat land towards Cape Wrath is
     bog, wholly different from the close fine turf which forms the, sur-
     face near the manse.  It produces in abundance the ordinary coarse
     berbage which is found to cover wet ground throughout the Coun-
     try, as the various common species of Juncus, Carex and Eriopho-
     rum, while on the neighbouring drier banks we have Nardus stric-
     and the other grasses which generally grow along with it.  These
     very productive sheep pasture, and support a very excellent
     stock.  In the bogs, there is abundance of Pinguicula Lusitanica,
     and of Drosera Anglica.  Upon the shores of Sandwood and of


