
     of Halkirk.

   It has been already observed, that the soil and climate of
this parish and country, do not seem favourable to the pro-
duction of trees.  Yet, I believe, if proper methods had
been used, and due attention given to that necessary article,
some kinds of timber might thrive pretty well.  But there
are other kinds, which, in my opinion, will frustrate every
attempt to rear them.  Of this kind is the fir, as was also
specified before.  Yet it is certain that there was great
abundance of that timber once in this parish.  This mani-
festly appears from the remains of it that are still to be seen
in several parts of the parish, and indeed of the whole
country.  From this circumstance it would be naturally
concluded, that where that timber grew so well, and so
stately of old, without the aid of care or art, it would surely
grow there now, with the conjoined assistance of both art
and nature.  This is a paradox I will not pretend to solve,
though yet I am very much inclined to think, that it is to
be attributed to some change or revolution that has taken
place in the climate, and consequently in the soil, from
their mutual influence on one another.  To corroborate
this opinion I would remark, that about 23 years ago, there
were two or three small woods of birch and mountain ash,
etc. in a very blooming and vigorous state, in this and a
neighbouring parish, which are now almost wholly decayed
and withered root and branch.  This reverse is, no doubt,
in a great measure to be ascribed to the depredations of the
country people, who cannot withhold their hands from
growing timber, wherever their eyes behold it.  But from
this reverse, in so short a time, it seems to be principally
occasioned by the late unfavourable seasons, which have
proven as noxious to them as to other vegetables, and more
so, because, as was before observed, they are not raised out
of the earth, as other vegetables are, at the end of the sea-
son.  Does not this circumstance render it at least probable


