
                   BANFF.	         		       5

Boyndie bay, a bed of clay-slate is found reposing on graywacke;
the latter, at different points, protruding through the clay-slate, and
rising, adjacent to the harbour, to the height of about forty feet.
The clay-slate is found resting on the graywacke in a conform-
able position, and following its windings in thin strata as far as
they can be seen, till dipping or covered again by the soil or other
beds of sand and shingle resting upon them. The elevation of the
strata is different at different points. Where it is in conjunction
with the graywacke, it may be at an elevation of from 60&deg; to 80&deg;,
and gradually declining to a less angle of elevation as it recedes
from the graywacke and approaches the surface of the bed of clay-
slate. The clay-slate and graywacke at their junction alternate
with each other in thin veins for a small space, and are intersper-
sed occasionally with thin veins of graywacke slate. A little to the
westward of the rock called the Elf Kirk, at low water-mark, a small
portion of the old red sandstone formation makes its appearance, and
seems, to the eastward, to be in conjunction with the graywacke.
Above the old, rests a thin stratum of the new red sandstone; but
neither appear again at any other point within the parish. Adja-
cent to the harbour, thin veins of quartz, in a variety of ramifica-
tions, run through the graywacke. Around these veins the gray-
wacke is changed to a brown, as if the heat of the quartz, poured
in a liquid state into the crack, had changed its colour. The
thickness of these quartz veins, in some places, may be about a
foot, decreasing in size, in the different ramifications, till they
totally disappear. In general, the colour of the graywacke is chang-
ed, in a greater or less degree, at all points where the veins of
quartz are found.
   Towards the western side of the parish, there is a bed of mica-
slate of a fine grain, resting on secondary gneiss, which is in con-
junction, near Whitehills (in the parish of Boyndie) with the gray-
wacke, on which it appears to be reposing. This bed affords many
specimens of what is termed undulated mica-slate, and is travers-
ed, farther to the westward, by thin veins of lime, which, below
the flood-mark of the sea, is perforated with different kinds of pho-
las, which pierce the vein till obstructed by a vein of graywacke slate,
or some other of the siliceous rocks. This bed soon enters the pa-
rish of Boyndie, passing to the south-westward near Blair-shin-
noch.
   The only point where granite appears, is at a place called Cairn
of Ord, the most south-westerly part of the parisb. There, on a


