
94                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   Inns.-There are two inns in Dunbar, with excellent accommo-
dation, and there are fifty-four persons residing within the parish
licensed to sell beer and spirits,-a number by far too great. This is
a sore evil, which has long been complained of, and it appears to be
increasing. "There are," says the judicious writer of the last ac-
count, "no fewer than forty-six licensed alehouses where low-priced
spirits are retailed, and where the execrable custom of dram-drink-
ing is practiced. This we may justly pronounce to be the bane of
all good and the source of all evil.-the ruin of health and morals,-
and of all domestic duty and comfort,-the reproach of man, and the
disgrace of woman."
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   This parish is but of small extent, but it yields a large rental.
An improved system of agriculture having been early introduced, its
external surface has been but little changed since the last account;
but by a copious application of manure, and by excellent cultivation,
the soil has been rendered much more productive. The education
-the habits and comforts of the people-the revenue of the burgh,
and the rental of the parish-have all been greatly improved.
   The plough now in use is not the best that might be devised to
pulverize the soil, especially strong clays, so as to render them most
productive. One with more coulters-to cut the furrows into small
pieces, would permit the roots of plants to, spread more freely-
render the soil more capacious of moisture, and more susceptible
of heat.
   The nearer that field cultivation is brought to that of garden, the
greater the return; and an implement to be drawn by a horse to
Dutch-hoe the stubble, as soon as the crop is carried off, and some-
time before the land is ploughed, would be the most effectual
remedy against annual weeds. The trench plough, invented by
Mr Smith of Deanston, might be introduced here with great ad-
vantage.
   A railway has been projected from Cairnie, in the parish of In-
veresk, to the town of Haddington, and port of Dunbar. A plan
and estimate have been prepared by Robert Stevenson, Esq. civil-
engineer.
   All the hinds receive the same amount of gain-whatever be
their merits as servants or workmen. It is worthy of consideration
whether it would not greatly promote the interest of the farmer, as
well as ultimately that of the hind, to hold out to the latter, the
prospect of a higher allowance to such as excel.
   September 1835.


