
688                        FIFESHIRE.

L.50 annually, and is so conducted as to Prove an excellent auxili-
ary to the kirk-session. The principal ladies connected with the
parish patronize it.
  It must not be omitted, that a great deal of private charity is
unobtrusively distributed by the families of the principal heritors,
whether resident or otherwise. It is pleasant also to state, that
among the humbler classes, may instances occur of an habitual,
though little noticed readiness to communicate of their little to a
neighbour having less. The finest charities of life are thus produced.
  The two great coal proprietors, Mr Balfour of Whittingham
and Balgonie, and Mr Balfour of Balbirnie, make liberal donations
of coals each winter. The former not being resident, places his
coal bounty at the disposal of the kirk-sessiod, and never reduces
the list of expectants made up bv the elders. The Barnslee
family also do much in the way of private distribution to the
deserving poor. In the eastern art of the parish, the famliy of
Balfour has been long distinguished in this respect.
  With all these accessories, the parish funds present a large de-
ficit, which the heritors have hitherto met by voluntary assess-
ment. This is gradually becoming more onerous, and the kirk-
session experience augmenting difficulties in their management.
Indeed, in so far as relieving the poor ceases to be regarded as a
branch of charity, and passes into the predicament of an abso-
Iute legal claim, it becomes the more difficult for a kirk-session
to administer beneficially. Their position is pressed on the one
side by applicants, on the other by heritors, who have to provide
for deficiencies. In this conflict, their moral influence is exposed
to damage, and as it perishes, their usefulness suffers in propor-
tion. Yet the substitution of a machinery divested of all church
associations, and worked by legal power only, destroys one of the
healthiest agencies ever introduced into the parochial economy.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  On minor branches of parish statistics, it is not necessary to
dilate. It may be mentioned that the public health is under the
care of three active and well-qualified medical practitioners;
whereas, long after Dr Thomson wrote his Report, not one was
resident in the parish. These three reside in the village of Mark-
iach. There it nothing that requires special notice in the de-
partment of disease; here, as in other parts of the island, cases
of pulmonary consumption forming the largest class. The
mortality of the last forty years shows an average of 69, the
                              3


