
                               PANBRIDE.                        69

   One of the most ancient families of Angus is that of Panmure,
to which the whole property of this parish belongs. Galfred de
Maule appears to have held all the lands of Panmure by a charter
from Edgar King of Scotland, signed and sealed in the year
1072.
   Parochial Registers.--These commence in the year 1693, and
are regularly kept.
   Modern Buildings.--In the N. E. of the parish stands the spa-
cious and massy house of Panmure,--the principal seat of the no-
bleman to whom it belongs. It is built in an elevated situation,
surrounded by extensive enclosures and plantations, and commands
a fine prospect, especially to the south and east.--At a little
distance, are still to be seen the vaults and foundations of the old
castle of Panmure, long the residence of the Earls of that name.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>
             In 1801 the population amounted to 1583
                1811                            1412
                1821                            1275
                1831                            1268

   The decrease has been owing to the removal of some villages,
and to the uniting of a few small farms into one.
   The average number of baptisms yearly for the last seven years
is 32; of marriages, 13; of deaths, 22.
   The number of families in the parish is 300; whereof 88 are
chiefly employed in agriculture; 103 in trade, manufactures, and
handicraft; and 109 not comprised in the two preceding classes.
   Character and Habits of the People.--The people in general are
sober and moral in their habits; and regular in their attendance
on public ordinances. They are also, as might be expected, in-
dustrious and frugal; and are altogether a very respectable por-
tion of the community.
   The ordinary food of the peasantry consists chiefly of potatoes,
and of the various preparations of oatmeal; with occasionally a
little butcher-meat, generally pork, at dinner. Tea is in universal
use, from the highest to the lowest. On the whole, though many
are liable to participate in the occasional depressions of trade, it
may be stated that the people enjoy in a reasonable degree the
comforts and advantages of society.

<FOOTNOTE>county, and an account of every family of note belonging to it. This literary curio-
sity, of which, after particular inquiry, no other copy could be found, was translated
and published by Mr Traill, the late minister of St Cyrus, in the year 1793.


