
622                            FIFESHIRE.

black loam or a light sand mixed with shells, both of which, though
shallow, are very fertile. In the higher grounds, there is some
light soil, but the greater part of it is a deep clay, which yields
considerable crops in favourable weather. About 25 acres are co-
vered with wood.
 Rent of Land.-In the landward part of the parish, the rent
varies from L.2 to L.3 per acre; but the Burgh acres, or those
lying near the town, are let at a much higher rate. Some of them
have been held on lease for seven years at L. 8 per Scotch acre,
so that the lessee of an acre, alongst with a house and yard at L. 2,
imperial quarters of barley have been raised from half an acre;
and upon one acre, there have been produced ten tons of carrots,
which are worth about L. 3, 10s. per ton. The average rent may
be L. 3, 10s. per acre.
 Rent of grazing a cow or ox per annum, L. 3,
 Wages.-Wages of farm-servants for the year, when boarded in
the house, L.11. If they happen to be married men, the same
wages are given, together with a house, six bolls and a half of oat-
meal, a Scotch pint of milk per day, in addition to which they
have half a boll of patotoes planted. Day labourers receive in
summer 1s. 6d. per day, in harvest more, and in winter 1s. 2d. or
1s. 4d. Female servants have L. 6s. year, with board.
 Leases, &c.-The general duration of leases is ninenteen years,
-a term which seems to be considered as one of the most ad-
vantageous both for landlord and tenant. The houses of the far-
mers and the steading are all that could be wished. The com-
mon breed of cattle reared in the neighbourhood is the Fife.
 Fisheries.-The fish frequenting this part of the coast are cod,
ling, turbot, halibut, haddocks, skate, flounders, lobsters, crabs,
herrings, adn occasionally mackarel. Many thousands of dog-fish
are at times driven on shore by storms, and carried away for ma-
nure. In the former Statistical Account of the parish, it is men-
tioned, that lobsters were the only fish sent from this neighbour-
hond to the London market. Now, however, great quantities
of salted cod are sent thither; also smoked, or, as they are
called, Finsan haddocks, together with abundance of fresh fish,
are daily, in their seasons, transported to Edinburgh, Glasgow,
Cupar, &c. from the adjoining towns of Cellardyke, Easter Anstru-
ther, and Pittenweem, as will be more particularly mentioned in
the accoments of these parishes. Last year, a greater quantity of



