
     Of West Kilbride.

   This parish, it hath been observed before, abounds with
hills; it may indeed be called a system of them.  The names
of some of them are Gaelic.  The most remarkable are, the
Tarbet hill, the Law, the Auld hill, and the Comb or Camb, 
which signifies crooked.  They have all been used as signal 
posts in the times of the Danish invasions.  By fires from
their tops, the alarm was soon given of the appearance of an
enemy.  Upon the Auld hill, there are the remains of a cir-
cular building, which, it is likely, was occupied as a watch
tower.  At the foot of the second, stands another Gothic
castle, which takes its name from the hill, the Law, it is one
of the completed of the kind to be seen any where.  It was
formerly one of the seats of the Kilmarnock family, who had
large possessions in this part of the country; but at what time
it was built, no account can be given; but from its appear-
ance, it must be much more modern, than any of the other
two already described.  The last mentioned hill, is samed for
affording fine millstones, composed of a sort of coarse granite,
and are of an uncommonly hard and durable quality.  These
millstones are in such high repute, as to be demanded from
places at the distance of 80 miles; they are dispersed through
the Highlands and islands, and some of them exported to Ire-
land, to America, and the West Indies.
   There are no rivers in this parish, but a number of smaller
streams or burns, which, after heavy rains, sometimes come
down in vast torrents from the hills.  One of these, near the
northern boundary of the parish, taking its course through a
romantic glen, called the Glen of Southannan, is remarkable
for a series of beautiful cataracts, which diminish gradually
as the stream approaches the sea.  The largest of these falls
at the head of the glen, is indeed a striking piece of nature's
work.  The whole stream issuing with a rapid current from
between 2 high hills, precipitates over a rock from the height

     3 G 2
 

