
     Statistical Account

stationed on the S. fide of Strathmore, at Ingliston, (i. e. Eng-
lish town) where remains of their camp are still discernible;
the Scotch forces, or a considerable part of them, at least, on
the N. side of the strath, at the foot of the Grampian moun-
tains, having their front covered by the river isla.  A coni-
cal mount in this parish, called Saddle-hillock, is said to have
been made use of by the English, perhaps to command the
ford at Dellavaird, whilst their troops marched over to at-
tack the Scotch, and to have received its name from some cir-
cumstance which took plce on that occasion, but which is not
distinctly related.  The hillock stands upon a very level field,
is of considerable height, and has upon its top the remains of
a small earthen fort, evidently artificial; and appears from an
opening made in its side, to have been composed of large
stones, some of which are smoothed, as if they had been taken
from the bed of the river.  Whether it was erected on this
occasion, or whether it might not have been much more an-
cient, it is not easy to determine.  It would appear that the
English were repulsed in their attempt to ford the river, pur-
sued by the Scotch, and brought to an engagement, to the
S. of the river, and hillock above mentioned, where, under
a huge cairn in the E. moor (heath) of Ruthven, their dead
are said to be buried.  On the S. side of the river, in the pa-
rish of Alyth, the place where the Scotch forces were sta-
tioned, still goes by the name of Brucetown; and 2 large
standing stones are still to be seen erected in remembrance of
this event.  Upon one of these is a representation of a horse-
shoe, an emblem sufficiently expressive in the eventful history
of the celebrated Scottish hero*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*This evedently alludes to Bruce's narrow escape from England, when Ed-
ward had resolved to murder him, "Brussius interea per comitem Gomerize a-
vitum amicum certior de repomtino periculo factus; qui non aufus fugz confi-


