
                                BLAIRGOWRIE.                      905

     of the passage of the salmon up the stream.  In summer, when the
     river is low, its course is here so hemmed in by encroaching rooks
     on each side, that it is quite possible to leap across, although the
     feat is certainly attended with some peril.
       The scenery of the river, in the vicinity of the town, is very
     beautiful, comprehending those most essential elements of roman-
     tic seenery,-wood, water, and rocks, in finely diversified combi-
     nations.
       Geoloqy.-The chief geological formations in the parish are of
     three kinds, 1st, greywacke; 2d, greenstone; 3d, sandstone,
     or conglomerate.   In the northern division of the parish we
     find an extensive bed of clay slate at a place called Rochalzie,
     about four miles to the northward of the town, where it was
     some years ago quarried for roofing houses, a purpose for which
     it seemed to be well adapted.   This quarry has for some years
     past been discontinued, owing partly to the difficult and expense
     of carriage, and partly to the limited demand for the slates, which,
     though of durable quality, were of a disagreeable yellowish-blue co-
     lour.  This formation seems to stretch across the parish in a wes-
     terly direction; but it is not again visible on the surface at any
     other point.   Its thickness is supposed to be about 40 feet,
     and it dips at an angle of about 40&deg; north-west.   Proceeding
     southward, we meet with a stratum of greenstone or whinstone,
     stretching along the summit of the ridge already described, call-
     ed Knock-ma-har, and extending quite across the parish, from
     east to west, into the  adjoining parish of Kinioch.  The same
     formation is seen also in the adjoining parish of Rattray, at a place
     called the Cats-craigs, where it rises into cliffs of considerable ele-
     vation.  The strata are nearly horizontal, with aslight inclination
     to the north-west. Still farther south, all along the southern
     slope of the ridge immediately to the north of the town, and ex-
     tending into the lower ground to the south and west, there hs a
     very extensive stratum of coarse red sandstone or conglomerate,
     of great thickness, running in a north-westerly direction across
     the parish.  It dips towards the north-west with an angle of
     about 15&deg;.   About a mile to the south-east of the town, this
     red sandstone assumes a much finer grain and darker colour, and
     forms a perpendicular cliff of considerable height on the bank
     of the river, at a place called the Red-brae, where it was par-
     tially quarried some years ago.  About a mile to the south of this,
     there is another very regular and beautiful stratum of fine grey


