
			WEST KILBRIDE.			     263

tivation of these crops in this place. * Hitherto potatoes have been
far more extensively cultivated than turnips, which are of recent
introduction; but this is fast changing in favour of the latter. The
Swedish turnip is greatly preferred to all others, and in thrives un-
commonly well on almost all kinds of soil and situations. Carrots
have been still more recently introduced; and, though occasional-
ly yielding singularly profitable crops, are not sown to any con-
siderable breadth. They are of nice and troublesome cultivation,
and withal subject in an uncommon degree to be destroyed by
maggots, and otherwise. Mangel-wurzel has but just made its ap-
pearance, and it is not likely successfully to compete with Swe-
dish turnip; nevertheless it deserves further trial, as the plant seems
to thrive very well on good deep land. Ryegrass is extensively
raised here; and it is nearly all ripened for seed, which sells for
raised 2s. to 3s. a bushel. But this is a practice by no means con-
sistent with good farming, the succeeding pastures being greatly
deteriorated by its scourging effects, so that nothing but the pres-
sing necessities of the cultivator can excuse such a course. Flax
may be said to have wholly disappeared, scarcely a patch being
now to be seen.
	Leases.--The usual duaration of leases has long been for nine-
teen years; but latterly, there seems an inclination on the part of
landlords to shorten them, which is certainly a very mistaken view,
whether as regards the one party or the other; the independence
and prosperity of the tenant alone can redound to the interest and
advantage of the owner of the soil.
	Farm Buildings.--As to farm-buildings, a great many steadings
have latterly been reconstructed, and such, for the most part, have
been substantially and commodiously built. Others are still very
comfortless and unsuitable to the purposes required. The imple-
ments of husbandry here are all of the most approved oder, the
iron plough being general, but single horse carts alone are used.
Thrashing-mills have become general, few farms of any size being
without one.
	Manufactures.--Besides a tan-work, which employs eight or ten
hands, the only branch of manufacture here is that of weaving and

<FOOTNOTE>The following incidental notice of the early cultivation of the potatoe occurs in
the sessional records here:--"Sabbath, October 24, 1725: This day compared Ro-
bert Miller (and some others) who owned, that about twintie days ago, they were at
Corsbie, in time of publick worship, but pretended that they were seeking a horse
were digging had wandered away. It being suggested by some of the members, that they
noise in the hall: which they denyed."


