
404                       LANARKSHIRE.

ment of lines in the battle of Dettingen. There are many trees
of great size and age on the estate, and especially around the house
of Cadder. The quantity of planting on Cadder estate, compris-
ing 4078 acres, is considerably above 280 acres. Garnkirk estate,
consisting of 1457 acres, contains 150 of planting. Bedlay es-
tate, which, when possessed by the Robertons, after the Earl of
Kilmarnock, contained so much planting, has now only 20 acres
under wood. On Robroyston estate, which consists of about 550
acres, there are not above 10 acres of planting. The greater part
of the natural wood in the parish is on the banks of Millbrae and
Gartferry, and on the estates of Auchengeich and Cadder.
	The love of money, and the desire to lay house to house, and
field to field, have made many parts of this parish, once popu-
lous, now a wilderness. The few who yet linger here of former
generations can tell of ten farm-steadings in their remembrance
now effaced from the map of the parish. Within the last twenty-
six years, no fewer than thirteen properties, some ofthen of consi-
derable extent, and which were considered as secure as the founda-
tions of the everlasting hills, have from necessity exchanged pro-
prietors, and the decent families have been reduced and scattered.
Many passages in the Deserted Village, apply strongly and ap-
propriately to the parish of Cadder.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	There is a tradition that, about the year 1666, the plague visit-
ed Auchenairn, and other villages in the parish.
	Distinquished Families.--The Grays of Chryston were a fami-
ly of very considerable antiquity, possessed of a large property,
and who cultivated an ardent, rational, and scriptural piety. The
first feu-charter is granted by Walter, heritable proprietor of the
lordship and barony of Glasgow, to John Gray of Chryston, No-
vember 1589. The family is now extinct. The last that died
should have been called Purdon, but he preferred and continued
the name of Gray.
	Two of the Muirs of Gartferry, a rather ancient and respect-
able family, the last the great-grandfather of the present proprie-
tor, are still spoken of by every aged person in the parish as re-
markable for piety.
	Dr William Leechman, Principal of the University of Glas-
gow, was proprietor of the estate of Auchenairn. In 1764, he gave
a house for the teacher, and a school for the children, and the elec-
tion of the schoolmaster to the moderator and remanent members

                                3


