
                                      DUFFUS.                              39

          comforts and advantages of society. Their general character is in-
          telligent and industrious, as well as moral and religious. No poaching,
          smuggling, or any species of unlawful traffic prevails amongst them.

<TABLE=Agriculture>                IV.-INDUSTRY

               Extent of arable English Acres in the parish of Duffus,  5,381
               In pasture,                                              2,962
               Under wood,                                                310
                                                                        _____
                                                                        8,653
             No part of this parish remains in a state of undivided common.
          Little of the land which does lie waste would repay the expense of
          cultivation.
             Scotch firs in too large a proportion with all the kinds of hard
          wood, occur in the plantations which are (with one exception) well
          managed, as regards thinning, periodical felling, pruning, &C.
             Rent of Land.-Some of the land is rented at L.2, 10s. to L.3
          per acre, but the average rent of arable land, including pasture,
          let in potatoes with the arable ground, may be statedat L.1, 6s. 6d
          per English acre.
             Rate of Wages.-Labourers at farm and other work earn in the
          long day 1s. 8d. and in the short 1s.4d; tradesmen gain 2s, 6d.
          in summer, and 2s. in winter; ploughmen are boarded in families,
          and their wages are from L.9 to L.12 a-year.
             Husbandry.- Considerable attention has of late been paid to
          improving the breed of cattle, aided much by premiums offered by
          the Morayshire Farmers Club,-tbe breed being locally known
          as Morayshire, and somewhat resembling the Highland breed,
          but of more weight. The general rotation of cropping is the six-shift
          with two years grass; but some of the strong clay land is wrought
          in a four-shift series with one year grass. Most farms are tolera-
          bly well drained and in a good state of tillage, and generally held
          on leases of nineteen years duration, affording reasonable allowance
          and opportunity for improvement. The farm-buildings are mostly
          straw thatched, but substantial and of suitable extent for the size
          of the farms, and in general in good order. On several farms, the
          property of Sir W. Gordon Cummin, the tenants are recliming
          waste land by deep trenehing at an expense of about L.10 per
          Scotch acre. Lime has within these few years been extensively
          used as a manure by the more opulent farmers, and with decided
          success.
             Produce.-The gross amount of raw produce raised in pa-
          rish is supposed to be as follows:


