
	                      FENWICK.                           773

other parishes; and many of the dissenting congregations that were
afterwards formed in the surrounding parishes, were offsets from
this parent congregation.
       After Mr Smytane had been their minister for about forty years,
dissension arose in the eongregation about what seemed to them
a matter of great importance, namely, whether the communion
elements should be taken up by the presiding minister, before
what is called the consecration prayer. They were divided into
two parties denominated the lifters and the non-lifters; the latter
contending that the elements should iiot be taken up in the hands
of the minister, till be was about to distribute the bread and the
wine set apart by prayer. The contention was so sharp, that Mr
Smytane renounced his connection with the Synod. Part of the
congregation adhered to him, but the majority who had left him,
chose, after his death in 1789, the Rev. George Paxton to be
their pastor,--a man of worth and of distinguished abilities; who
was elected in 1808 to be the Professor of Divinity in Edinburgh
and who is well-known in all the churches by his excellent work,
"Illustrations of Sacred Scripture."
	Education.--Number of schools three. Parochial schoolmas-
ter's salary, L. 25, 19s. Amount of his fees, about L. 18 per an-
num.
	Poor.--Number of persons receiving aid, 34. Sum raised last
year by contribution in the church, L. 30, 17s. Amount of assess-
ment last year, L.100.

	January 1842.


			      PARISH OF FENWICK.

		PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		      THE REV. ROBERT FERGUSON, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	THE parish of Fenwick anciently formed part of Kilmarnock.
In 1642, it was disjoined from that parish, and was for some time
known by the name of New-Kilmarnock. It appears to have been de-
rived its present name from Fenwick hill, in the neighbourhood
of the church. The name is probably of Gaelic origin.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The length of the parish is about 9


