
48                   SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

said that we have more rain in winter than there is in other parts
of this island.
  Notwithstanding the coldness of our climate, however, it is re-
markably healthy. With the exception of catarrhs in the months
of March and October, diseases but rarely visit the inhabitants.
  Hydrography.-The lakes in this parish are very numerous, but
not remarkable for extent. Of Loch Craggie, in its western ex-
tremity, anglers speak with rapture for the size and quality of its
trout, and for the excellent sport it affords. In the north-eastern
extremity of the parish, there are two lakes in which fine trout are
found. Their name implies that they were once on this account
held in estimation; both being called Loch-beannached, Lake Of
Blessing.
   The only rivers are those already mentioned, the Fleet and the
Brora. Even the larger of these is insignificant in summer and
harvest; but both when in flood, discharge a great body of water,
and often cover almost the whole of the plains in their courses, so as
to present the appearance of a succession of lakes. The Fleet
has its origin in a rising ground, forming the boundary between the
parishes of Rogart and Lairg. After traversing ten miles, from
west to east, in many windings, fringed with birch and alder bushes,
it enters an extensive plain, once covered by every tide from the
Moray Frith, but now encroached upon only by this stream: the
waters of the sea being completely shut out by the earthen mound,
at the head of the Little Ferry. In this place, where it is not con-
fined by the skill and enterprise of the agriculturist, it appears
almost completely lost among rapidly growing alders, until it
collects itself into a pool, or forms a considerable lake, before being
discharged into the sea by the sluices of the mound. The Brora is
about twice the size of the Fleet, has its origin in the high moun-
tain Beinclibric, and passes from west to east traversing ten miles
of this parish in its course. It then enters the parish of Clyne,
where it unites with another river called the Blackwater, and pas-
sing through that parish, it joins the Moray Frith at a village to
which it has given its name, and affords a harbour for light shipping.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-Rogart lies chiefly on gneiss rock, in
which the only veins seen are of quartz. It is of a large-grained
kind, with a great proportion of mica. It is used in building the
houses and cottages of the inhabitants, and is found an excellent
material for the purpose, being easily wrought.



