
                         MONYMUSK.                            473

at Aberdeen, and for the support of one of the lunatics belonging
to the parish ; also for the India Mission, Highland Schools, and
other schemes of the General Assembly.
   The poor here, in general, seem to possess that laudable spirit
of honest independence, which renders them very averse from ap-
plying for parochial aid, unless compelled by absolute necessity:
and there have not been wanting instances of poor persons who
had been in the way of receiving it regularly, having declined it
as soon as, by a little assistance from their children or friends, they
could possibly live without it, and of having again had recourse to
it under another unfavourable change of circumstances.
   Fairs.-There are three annual fairs held in the parish, two of
them at Whitsunday and Martinmas, chiefly for the engaging of
servants; and the other on the last Thursday of August, for cattle.
   Monthly markets have also been established of late, for the sale
of cattle and grain, during the winter months, and are held in the
village on the second Mondays of December, January, February,
March, and April.
   Inns.-There is a good inn, with excellent accommodation, in
the village, and an alehouse at the Ferry-Boat, on the opposite
side of the Don, both which are found necessary at these stations,
for the accommodation of travellers; and they are not believed to
have much, if any, bad effect on the morals of the people in gene-
ral, as they are kept by persons of respectable character, who dis-
courage drinking to excess in their houses, to which but few of
the people are much inclined.  There is no other public-house
in the parish.
   Fuel.-The most common fuel consists of peat and turf ; but,
as moss is not very plentiful in the parish, a considerable quantity
of wood is also used, with some coals from Aberdeen, and from
Kintore, to which they are conveyed in boats by the Aberdeenshire
canal,-the cost of the boll when brought from either place, includ-
ing the carriage, and the higher price charged at Kintore, being
about 7s.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIOINS.
   Since the time of the last Statistical Account, a considerable
quantity of waste land, (about 480 acres imperial measure,) has
been brought into cultivation ; the plantations have been much
enlarged, public roads greatly improved, and drainage carried to
a considerable extent.  The establishment of a distillery has been
already noticed; and there is little else worthy of remark under


