
282                       FIFESHIRE.

however, the estate has been generally under trustees, either from
minorities or from- involvment, so that it has not been possible to
do any thing for the benefit of the Harbour, nor is there any
prospect from that quarter for many years to come. Aware of this,
some of the neighbouring gentlemen and farmers, interested in the
prosperity of the county, and the success of agriculture, held a
meeting at Elie in the month of May last, Mr Keith Douglas of
Denino in the chair, where resolutions were unanimously adopted,
expressive of the importance of the place, both for the purposes of
trade, and as a harbour of refuge; and it was agreed to request Mr
Stevenson, civil-engineer, to survey it,--reporting as to the means
by which it might be best improved, and the expense that might be
required; it being understood that if his report should prove favour-
able, immediate steps should be taken to carry the projected improve-
ments into effect. Mr Stevenson has now given in his report, fully
confirming the practicability of the undertaking at no very startling
sum, betwixt L. 4000 and L. 5000. The report has been approved
of; and the committee is now in the course of correspondence with
Sir Windham Anstruther, and his trustees, for the purpose of obtain-
ing their sanction; and should their attempt be successful, it is pro-
bable that the works would be immediately carried into effect, there
being little doubt that the requisite sum might be easily raised,
by the sale of shares. As the harbour, however, from being a
place of refuge, would benefit not only the coast of Fife, but the
kingdom at large, it should seem only fair that Government should
assist in forwarding the undertaking.
   Meteorology and Climate.--Elie, although lying so much to the
east, is pretty well sheltered from the east winds. In spring, in-
deed, the easterly breeze, especially when accompanied with rain,
may be unpleasant enough. But it seldom continues long; and
we have remarked ourselves--the same observation having been
made to us by strangers-that in summer it is rather agreeable;
for in very hot weather, a sea-breeze from the east generally
springs up towards the afternoon, and helps to moderate the tem-
perature. During winter the cold is not excessive; and from the
vicinity of the sea, frost and snow are seldom of long duration.

sion-house. One of the Ladies Anstruther ordered it to be removed; and it is said,
that, on leaving the place, one of the old inhabitants, a female, who passed among her
neighbours for being wiser than she ought, predicted that the family should not
flourish again for seven generations. The prophecy is still devoutly believed by
a number of people; and the fact has added strength to their faith,-the sixth pro-
prister, within the memory of middle aged men, being now in possession, and some
disaster having occurred in the history of them all.


