
242			   ARGYLESHIRE.

of Argyle resided.  It is a square building, of which nothing re-
mains but the outward shell.  It has an echo but it is much less
distinct than the one in the castle of Glensanda.
   The oldest of all these ancient buildings in this parish is the
castle of Tirefoor, in Lismore, on the property of Sir John Camp-
bell, as appears from its being built with dry stones without any
lime or mortar.  It is formed of two concentric circles, the
diameter of the inner one being about 20 feet.  The space
between the two circles is no more than sufficiently large to ad-
mit of a man walking through, and is covered with flags placed
across the tops of the walls, but it is now greatly filled up with rub-
bish.  It war evidently intended for a " beacon or watchtower,
and, accordingly, it is built upon an eminence commanding a most
extensive view, so as to be seen from neighbouring towers and
heights."
   The ruins of religious houses were already described in our at-
tempt to give the etymology of the word Appin.  They are the
church of Island muncill-challum-chille; Annaid and Clagh-clau-
riollan.
   The obelisks in the parish are only two; one of them stands on
the farm of Achar in Duror.  It is an erect pillar, thirteen feet
high, and gives its name to the farm on which it stands, i. e. Acha,
a field, and Carragh, a pillar, the field of the pillar.  The other
is on the farm of Inverfolla in Strath of Appin.  it is of the same
size with the stone at Achar, but, having been by some means or
other upset, it is now lying on the spot where it once stood.
There was another on the globe of Lismore, but it has been broken,
at the height of three feet from the ground.  Near it are the re-
mains, of some ancient walls, and tradition says that they were the
walls of a sanctuary, whither malefactors of every description fled
for refuge, during the darkness of past ages.  The stone is called
in Gaelic, Clach na h'eala, " the stone of the swan."  And it is
said that the malefactor fleeing to the sanctuary was safes when
once he laid his hand upon The horn of the altar, Cloch na k'eala,
and after remaining a year and a day within the walls, he came
out absolved from all his crimes.  The burying-ground of Lismore
which is a small knoll near the church, commonly called the
Cross, from circumtance of a stone cross having once stood
upon its summit, the pedestal of which is still seen, being a square
block of stone, sunk in the earth until its upper face is level with
the surfaces and having a tenor or square socket dug out of its
                                  3


