
                           DIRLETON.                         217

reserving to his son William the rectory of Gohn during his life.
This grant included the patronage of the church; and on the
death of William de Vaux the rector, a vicar was appointed by
the monks of Dryburgh to serve the cure. With them the pa-
tronage continued till the Reformation. On the dissolution ofre-
lious houses, the lands and patronages belonging to them were
disposed of by the king. The patronage of Golyn went to the Er-
skines, Earl of Marr, and Lords Cardross, who got the Abbacy of
Dryburgh. In an act of Parliament in favour of James Maxwell,
quoted afterwards, it is ordered that "a charter be expede under
the Great Seal, granting him and his heirs in the barony of Fen-
toun, the right of patronage of Dirletoun, parsonage and vicarage
thereof." Such charter was accordingly expede 25th July 1636.
The position of the church being at the western extremity of the
parish, was found very inconvenient, and by the subjoined act of
Parliament, of date 23d October 1612, it was ordered to be remov-
ed to Dirleton. *  It appears, however, that the church only had
been then removed, the manse and glebe still continuing at Gu_
lane; for Mr M'Ghie in his Statistical report of 1627 thus speaks:
"Siclyke he hath ane manse and ane gleib in Gulane, a long myle
from the kirk of Dirletoun."  Six years after this, these also
seem to have been transferred to Dirletoun. An act of Parliament
was passed 29th June 1633, in favour of James Maxwell of Inner-

<FOOTNOTE>23d October 1612. Act for translating the kirk of Gulane to Dirleton.
" Our Soverane Lord and Thri Estaittes of this present Parliament, understanding
and being crediblie informit that the kirk of Gulane is situat at the outsyde of the
haill parochin thairof, quilk is ane great parochin, and is sa incommodiouslie situat
besyde the sea sand, that the same, with the kirk yard thairof, is continewallie over
blawin with sand; that nather the kirk serves commodiouslie for convening of the pa-
rochiners, nor yet the kirk yard for thair burial, besydis mony utheris inconvenientis
staying the saidis parochiners in time of storme and unseasonable weather to convene
at the said kirk. and considering lykwayis that the towne of Dirletoun is ane floris-
ing towne, and lyis within the said parochin of Gullane, within the middle thairof,
and it is the will and intention of the haill parochiners of the said kirk of Gulane
that the same kirk be transportit fra the said towne of Gulane to the said towne of
Dirleton, as weill for the ease and commoditie of the parochiners as of the ministers
serving the cure of the said kirk. Thairfore it is thocht maist expedient, be our So-
verand Lord and Estaittes foresaidis, that ane kirk and kikyard he erected and big-
git within the said towne of Dirletoun, for serving the haill parochiners of the kirk
foresaid, and to that effect it is statute and ordainit be these presentis, that it sal be
lesum to Thomas Viscount Fentoun, Lord Dirletoun. &c. to demolishe and cast
down the said kirk of Gulane, and to transport the stanes haill tymmer work and
otheris materiallis thairof, to the said town of Dirletoun, for bagging of ane new kirk
within the samyn, providing that the said Viscount obtene the consent thairto of the
presbyters within the quilk the said kirk of Gulane lyis and tb consent of the pa-
rochiners thairof, or the maist part of tharne, and that in the mayn tyme the said
Viscount find and furneis ane sufficient hous and place within the said towne of Dirle-
toun, whair the word may be preachit and the sacramentis administered to the saidis
parochiners, quil the said kirk be sufficientlie biggit and finishit.




