
332                      LANARKSHIRE.

	The population is thus distributed:--

<TABLE>
		In the town or village of Crawford,	             217
					  Leadhills,	            1188
		In the country part of the parish,	             445
		The average of births,	                              59
			       deaths,	                              26
			       marriages,	                      13
			       persons under 15 years of age,	     578
				       above 70,	              23
The number of families in the parish is						406
		       chiefly employed in agriculture,	   			 59
					in trade, manufactures,	and handicraft,  35

        not included under either of these descriptions,                        312

	All the proprietors of land, to the number of twelve, possess land
upwards of the yearly value of L. 50.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--Notwithstanding the extent of the parish, the
arable ground is very limited, being not more than 1200 cres. As
the parish is chiefly pastoral, it is difficult to say to what extent
improvements might be carried on with advantage to the tenant.
A very few hundred acres might perhaps be added to the arable
grounds; but it is the opinion of the judicious farmer, that much
improvement might be made by turning up large tracts of rough
moorlands, and sowing them with various kinds of grass seeds; and
by adding a portion of lime, according to the nature of the soil.
	There is no natural wood in the parish; and till within these
few years there were few trees in it excepting around Newton and
the old castle. A number of small clumps have been planted dur-
ing the last ten years. Still the number of acres under wood does
not exceed 150. It seems evident that the clumps are too small to
do much good in this high climate. There are a few old trees in
the parish; these are chiefly ash, elm, and plane. It is quite un-
certain whether these are the remains or not of the old forests.
A charter, in the charter-chest of the Marquis of Lothian, secures
to the inbabitants of Crawford the liberty to cut wood in the Forest
of Glengonan, where there are now only two or three solitary trees.
	Rent of Land.--As nothing but the best land is kept in cultiva-
tion, the average rent may be stated as high as L. 1, or perhaps
L. 1, 5s. The rate of grazing may be thus stated; an ox or cow,
L. 2, 10s.; a ewe, 4s. 3d. for the year.
	Rate of Wages.--There are few men-servants engaged express-
ly for the purpose of farm labour; but those who are thus em-
ployed may receive wages varying in the rate betwixt L.6 and L.12;
young girls receive from L. 1, 10s. to L. 3, 10s.; full-grown stout wo-
men, who can milk cows, from L. 4 to L. 8 for the year. Shepherds


