
	1008			PERTHSHIRE.

	will add to the beauty of the site. The situation of Murthly
	Castle, with its undulating grounds and woods, is very fine. The
	whole bears the marks of antiquity, exhibiting an interesting ap-
        pearance, and leading the mind back to the rude ages of feudal

	power.
		The family seat of Mr Stewart of Dalguise is situated in the
	Bishoprick; the mansion-house is partly and partly modern, and
	is prettily situated on the left of the public road which leads to Tay-
	mouth.
		Two miles above Dalguise, on the right, is Kinnaird House,
	the residence of the Lady Dowager Glenlyon, the property of the
	Atholl family. It is situated on a rising ground near the bank of
	the river Tay, and the situation is romantic.
		Besides these, there is Birnam Lodge and Birnam Cottage,
	nearly opposite to Dunkeld, - the former the residence of the Ho-
	nourable Fox Maule, the latter of Dr Smyttan, late of India.
	There is also a handsome mansion now being built, in the cottage
	style, by a Perth gentelman (Mr Wallace), on the western face
	of a beautiful detached hill called the Torwood. It looks toward
	Dunkeld. The situation is very fine, and the prospect lovely.
		The Bridge of Dunkeld is so well known, that it is not neces-
	sary here to give a minute description of it. It was built in 1809
	by the late Duke of Atholl, assisted by a grant from Government.
	It is a splendid specimen of architecture, and of wast benefit, not
	only to the inhabitants of the surrounding districts, but to the
	country at large.
		Family of Stewart of Dalguise.- The following brief notice of
	the family of Dalguise has been communicated: " This family
	derives its descent from Sir John Stewart of Cardney and Arntul-
	lie, the youngest natural son of King Robert II, by Marion or Ma-
	riote de Cardney, daughter of John de Cardney of the Ilk, and
	sister of Robert, Bishop of Dunkeld, from 1396 to 1436.
		From King Robert III his brother, Sir John Stewart, ob-
        tained a charter of the two Cardneys and Butterson inter lacos,
	dated 12th February 1399. There was also granted to him a
	pension 'furth of the customs of Dundee.' He was knighted in
        1424 at the coronation of King James I, and married Jean Dram-
	mehd, sister of Arabelle, Queen of Robert III. To the Laird of
	Amiollei, bailie of the ragality of Dunkeld, the decendant of Sir
        John Stewart, the Regent Earl of Murray, addressed his order
        is 1560, directing him to take down, and burn openly, all the


