
               UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.                  1157

bad effects; but it is to be observed that the College has uniform-
ly raised the value where it had the power to do so.  Besides, it is
the opinion, formed on experience of all the members, that large
bursaries, that is, above L.20 or L.30, are not favourable to stu-
dious habits, and that the inconvenience on this side is greater than
on the other.  No doubt, it is desirable, that no bursary should
be under L.10 to L.15; and it may safely be said that, had the Col-
lege been in all cases trustees of the capital sum, with full power,
there would now be none under that value. But King's College
has, at all events, reason to be proud of her management of the
funds actually intrusted to her for the benefit of poor scholars,
and may safely challenge the world to.produce another example of
equal skill and integrity in the management of so numerous and
often individually small trusts.  If we take the earlier bursaries,
thus managed by the College, excluding one or two recent and
large bequests, we shall find that the annual revenue of the trust-
funds is not far from being equal to the original fee-simple of the
funds.  It is only just that the truth nn this matter of the mortifi-
cations of King's College should be known, for it has often, and
especially of late, been much misrepresented, and King's College
has been accused authoritatively of malversation, and of acting
contrary to the will of the founder, for acting as they have done.
To take only one example, in Adam's mortification, at first design-
ed to support three bursars at L.3, 6s. 8d. each, or to yield L-10
in all ; this fund might have been kept in its original amount,
say in the funds, and such a mode of management has not only
been frequently practised elsewhere, but praised in others, as ful-
filling the intentions of the founder, by the very parties who blame
King's College.  But King's College acted differently; invested
the capital with caution and skill ; and now maintains out of this
fund twelve bursars instead of three, expending on them L.200 in-
stead of L.10 annually.  This is called acting contrary to the will
of the founder, nay, it is actually affirmed to be contrary to the
spirit, and not merely to the letter of that will.  This is, moreover,
what is stigmatized as multiplying small bursaries ; twelve bursa-
ries averaging L-16, 13s. 4d. being substituted for three of L.3,
6s. 8d.  It ought here likewise to be stated, that the masters have
no personal interest in the gradual and slow improvement nf these
trust-funds.  The only way in which they are personally benefit-
ed thereby is by the class-fees paid by the newly made bursars.
But the increase under this head to any one individual during his


