
                        ROSENEATH.                                 133


procity of civilities, diffused over several weeks of their, vacation,
bore very hard upon their sobriety and temperance.
   Now, not half a-dozen individuals prosecute the fishery beyond
the shores that skirt the farms, which now, with few exceptions,
would creditably bear comparison with fields of similar size in the
most highly cultivated counties.
  Then, also, according to that Account, there were "plenty of
whisky houses in the parish," which must have been fatal attrac-
tives during the long, nights of winter, to the unoccupied fishermen.
Now there are just two regularly licensed--"the two Ferry houses,"
if not to the parishioners, yet to the stranger and the traveller con-
sidered indispensable conveniences.
   Previous to Huskisson's Act of 1829 for the encouragement of
legal distillation, many of the cottagers were engaged in smuggling
operations, like others in the mountain districts of the contiguous
counties. The position and form of the parish rendering it pecu-
liarly suitable for the prosecution of this unlawful manufacture and
traffic, others than the natives burrowed with their stills in the se-
questered ravines. For many years these illicit practices have been
altogether abandoned; but when the mind of a community has been
long familiarized to any evil, the demoralizing consequences may
linger long after the evil itself shall have passed away.
   In those days also, and till within these very few years, other prac-
tices, although not violating any distinct law, yet doubtless offending
decorum, very generally prevailed. At marriages, for example,
numerous crowds assembled, and generally they were very boiste-
rous festivities. On the intermediate days, before the kirking, the
young pair with their attendants, preceded by the bagpipe, per-
ambulated the parish, visiting the cottages that had furnished their
quota to the carnival. The ceremonies were closed by the whole
party, after Divine service on Sabbath adjourning for refreshment
to the contiguous tavern.
   Now, marriages consist of small family parties: only the nearer
kindred of the bridegroom and the bride meet on the happy ocea-
sion, and thus is secured a far greater delicacy in the expression of
kindly sympathies, than marked the penny or crowded bridals of
former times.
   Baptisms were habitually desecrated by the accompanying cere-
monies. The kindred and friends assembled, with the parents after
the dismissal of the congregation, and, proceeded, like the marriage
parties, to eat and to drink in the house of refreshment, under the


