
                       LONGFORGAN.                           421

l0s. 5d.; of dues for mortcloth and hearse, L. 6, 3s. ; for pro-
clamation of bans, L. 1, 5s. 7d. ; of seat-rents, L. 2, 6s. ; of in-
terest of money, L. 9, 4s. ; contributed by heritors, L. 30 ; total,
L. 98, 9s.
   Instances are frequently to be met with of persons submitting
to considerable hardships rather than be at all dependent on the
charity of the public.  But I rather think that this very honour-
able feeling is somewhat impaired, and that the disinclination to
apply for parochial relief is neither so strong, nor so universal as
it formerly was.
   Fairs.-Two fairs have been held in Longforgan since 1663,
on the first Wednesday of June, and the first Wednesday of Oc-
tober, O. S.  Besides these there is a third, known as the tryst,
which was established by the late Mr Paterson of Castle Huntly,
in 1807, and which is kept on the last Monday of April.  These
fairs are chiefly for the sale of cattle, and a good deal of such bu-
siness is done.  The June fair used to be greatly frequented for
the hire of farm-servants, but it is not now so much resorted to for
this purpose.  It is alleged, and with reason, that there is an im-
propriety in contracting new engagements five months before the
conclusion of those still existing, and that the certainty of their
removal from their present situations at the somewhat distant term
of Martinmas, is not unlikely to have an unfavourable influence on
the minds of servants, to give birth to habits of carelessness, and
perhaps to create a feeling of indifference to the interests of their
masters.
   Inns, &c.-There are four licensed public-houses in the parish,
besides the toll-house, forming the boundary between the counties
of Perth and Angus.  They are amply sufficient for the accommo-
dation of the community; and no friend to the well-being and good
order of the neighbourhood, would wish to see their number in-
creased.
   Fuel.-The fuel principally consumed here is English coal,
brought from the harbour of Dundee, or when commissioned by
families, as it very frequently is, landed either at Kingoody, in this
parish, or at Powgavie, in the adjoining one of Inchture.  The
price varies according to its quality, and the expense of convey-
ance from 4s. to 5s. 9d. per boll of 6 cwt. or 42 stones.  Coal from
the south coast of Fife, averaging about 6s. a boll, is also used,
through not to the same extent, and there is a considerable demand
for fire-wood, which is procured from the prunings of trees, and


