
670			PERTHSHIRE.

nity, rather than that of  a quiet country parish.     For the male
part of the population, there is, therefore, no want of employment,
but the female portion, it  must be admitted, is not so fortunate,
To ameliorate their condition is an object well worthy the con-
sideration of the philanthropist.  At the time of writing the
former Account, females could not only largely contribute to
the support of their respecthve establishments, but it is an ascer-
tained fact, that in many instances, the whole rent, amounting to a
considerable sum, was the earnings of the wife and her handmaidens.
How altered, in this respect, the state of things!  Spinning, except
for family purposes, may be reckoned among the things that were.
The very fact that, of the 39 paupers supported by the kirk-session,
32 are old women, is sufficient to shew that the weaker sex, do what
tbey will, if depending upon their own efforts for subsistence, must,
anticipate old age with feelings of the most painful solicitude!
             "This is a sight for pity to peruse,
             Till she resemble faintly what she views,
             Till sympathy contract a kindred pain,
             Pierc'd with the woes 'these female feel in vain."
                                                          COWPER.

February    1839.


                        PARISH OF CAPUTH.

              PRESBYTBRY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING

                  THE REV.  ALEXANDER WILSON, MINISTER.


		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-IT appears from our session records that formerly the
named of this parish was variously spelt, Keapoch, or Kapoch,-
more commonly Capoch; but for the last half century invariably
Caputh. The original meaning of the term is dntirely lost in ob-
scurity, Keapoch in Gaelic signifies "a decayed wood," as I am
told; but how it apllies to this parish I cannot discover.
   Situation.-It is situated in that district of Perthshire which is
called the Stormontm and comprehend the greater part of the plain
of the Stormont, which is just a continuation of the extensive vale
of Strathmore, towards the foot of the Grampians.


