
46                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

since been gradually increased, until in 1838 there were 130 on
the foundation.
   In 1816, Alexander Simpson, Esq. of Colliehill, devised to the
Principal and Professors of Marischal College and the four Minis-
ters of Aberdeen in trust, the lands of Barrack, in the parish of
New Deer, and Crickie, in Old Deer, subject to the liferent of
certain of his own relatives, after whose death it became applicable
to the purpose of educating boys in Gordon's Hospital, the sons and
grandsons of decayed burgesses.  The buildings of the hospital
being, however, insufficient to accommodate more than eighty boys
the number then in the house; and a considerable surplus of re-
venue having accrued, the Governors of Gordon's Hospital, in an-
ticipation of the bequest of Mr Simpson, added two wings to the
hospital, connected with the centre building by a neat colonnade,
after the designs of Mr Smith, architect, at an expense of about
L-.14,000.  These alterations were completed in 1834, and fifty
additional boys were soon after admitted; and in 1838, Mr Simp-
son's trustees paid over to the governors L. 2000, in consideration
of their being entitled to have twenty-six boys accommodated in
the hospital in the same manner as the others, their maintenance
and education being defrayed out of Mr Simpson's trust-funds at
the annual average rate; and in May 1838 they nominated four
to be received, so that the whole number now in the house is 134.
   The age at which boys are admitted is from nine to twelve.  They
are clothed in a suit of blue cloth with flat bonnets.  The average
period of their remaining in the house is five years, it being a rule
that no boy shall remain after be is sixteen years of age.  On leaving
the hospital they are generally apprenticed to various trades and
professions in Aberdeen, and at the end of the first year of their
apprenticeship, they receive in name of apprentice-fee the sum of
L. 8, 6s. 8d., and on the expiry of their apprenticeship the further
sum of L. 5, provided they have conducted themselves to the sa-
tisfaction of their masters.  If a boy can satisfy the governors that
he  has favourable prospects by leaving the country, he is allowed
L.10 as an outfit, in full of all demands on the hospital.
   By a special clause in the charter of foundation, it is declared
that young  men educated in the hospital who marks (L. 216, 13s. 4d.),
quire or succeed to a fortune equal to 4000 marks (L. 216, 13s. 4d.),
shall be obliged to refund to the institution the whole expense of
their maintenance and education.  But although several indivi-
duals, who had received the benefit of this institution, have attain-


