
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities, etc.-Balgonie castle, one of the seats of the
Earl of Leven, is a fabric of great antiquity, and consi-

<FOOTNOTE>

feet thick, without any stone at all.  The proprietor wrought up a level along
the side of the river Leven, about half a mile in length, which lessened the lift
of the engine 5 fathoms.  In working up this mine, about 150 fathoms from the
place where be intended to erect his engine, he found the metals on edge perfect-
ly perpendicular; a little further, he found them dip 1 fathom in 3, and that to
the west, directly contrary to the dip of the coal, and there he found two seams
of coal. with 7 fathoms of stone between them; the first, 2 1/2 feet, and the other,
3 feet thick, dip 1 in 3.  About 50 fathoms farther, he found flat metal rising
to the west, the proper rise of the coal in that park of the field.  There ap-
pearances gave him reason to believe the main coal did not extend far to the
dip, but was either cut off by these edge metals, or would be found on the dip
separated by a stone into two seams, and suddenly thrown out to the surface in
the form of the two seams he had discovered in his mine, by a rise of 1 fathom
in 3, directly contrary to the ordinary crop of the coal.  In order to discover
this, as soon as the engine was erected, a level mine was pushed on to the
eastward:  The coal was found perfectly good till he approached within 50 fa-
thoms of the edge metals, where a stone made its appearance in the middle
of the coal, one inch thick, 6 fathoms farther, it inceased to 18 inches thick,
and continued to increased till it was found impracticable to the wrought, and 
appeared fairly to divide the seam of coal in two, corresponding in thickness to
the two edge seams he had discoverd in the said mine.  The coal continues flat,
but it can hardly be doudted, that if the level is driven 20 fathoms farther, it
will rise the opposite way, 1 fathom in 3*.  Since this is the case upon the E.
part of the field, it is not easy to account, why the same thing has not happened
on the west part of the same field, where the gravel dike intervenes, and cuts
off the coal in place of the edge metals: the probability is, that the edge
metals are also there, and that the coal will terminate and be thrown out to
the surface by them in the same way, though in this part the gravel dike seems
to be thrust in, between the flat and the edge metals; and is of great thick-
ness, as a trial was made at right angles, a hundred fathoms distant, and 17 fa-

*Since writing the above, an upset has been pushed forward, and the coal
actually found to rise, as supposed above, x fathom in 5; and it will, no doubt,
a little further on, rise 1 fathom in 3, and crop out at the surface; and the
stone will increase in thickness, till it is found 7 fathoms at the surface, and
the main coal is thrown out there, in the form of the two seams, above men-
tioned.


