
74                           SELKIRKSHIRE.

     As before the times of the Bostons, so after their days, the
people of Ettrick had not for any length of time any regularly
stated pastor.  One was translated to another parish, a second died
in early life, and a third soon acquired evil habits, and lived to an
advanced age, leaving a "bare subsistence," to a helper, who resign-
ed his charge always just as soon as he could find another open
door.  He has now been dead between twenty and thirty years, yet
the writer nf this article is the twelfth incumbent from the elder Bos-
ton, in the period of very little more than a century.  The people
of Ettrick, therefore, have had many than changes by no means favour-
able to spiritual or mental improvement; yet we can say that our
congregation, considering our population, is by no means incon-
siderable, and that our communicants have increased, and are in-
creasing in numbers every year.  When we first dispensed the sa-
crament in this place, eight years ago, the number of communi-
cants belonging to the parish might be about 118.  Last year
(August 26, 1832), they had advanced to the number of 147
     Bible Society.--A Bible and missionary society was instituted
here in 1819, "having for its object the dissemination of the scrip-
tures, without note or comment."  The present Lord Napier is
president of that society, and a great proportion of the heads of
families, both churchmen and dissenters, have enrolled themselves
as members.  There is an annual sermon preached in behalf of its
funds.  The average of the collection and subscriptions for the last
four years, is L. 11, 12s. 4d. and these have been generally equally
divided between the Edinburgh Bible and Missionary Societies.
     Education.--There is one parochial school. Mr John Beattie,
a teacher of this school, died about seven years ago, his father
and he together together having been schoolmasters in the parish for
the space of 101 years.  There are no other stated  schools in the
parish.  A woman may be seen sometimes giving lessons to a few
small children.  In the house of a shepherd may be found some-
times also, a boy or girl teaching the children of two or three famil-
lies united.  Our scattered population, indeed, is unfavourable to
the education of the young; yet we believe, there is not one above
six years old who has not been taught the first lessons of reading,
and been instructed in the principles of religion.  The present

<FOOTNOTE>occasions alro.  And my heart has long been on that occasion particularly concerned
for a blessing on their substance, with such a natural emotion as if they had been be-
gotten of my body.   Those within a mile of the church still had a greater weight on
solemn occasions."



