
56                        HADDINGTONSHIRE

very nearly completed her hundredth year, and two considerably
above 90 in the immediate neighbourhood.
    Hydrography.-Spring abound in many parts of the parish, and
the water is generally very cool, and of the best quality.  There
is one near the village called the Rude-well, coverd by a circular
stone building, surmounted by the farm of a cardinal's hat, and
there is a legend that the tenure of the Beil estate depends upon
the keeping on of this hat.
   Into a deep revine there issues from the base of a high hill a
most magnificant spring of the purest water.  About the year 1819,
William H. Nisbet, Esq. built a breast-work, on the east, where
two opposing hills begin to slant down into more level ground.
A most beautiful lake, about two miles in circumference, was here-
by formed. Trout were brought from Lochleven, at considerabel
trouble and expence. The experiment succeeded, and along with
tench and carp, they are now caught in abundance and great per-
fection.  As the hills surrounding the lake are undulating and finely
wooded, the scenery has been compared to parts of the Rhine. A
Mr Hamilton, cadet from the Belhaven family, and a Lord of
Session, took the title of Lord Pressmennan, from this place. So
attractive is the scenery in summer, that party excursions to sail
on the lake, dine under the shady tree, and drink from the living
spring, are frequent.
   Soils.-Clay, from the more stiff and tenacious to the loamy,
predominates; although there is also a considerable breadth of
light turnip soil. The latter generally abounds with small stones.
   Botany.-Mr Street, gardener and florist at Beil, has naturaliz-
ed or acclimatized the following exotics, which not only live but
flourish on the Beil terraces: Coronilla Valentina, C. glauca, Cactus
flagelliformia, C. opontia, C. strictus, Mimulus glutinasus, Coronilla
juncea, Phormium tenax, or New Zealand flax, Calla Ethiopica pro-
ducing ripe seeds in pots,Eucomis striata.*
   There is a cedar of Lebanon in the Beil grounds, one of the
largest in Britain. It was brought in a flower-pot from London,
by the anti-unionist Lord Belhaven, and planted about the begin-
ning of the last century; girth 14 feet, height about 60 feet,
expansion of branches from trunk 3o feet, drop from do. in cir-
cumference about 200 feet.

<FOOTNOTE>Mr. Street has not only boen successful in his attempts to naturalize exotics; but
is also wakll known to horticulture as prossessing very considerable science in his
profession.


