
                            CLEISH.                               43

generally cut for hay, and the land kept in pasture for a few years.
Summer fallow is little practised except in clay, or when land is
first cultivated; when turnips and potatoes form part of the rota-
tion, it is unnecessary. A considerable quantity of lime is used.
Draining, which is the greatest improvement that this country ad-
mits of, was never carried on with so much spirit as at present.
The drains are now much better planned and executed than for-
merly, and, in most places, plenty of stones can be got to fill them.
A great number of acres has been added to the arable land by the
main drain, which of late years has been carried along the north
side of the parish. This will be afterwards more particularly de-
scribed. There were originally three commons in the parish;
the greatest part of them has been improved long ago, and the
cultivation of the remaining part is still going on. The thirlage
of the two mills has been settled by arbitration. Some land has
been trenched, or, in place of the ordinary trenching, the surface
only has been turned over with the spade or plough, nine or ten
inches deep, and the under soil opened with the pick to the depth of
nine or ten inches more, and the stones, taken out. The produce of
some fields that have been drained and treated in this way, is Dow dou-
ble of what it formerly was. Some gentlemen have used ploughs
of a particular construction for opening the under soil. As these
ploughs are made to follow the common ploughs in the same fur-
row, no fewer than six horses are requisite; therefore, in many
cases, it would be more convenient to lay the drills and either pick
the furrows or open them with the under soil plough; thus one-
half of the ground would be improved, and the other half when
the drills were reversed. Wedge draining has been tried here,
and has succeeded completely in clay and moss, when properly per-
formed. Iron ploughs are generally used, and the carts and other
implements of husbandry are much improved. There are five or
six thrashing-mills in the parish. Two saw-mills were erected few
years ago, and are found to be of great advantage. The saws are
circular; one in each of the mills being two feet and a half in dia-
meter; they are calculated for sawing wood for roofing and floor-
ing, as well as for lath, rails, and stakes. Scotch fir, which, when
young, was considered of little value, answers well for lath. The
two meal-mills in the parish have been rebuilt, and the machinery
much improved. The kilns also have been rebuilt, and fitted up
so as to dry the corn sooner and better, as well as with less fuel.


