
                        ROTHESAY.                       101

circumference. There are some noble plane, chesnut, and ask
trees in the grounds at Kames Castle.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	The royal burgh of Rothesay is situated at the head of a bay
of the same name, on the north-east side of the Island of Bute,
and is the chief town of the county of Bute. It is governed by a
provost, two bailies, a dean of guild, treasurer, and  twelve coun-
cillors, and now unites with the county of Bute in sending a Mem-
ber to Parliament. Besides the burgh courts, the Sheriff and Jus-
tice of Peace Courts and County meetings are held here.
	Rothesay Castle, now a noble ruin, was probably one of those
erected by Magnus Barefoot, King of Norway in 1096, to secure
his conquest of the western islands of Scotland. A village gra-
dually arose around the walls, and under the protection of the
Castle. Bute being one of the ancient possessions of the house of
Stuart, the Castle of Rothesay continued to be a place of their
occasional residence, after they came to the throne. On 12th
January 1401, King Robert Ill. erected the town, which had
been previously made a burgh of barony, into a royal burgh, and
endowed it with a considerable landed territory. Its privilages
were confirmed and extended by King James VI., by charter dated
19th February 1585.
	The town of Rothesay necessarily shared the fortunes of its
castle in the various wars in which Scotland was engaged, and was
repeatedly taken and plundered by the Norwegians, by the Lords
of the Isles, by the English, and by the different parties during
the civil wars. The town, however, seems to have enjoyed, fre-
quent periods of prosperity, having been a mart, at which the
Highlanders and western islanders met with the Lowlanders to
exchange their commodities. Hence, arose, probably the opinion
which is still prevalent, that Bute is a kind of neutral ground,
neither highland nor lowland. About the year 1700, when
Campbelltown was erected  into a royal burgh, the family of
Argyle held out great inducement to people to settle there, and
many to the traders of Rothesay accepted of the tempting offers
made to them. Having thus lost, not only many of her traders,
but great part of her trade also, the town fell greatly into decay,
so that in the year 1760 nearly one-half of the houses had been
allowed to fall into ruins, and the population had distiguished to
about one-half of what it was formerly. It continued in this lin-
guishing state till 1765, when a custom-house was establishd here
for the accomodation of the Irish colonial trade; all colonies.


