
			DUNNOTTAR.                        227

position on the coast which the harbour occupies is so favourable,
the access to it is so easy,  and its internal accommodation so con-
venient for the purpose, that it is likely to become prominent as a
station in the herring-fishery.
	Manufactures.--Cotton and linen weaving is carried on pretty
extensively at Stonehaven, under the agents of several houses at
Aberdeen. A good many females find employment in this way,
and of the men so employed in the winter time, some become
fishermen in summer, particularly during the herring season. The
manufacture of coal gas was lately commenced at Stonehaven by
a joint-stock Company, with a capital of L. 2500. The works,
though on a limited scale, are very complete; and the gas produ-
ced is of the best quality, and is now used in lighting almost every
shop and dwelling-house in both old and new town. Some ma-
nufactures are carried on in the Fetteresso quarter of Stonehaven,
but these fall more properly to be noticed in the account of that
parish.
	Trade and Shipping.--The imports at Stonehaven consist
chiefly of lime and coals. Of the former, thd average annual im-
port during the last fourteen years is 18,000 bolls, and of the lat-
ter 13,000 bolls,--the range of quantities over that period being
from 11,000 to 26,000 bolls a-year of the one, and from 10,000
to 19,000 bolls a-year of the other. The other imports include
bone-dust, salt, slates and tiles, paving-stones, groceries, and other
shop goods. Of the articles exported, the principal is grain, the
quantity of which shipped annually during the period mentioned
has varied from 4800 to 14,000 quarters. Among the other ex-
ports are potatoes, whisky, cured-fisb, and occasionally timber
and live-stock. In the trade of the port, ten or eleven vessels,
owned by individuals in the town and neighbourbood, are usu-
ally employed; but vessels belonging to other places are engag-
ed in it. The average revenue of the harbour during the last
fourteen years was L. 512. In 1826, it was L. 604. In 1835, it
fell to L. 412, since which it has been again increasing; and in
1839, it amounted to L. 482. Formerly this harbour, though one
of the most easy approach in easterly gales, was interiorly so ill
defended from the sea, as to be shunned by vessels during the
winter months. In 1825, it was placed, by Act of Parliament,
under the management of a Board of Commissioners, who, raising
money on the security of the harbour dues, laid out L. 8000 in its im-
provement. The improvement consisted of the removal of a mass of


