
                              KILDONAN.                      143

        or relatives of each chieftain. This compact was concluded by
        mutual vows, accompanied with religious rites within the chapel,
        that, the meeting would take place in a solitary part of the country,
        where no interruption could occur, and the escort of each leader
        was fixed at twelve armed horsemen. The crowner bad been twice
        married, and had a numerous family of sons; but some, of them
        resided in Sutherland, and it was also agreed that he should form
        his party there, and proceed into Caithness with them by the
        Strathmore route, while the Keiths would move, on the appoint-
        ed day, towards the confines of Sutherland, and in the same di-
        rection ; so that the two parties would meet in a retired dis-
        trict, remote from any chance of being disturbed. The chiefs,
        each followed by twelve horses and their riders, came within sight
        of each other on the appointed route, and soon thereafter met at
        a burn called Alt-na-gawn, below the glut of Strathmore.  The
        crowner and the leader of the Keiths approached each other in full
        armour; but it was soon discovered by the Guns, that there were
        two riders on every horse in-the party of the Keiths, and consequent-
        ly the latter party had twenty-four men opposed to the twelve fol-
        lowers of the crowner.  This vile stratagem instantly revealed to
        the Guns that their destruction, by unfair means, was determined
        upon.  They scorned, notwithstanding the great odds against them,
        to retreat before their enemies the Keiths; and both parties dis-
        mounting, the huge double-banded sword, and other formidable
        weapons of the period used in close combat, were furiously and
        destructively wielded, amidst horrid imprecations, and remorseless
        vows of each clan's never-dying vengeance, which raised to mad-
        ness the rage of the combatants.
          The Guns fought most desperately, but could not withstand
        the great odds that opposed them; and after a long continu-
        ed struggle, the survivors on both sides were so much exhaust-
        ed, that the combat was mutually dropt,-the Keiths being
        so far the victors as to leave the field with their banner display-
        ed, and to be able to carry with them their slain companions;
        while in the ranks of the Guns, the crowner and seven of his party
        were killed, and the remaining five were all severely wounded.
        The Keiths proceeded to Dilred Castle, in Strathmore, then oc-
        cupied by Sutherland of Dilred, where they were hospitably en-
        tertained, The five surviving Guns, who were all sons of the
        crowner, also retired, but tarried at another streams since then call-
        ed Alt-Torquil, after  Torquil Gun, one of the survivors, who there
        dressed the wounds of his brothers. Towards evening, Henry-


