
344                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

gravel, of mixtures of clay and sand called till, and in some places
of clay.
   Boulders.--Boulders, i. e. large stones rounded by attrition in
water, are found, but not in great number. Most of them are of
rocks belonging to the trap formation, fragments probably of the
rocks of the adjacent Kilsyth hills, in which hills the Carron has
its source. There occur a few quartzose boulders from primitive
sehistose rocks, but these are much fewer in number than the boul-
ders of trap formation. Near Stenhouse, Carronhall, and Kinnaird,
the alluvial banks of sand lie upon the extensive alluvial deposit of
clay, of which the carse of Bothkennar and of Falkirk consists.
This deposit of clay is of considerable depth in some places, and
lies upon coal measures, the coal of which is worked in different
places. A few feet under the surface of the ground in the carse,
is found a stratum of shells of oyster, mussel, and other species,
similar to the species of shells found in the adjacent seas.
   At Stenhouse, Carronhall, and Kinnaird, which overlook the
carse, the aspect of the alluvial banks is towards the Frith of
Forth; and from the situation of these banks it may be conjectured,
that they were formerly the shore of the frith, at a time when the
flat surface of the carse was covered by the sea, and when the
haugh of the Carron was a bay, estuary, or tide-river.
  Sandstone and Coal-measures.--Under the whole of the alluvial
deposit is sandstone and the accompanying coal-measures; and in
these coal-measures, several valuable seams of coal are worked at
Carronhall and Kinnaird. The coal-measures also contain strata
of balls of clay ironstone, which are worked. These strata of
ironstone contain impressions of the trunks, and stalks of various
fossil plants of extinct species amongst which are found several of
the species described in the fossil flora of Brongniart, and in that of
Lindley and Hutton; amongst which, are plants analogous to the
tree-fern of the West Indies and to other tropical species, and which,
together with the other plants of which the remains form the coal
seams, grew, it would appear, at or near this point of the earth's.
surfate, at a remote geological period, before the globe had cooled
down to its present temperature, and when the temperature at this
place was as warm as it is now within the tropics.
  It was the abundance of coal and ironstone in the adjacent country
which, in 1766, induced Messrs Roebuck, Garbet, and Cadells,
the original proprietors of the Carron Company, to establish the
extensive iron-smelting works of that Company in this parish.


