
262                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

Afterwards, 1800, principally through the great exertions of Mr
Innes, then tacksman of the whole estate of Durris, a turnpike
road was made from Stonehaven to Banchory Ternan; and late-
ly, that from Stonehaven to the Dee, by Netherley, has been put
on the same footing. The first two of these have been laid out in
the most judicious manner, are kept in the best order, and have
been attended by the most beneficial effects. There are about
twenty miles of these roads hn the parish. On those under the com-
mutation Act of Parliament, great improvements, year after year,
have taken place in every district, and farther progress is in
view.
   Town, &c.--About the year 1759, the late Mr Barclay of Ury
purchased the property Arduthie.*  Soon after, be planned a
new town (often still called the Links of Arduthie) along the sea-
shore, forming a continuation of Stonehaven, in the parish of Dun-
nottar, in which the Sheriff and other courts of Kincardineshire are
held. It is built on a regular plan. The feus, each one-eighth
of an acre, are given off in perpetuity. At first, the duty was low,
but afterwards was raised to L.2 per annum. It made, for a con-
siderable period, rapid progress, the population having been in
1801, 770; in 1821, 1635; in 1831, 2064; in 1841, 2061.
There are in New Stonehaven many excellent houses, to which
walled gardens are attached; others, of an inferior description,
suited to various classes in society; and shops, where goods of
every description are always to be obtained         .
   There are, also, tradesment+ of almost every kind. The dwel-
ling-houses and shops are lighted by gas; and the supply of water
is abundant.
   There are, of course, villages at the fishing stations. That at
Cowie contains 174 inhabitants; at Stranathro, (including the
coast-guard establishment in it) 126; at Sketraw, 183. There are
45 persons in the Kirktown.
   Post-Office,&c.--Two mails from the south, and two from the
north, are received at Stonehaven every day. A stage-coach, to
and from Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen, passes also every

<FOOTNOTE>The purchases-money was L.1500.  For a long time past, the rental has amount-
ed to L. 1000  per annum;--one-half from feu-duties, the other from the landward
part;--a case scarcely paralleled, except in the neighbourbood of large and nume-
rously peopled towns.
	+ Stonehaven, though the head town of Kincardineshire, would appear to have had
no pubic baker in 1664. It is state in the session records, that, on the sacramen-
tal occasion in that year " there was given Jean Dickie 8s. for goeing to Montrose
for the bread."
					4



