
                              BALQUHIDDER.                          345

  abounded in ancient times; Edinchip, the hill in the shape of a shoe-
  maker's last; Lochearnhead, where there is a small country village
  with a good inn, having every requisite accommodation for travel-
  lers; Edinample, from the words, eadan, face, and teampuil, tem-
  ple, and importing that a place of worship had been on the face
  of the hill at a very remote period: here stands an ancient castle
  belonging to the family of Breadalbane; it is surrounded with lofty
  plane-trees; and there is a grand waterfall close to it, which at-
  tracts the attention of travellers : Glenogle, signifying the terrific
  glen, is a narrow pass leading from Lochearnhead to Glendo-
  chard in Breadalbane; it is surrounded on both sides of the road
  by stupendous hills full of rocks and scarnachs, the haunts of foxes
  and ravenous birds.
    Boundaries.-The parish is bounded on the south by the pa-
  rish of Callander; on the east by the parish of Comrie; and on the
  north and west by the parish of Killin.
    Topographical 4ppearances.-The country on both sides of the
  river and lakes is environed b a ridge of hills, some of which are
  of considerable height, and rise almost perpendicular from the
  strath.  A few of them may be mentioned
    Binean, signifying the mountain of birds, is nearly as high as
  Benmore, which is immediately adjoining: Stobchon, the hill of
  the dogs: Beinchroin, the mountain where the deer used to roar:
  Craigruigh Hill, the King's rock, where, it is said, King Robert
  Bruce concealed himself after he had lost the battle of Dalrey, and
  before that of Bannockburn was fought; on the south side of this
  stupendous hill are numerous rocks, cavities, and scarnachs; and to
  a traveller below, it appears indeed wild and romantic: Sithean a
  chath, an eminence at the western extremity of the parish: Fioghan
  situated on the north of the Kirkton Glen, and halfway between
  Balquhidder and Glendochard.  Above the manse is a stupen-
  dous rock, much admired by all travellers, and seen at a great dis-
  tance.  It is the resort of hawks, wild pigeons, and martins.
    About forty or fifty years ago the face of the hills was gene-
  rally covered with heather, which has now almost disappeared.
    Hydrography.-There are a vast number of springs, chiefly pe-
  rennial, in the parish.  The lakes are, Loch-voil, Loch-doine, half
  of Lochlubnaig, and a part of Lochearn.  Loch-voil or phuil sig-
  nifies the muddy lake: Loch doine, the deep water: and Loch-lub-
  naig, the winding lake.  The only river of note in the place is Bal-
  vag, signifying the smooth running water.  It takes its rise at Loch-
                        

