
                       ARDNAMURCHAN.                          123

   The circumstance of this lake almost connecting the arm
of the sea into which the Caledonian Canal opens to the West
with the western ocean, by a short and direct line, (whereby the
long, and nearly circular route through the Linne Hiloch, the Sound
of Mull, and round the formidable point of Ardnamuchan, would
be saved,) attracted the notice of Mr Telford, and is noticed in his
report regarding the Caledonian Canal.  The opening of this line of
communication on the same scale would evidently greatly increase
the benefit of that canal.  Even the deepening of the river Shiel,
and a canal, however unexpensive, connecting the lake with the
sea on the east, would prove, not only locally, but generally use-
ful.  Open boats from the Western Isles are in the practice of
entering the lake by the river, and taking away ladings of the tim-
ber on its banks.  Fishermen from the east have pulled their boats
overland from Lochshiel into the lake, and, finding their way on its
waters into the western sea, have taken a full cargo of fish before
companions, who took the more circuitous route, arrived at the
fishing-station.  The scenery of this lake at its west end is, for
several miles, rather sombre, consisting chiefly of brown low bills,
flats of brown moss, through which the lake winds itself.  The
ever-green island of St Finnan, about six miles eastward, ap-
pears an oasis in the desert.  Beyond this, the lake plunges
into the midst of high mountains, whose sides, generally nearly
precipitous, are streaked with the foam of falling streams, or
seamed with rugged ravines.  Woods of oak, ash,, and birch,
thrive vigorously among the cliffs and promontories.  The hills
are occasionally green, rounded, and swelling, for many miles,
but their prevailing character is stern and grand; the visitor
feels a sense of loneliness, seldom broken by the sight of a human
habitation, or enlivened by any sound but the dash of waterfalls
or the scream of some bird of prey.
   Loch Morir extegids from west to east.  Its wide expanse of
water lies betwixt South Morir, in the parish of Ardnamurchan, and
North Morir, in that of Glenelg, for a length exceeding twenty
miles, and with a breadth varying, from one to probably three
miles.  Its depth is unknown, but is probably considerable. Its
elevation is considerably above that of Lochshiel; its colour much
the same.  Like Lochshiel, it fills the lower part of an extensive
valley, bounded by high and steep hills, but without: any great
flats on its shores.  Some arable grounds on the gentler slopes
are seen at a distance, and woods thriving vigorously at frequent


