
86                   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

inconsiderable space. Understanding by a cataract a perpendi-
cular fall of water, without any obstruction whatever, I would say
that no salmon can by swimming overcome one exceeding ten
feet, or by leaping, one exceeding six. Perhaps even these num-
bers are too high. I have sat for hours, by a fall on the Dee,
observing their motions; and for one that masters the current
by a leap, hundreds effect their purpose by swimming, as can
easily be seen, while the sun shines on the column about noon,
during a very bright day. The fall is not more than four feet in
height. The most extraordinary leaps are made not by salmon,
but by herlings, some of which I have seen spinning to a height
of ten feet perpendicular, as near as I could judge.
   We have loach and stickle-back, but no minnows.
   The natural history of the eel is, in some respects, very curious,
and may be regarded as the converse of that of the salmon.
Both are migratory; but, while the salmon is oviparous, and
breeds in rivers, the eel is viviparous, and produces in the sea.
Eels begin to evacuate the fresh water in October, and, by, the
middle of winter, not one is to be found, even in the minutest
lochs or dams at the greatest distance from the sea. Near the
southern summit of the ridge of our hills, there is a small pond
for supplying a thrashing-mill. Eels abound in it during summer,
but, at the commencement of winter, they descend in such num-
bers, that, as the country people observe, one might fill a basket
with them in a few minutes, by holding it under one of the wa-
terfalls. The pond is within half a mile of the Dee, and the
height above the channel of the river, 400 feet. The descent of
the water, consequently, is very abrupt, and the singular thing is,
how the supply of eels is kept up, since they have annually to
overcome so many formidable obstacles, as the communication
between the river and the pond presents. In the beginning of
May, the young eels begin to appear, and, by the end of that
month, thousands, myriads, millions, are terms not more than
adequate to describe the appearance of these fish. Their heads
are all directed up the stream. The instinct which prompts them
to ascend appears in a striking manner at the narrow gorge of a
pool, where the current is too powerful to admit of their passing
upwards. There they are to be seen struggling for days, and
even for weeks, forcing their way over the damp moss that adheres
to the edges of the rocks, and perishing in such vast numbers
among the crevices from whence the water disappears in dry sea-

                                  3


