
78                      WIGTONSHIRE.

         The writer regrets he cannot ascertain exactly the proportions
of arable and waste land in the parish.
	There is about as much grain raised in this parish asit, suffi-
cient for its inhabitants; and the principal produce of the soil is
sheep and black-cattle.
	Rent.--The present rental of the parish is L. 3200 Sterling, per
annum.
	There are three shops and three public-houses, all situated in
the village of New Luce, which contains about 180 inhabitants
some of whom are labourers, and some tradesmen, employed by
the country people in the neighbourhood.
	There are no manufactories in this quarter.
	The road money is upwards of L. 30 yearly. Several roads
have been made since the last Account, and a considerable quanti-
ty of land has been fenced by stone dikes and manured with lime.
	Farm-Houses, Leases, &c.--Suitable houses have been built
upon most of the farms during these last twenty-five years. Leases
are generally granted for the space of nineteen years; and although
the present low price of wool and of all other farm produce is se-
verely felt, yet the farmers are, upon the whole, comfortably situ-
ated.
                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The nearest post-office is Glenluce, which is five miles distant,
and the nearest market-town is Stranraer, above nine miles distant.
	Means of Communication.--There is a new line of road from
Glenluce to the; toll-bar of Curloch in Ballantrae parish, which
passes through the village of New Luce; and also a line of road
from the said village, which passes tbrough the farm of Miltonise
to the village of Barhill, in Colmonell parish. There is a bridge
upon the Cross water of Luce, about four miles from this village.
Both these lines of road will be of great use in opening up this
dull country.
	Ecclesiastical State.--There is plenty of church accommodation
here, the church being seated for 400 people; and, by putting up
galleries, it could be easily made to contain 200 more As the in-
habitants of six or eight farms in the parish of Inch are more
than six miles from their own church, and near to New Luce, they
generall attend sermon in the latter Place. The church was
builtl about eighteen years ago.
	The stipend is L. 150 Sterling per annum, (with L. 8, 6s. 8d.
for communion elements,)--of which sum the beritors pay L. 69,



