
	               KILRENNY.                              979

	found on the farm of Blacklaws, belonging to Mrs Drinkwater
	Bethune.
	  Fisheries.-The fishery in Cellardyke is carried on to a very
	great extent. The fishermen are active, hardy, and enterprising,
	and prosecute their lawful employment oftentimes under circuni-
	stances of great danger. There are about 100 large boats, vary-
	ing in tonnage from 13 to 18 tons, emploved during the summer
	season in the herring fishery, each of these being manned with three
	or four regular fishermen and one or two balfdealsmed, as they
	are called, who have no nets, but merely assist in rowing, and haul-
	ing the nets; or if they htve not the full complement of men, two
	or three strong boys are sometimes taken. It was the usual prac-
	tice for the whole of the fishermen to go to Peterhead and Wick
	to prosecute the fishing, without a single boat being left to try if
	herring could be got in the Frith of Forth;  but in 1837 or 1838
	some of the fishermen remained at home, and were very success-
	ful; and since that period a great number of boats have been em-
	ployed at home with various success, and during some seasons,
	have been more successful than those which went to the north.
	At times the boats were brought into the harbour with from forty
	to eighty crans; but when the herrings are so abundant, the fish-
	ery continues only fcr a few days. When the fishermen get 200
	crans, they account such a fair fishing, but many do not attain to
	that number. During a successful fishing season lately, one or
	two boats got about 400 crans or barrels, and it is believed that
	one caught the extraordinary number of 500 crans. Their agree-
	ment with the curers is generally from 9s. to 11s. per cran, with a
	certain allowance of whisky. It is not, however, all gain that is made
	by the fishing, as it is attended with a very considerable expense.
	The boats, when thoroughly fitted for goino, to sea at first, cost
	about L. 100, and require a considerable sum to keep them in re.	
	pair; while the net,  when ready for use, cost about L. 5 each, and
	the number taken by each boat varies from fourteen to twenty.
	The herring fishing is prosecuted for a short time in winter during the
	months of January and February, and in autumn during the months
	of August and September. The other months are occupied by the
	fishermen in prosecuting the white fishing,  when 28 or 60 boats
	go regularly to sea every morning if the weather perinits and pro-
	ceed oftentimes to the distance of 40 or 50 miles in search of 'fish.
	The boats in these cases are manned with eight men each, and while
	each man furnishes a certain portion of line, with the necessary hooks

