
     Statistical Account

fast progress toward it.  From this I must except Mr. Mac-
kenzie of Allangrange, who has brought his mains and the
pleasure-ground of his place, to as high, if not higher perfection
than any man I know in this or the neighbouring countries;
he has, for several years back, paid the closest attention to the
improvement of his place; and now, while the traveller is de-
lighted at seeing those improvements, he himself tastes the
profits, and enjoys the comforts of them.  This gentleman
has, within my knowledge, recovered from 70 to 80 acres
from a perfect morass, which is now completely drained, fen-
ced, and yielding strong crops of hay and corn, and has there-
by not only beautified his place, but considerably added to his
rent-roll:  for these lands, which only paid his father 3 L. 6 s. 8 d.
he could now set at from 15 to 20 shillings the acre; and he
still continues to go on improving other parts of his estate
with great assiduity and attention in the farming, shepherd,
and planting way.  At the place of Allangrange are to be
seen several beech trees and poplars of a very large size, as
also yew trees of an uncommon magnitude, and two silver firs
that greatly surpass in height and circumference any of the
same kind in this country.  The mode of farming is various,
according as the tenants choose; only those upon the estate of
Allangrange are restricted, I am told, to a certain rotation;
but I do not see that they hold by it, or if they do, I do not
find that their circumstances are bettered by it.  There are
118 ploughs in this parish, some of oxen, some of horses, and
some a mixture of both; none but the gentlemen use 2 horse-
ploughs.  There is not a farmer in this parish, independent
of heritors, who rents 70 acres, except Mr. Munro, factor to
Kilcoy; he is the only one who has adopted the new mode
and plan of farming, and manages his farm to great advan-
tage.  Lands in general let at from 12 s. 6 d. to 20 s. the
acre; and on one estate, I am told, they let higher.  The


