
540            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

about 22,146,200 imperial gallons per annum. In the glebe at
Eastwood, there is also a spring which discharges about 11 impe-
rial pints per minute. There is a remarkably strong spring in a
bank, a little west from Barr Castle, Lochwinnoch. When first
hit upon, in some mining operations, it sprung like a vein when
touched by a lancet, and rose several feet into the air. It is now
subjected to the control of a water-pump. There is a saline spring
at Candren, near Linwood village, on the right banks of the Cart,
of a saline nature, which Dr Lyall endeavoured to write into re-
pute. At present, however, it is held in small estimation. There
is a spring strongly impregnated with the carbonate and sulphate
of lime, on the banks of the Locher in Kilbarchan, which yields
beautiful petrifactions, or incrustations of vegetables with lime.
The two mineral springs in Eaglesham, tbe one at Menzie Hill,
the other at Bonninton, have long been famous, but in the opinions
of the best judges much overrated. There are numerous cas-
cades among the hills, but none of them deserving particular no-
tice. The fall of the White Cart, above Seedhill Bridge, is too
urban to be picturesque.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--This is a large subject in such a
county as Renfrewsbire, but it is one of great moment. Having
lately drawn up the account of the geology of Lanarkshire for the
Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland, and having also
paid some attention to the geology of Dumbartonshire and Stir-
lingsbire, we may take the experience acquired in these analogous,
and yet in some respects very different and diversified fields of re-
search as a key to the geology of the county of Renfrew.
That we may be enabled to throw as much light as possible on
this very dark and intricate branch of inquiry, we will try it first
on the large scale, and in connection with the geology of the
neighbouring districts, and then we shall be prepared to master
more effectually its details. The relative position of the county
of Renfrew, in the geological map of Scotland, is the north-west
corner of the great coal-field of Scotland, which runs from north-
east to south-west from the  Frith of Forth to the Frith of Clyde.
The trap or whin connected with it runs through Lanarkshire,
and in a thin line along by Stirling to St Abb's Head.
It is needless, therefore, to consider Renfrewshire as an isolated
field. It is a part of a great whole, and is united to that whole by
many links and connections, seen and unseen. Dr Fleming, in a
paper on the "Mineralogy of the Redhead" in Angusshire, in the
                                 4


