
496                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	The present church, a handsome and elegant building, was
erected in 1822, at an expense of L. 3000, and may contain 1000
sitters. It is very centrical, and stands on the east side of the Esk,
near the village, which is on the west side. The manse was re-
built in 1800, and since that time has undergone some substantial
repairs, along with the office-houses. The glebe consists of 20
acres English of good arable land, including garden and office-
houses. The stipend, according to last augmentation, dated 20th
November 1822, is 16 chalders, half meal, half barley, payable
according to the highest fiars of the county,--with L. 1O for com-
munion elements. There are 516 families attending the Esta-
blished church, and 68 families belonging to the Secession. There
is neither an Episcopalian family nor a Catholic one in the parish.
The average number of cominunicants is 805. Collections are
occasionally made for the General Assembly's Highland Schools
and Indian Mission; and there is a yearly subscription of one
guinea, to the Dumfries Royal Infirmary.
	Education.--The number of schools in this parish, exclusive
of Sabbath schools, is 5. The parish schoolmaster's salary is
L. 31, 6s. 7d., with the legal accommodations. The teachers of
the auxiliary, or as they are called, side schools, are allowed as
salary the sum of L. 5 each. These schools are placed at Glen-
zier, Harelaw Hill, Hag, and Tail. The probable amount of fees
actually paid to the principal schoolmaster may amount to L. 30,
allowing 25 per cent. for irrecoverable debts,--with the additional
emoluments arising from the offices of session-clerk and collector
of the poors' rates. The branches taught in the public school
are English, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, French, Greek,
and Latin. The charges per quarter for these branches are,
English reading, 2s; English and writing, 2s. 6d.; arithme-
tic English grammar, and writing,3s 6d; Greek and Latin, 5s.
mathematics, 10s 6d.;French, 7s. 6d; and book-keepind (a
complete system) L.1, 1s. There is not a single individual be-
twixt six and fifteen years of age unable to read. All the people
appear very much alive to the benefits of education; hence they
would sooner deprive themselves of many of the necessaries of life
than their children should be unable to read and write. From
the numbers of schools in this parish, and no part of it being so far
distant from some of them as to prevent attendance, no additional
schools are required. There is not a coal-miner's child above six


