
272                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

than half of the money required for the support of the poor is at
present derived. All the heritors have now ceased to demand
and part of the assessment from their tenants; but it will be diffi-
cult to bring them to give their collections as formerly. A con-
siderable part of the L. 450 has lately been recovered, and an ad-
ditional bequest of L. 150 been received for the poor; and were
the people to return to their former habit of giving collections, the
assessment might be soon discontinued; which would be very de-
sirable, as assessments no doubt serve to overcome the disinclina-
tion of the poor to receive parochial relief.
   Fairs.--There are several fairs held in the course of the year
both in Kippen and Buchlyvie; but, excepting two or three of them,
they are poorly attended. The large market, chiefly for black-cattle,
which was formerly held at Balgair, in the parish of Balfron, is
now held in the moor of Kippen, about three miles from the vil-
lage, in the month of June; and two other considerable markets
for a similar purpose are held in the same place, the one in March,
and the other in May.
   Inns.--There are no less than 11 inns or public-houses in the
parish.  They have, no doubt, to a certain extent, a demoralizing
influence, and it would be desirable that their number should be
diminished.
   Fuel.--The fuel used in the parish is coal, driven from Bannock-
burn, a distance of twelve or thirteen miles; and peat procured
from the neighbouring mosses. The peat, in general, is of excel-
lent quality, and a considerable quantity of it is used for fuel; but
coal is perhaps in fully more general use.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

  This parish has been much improved since the publication of the
last Statistical Account, in respect of the extent of plantations, and
the progress of draining, and the superior system of husbandry
which is now pursued. Thrashing-machines are now in general
use; and reaping-machine has lately been introduced into the
parish, which seems to give satisfaction; but it is specially suit-
ed to the carse grounds, which are level, and free from stones.
The distance from coal and lime is a great inconvenience connect-
ed with this parish. Some communication by means of a canal or
railroad along the plain, would be a great improvement to this dis-
trict of country, and would be highly conducive to the comfort of
its inhabitants.

    Drawn up March 1839. Revised May 1841.


