
16		   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

in the Pentland Hills, Major M'Cullloch of Barholm, John Gor-
don of Knockbrex, and Robert Gordon, his brother, were se-
tenced to be executed at Edinburgh, and their heads sent to Kid-
cudbright, to be exposed on the principal gate of the town. The
sentence was put into execution. In 1684, two Covenanters,
William Hunter and Robert Smith, who had been apprehended at
Auchencloy, on the Dee, were brought to the town, where a just
being called, and the empty forms of a trial gone through, the
were sentenbed to be first hanged and then beheaded: this sen
tence was literally carried into effect. They were buried in Kirk-
cudbright churchyard, and a stone still points out the place of en
terment. John Hallam, another Covenanter, was also tried and ex-
ecuted in Kirkcudbright: his remains rest in the same churchyarn
	In 1685, Sir Robert Grierson of Lag surprised John Bell
Whiteside and some other on the hill of Kirkconnel, in the pa-
rish of Tongland, and barbarously ordered them to be instant
put to death: he would not allow their bodies to be buried.
Bell was the only son of the heiress of Whiteside, who, after the
death of his father, had married Viscount Kenmure. This no-
bleman met Lag in company with Graham of Claverhouse on the
street of Kirkcudbright. Kenmure accused Lag of cruelty, when
he retorted in highly offensive language, which so provoked the
Viscount, that he drew his sword and would have run it through
the body of the persecutor, had not Claverhouse interfered and
saved his life. The encounter happened near the door of an inn
at the north end of the town.
	William's fleet, on its passage to Ireland, continued for some
time wind-bound in the Bay of Kirkcudbright. He erected a
battery on the eastern shore, some traces of which still remain.
	In 1698, a woman named Elspeth M'Ewans was brought to trial
for witchcraft, condemned and burned to death near the town.
	On the 12th November 1706, the magistrates, councillors, and
other inhabitants of the burgh petitioned Parliament againts the
Union. A riot afterwards took place.
	Previous to the Rebellion of 1715, Kirkcudbright seems to
have been fixed upon as the place where the Pretender was to
land. So enthusiastic did the inhabitants become in the royal
cause, that they sent a company of foot under the command of
their late provost, to assist in the defence of Dumfries against the
rebels, who intended vigorously to attack it.
	On the 1st of June 1750, Thomas Miller of Glenlee, Esq.,


