
                ON THE COUINTY OF LANARK.                   957

the female line, by Lord Douglas of Douglas.  Of this family the
Douglases of Rosehall, and Douglas Park, in this county, are bran-
ches.  The Lockharts of Lee, of which the present representative
is Sir Norman Macdonald Lockhart, Bart. with their branches, the
Lockharts of Castlehill and, Milton Lockhart, Cleghorn, &c.
The late noble family of Hyndford, now represented by Sir Wind-
ham Carmichael Anstruther; of this family the Carmichaels of
East End form a branch.  The Baillies of Lamington, represented
by Mr Cochrane Baillie, son of Sir Thomas Cochrane of Mur-
dieston; the Rosses of Bonnington, represented by Sir Charles Ross;
the Colebrookes of Crawford by Sir Edward Colebrooke.  The
Stewarts of Coltness became extinct in the person of the late Ge-
neral Sir James Stewart.  The Stewarts of Allanton are now re-
presented by Sir Henry James, son of the late Sir Reginald Mac-
donald Seton Stewart of Allanton, &c. and maternal grandson of
Sir Henry Stewartof Allanton.  The Veres of Stonebyres, and of
Blackwood, &c.
   Family Mansions.--Among the most remarkable family man-
sions are, Hamilton Palace, the truly princely residence of the Duke
of Hamilton; Douglas and Bothwell Castles, the seats of Lord Dou-
glas; the former having been commenced in the time of the Duke
of Douglas, after a magnificent plan by the celebrated Adam, but
still unfinished ; the latter, a plain, but large and commodious build-
ing, forming a remarkable contrast to the ruin of the old castle,
one of the noblest relics of baronial grandeur to be seen in the
kingdom ; Carstairs House, the splendid residence of Henry
Monteath, Esq. ; Bonnington House, the seat of Sir Charles Ross,
and Corehouse, the romantic mansion of Lord Corehouse, on the
opposite sides of the Clyde, near the falls of Bonnington and Cora
Linn; Stonebyres House, a fine old mansion, on the west of the
Clyde, near the Stonebyres Fall; Lee House, the magnificent
mansion of Sir Norman Macdonald Lockhart ; Mauldslie Castle,
an elegant turreted structure on the Clyde, built, after a design
of Adam, by Thomas Earl of Hyndford, now the property of his
grandnephew, Mr Nesbit of Carfin ; Milton Lockhart, a splendid
specimen of the manorial style, after the plan of Burn, set down
by the present proprietor in a most beautiful situation on the Clyde;
Dalziel House, the seat of Hamilton of Dalziel ; Cambusnethan
Priory, a splendid Gothic structure, after a design of Mr Gillespie
Graham, in one of the finest situations on the Clyde, the seat of
Mr Lockhart of Castlehill; Wishaw House, the seat of Lord


