
			TORRES.                           177

   vants, when unfit to support themselves as in their youthful days,
   seek a residence in the town, there being few places in the country
   parts where they can be accommodated.  This has been long, felt
   as a great evil, and will continue to operate until the proprietors
   of small cheap houses in the town are in some way obliged to feel
   that they are increasing their own burdens, by encouraging poor
   decayed persons to come to occupy their miserable abodes.
   great proportion of the poor are from other parishes ; many from
   the Highland districts.
	Prison.-The old jail having been pulled down about four
   years ago to make way for the erection of the present townhouse,
   there is no regular prison at present in the burgh.     The only
   place of that kind is a building in the outskirts of the town, used
   temporarily as a place of confinement.   It is understood that the
   General Prison Board have resolved that there shall be no jail
   in the town for civil debtors or criminals incarcerated for any
   lengthened period, and that these shall   be sent to the county
   jail in Elgin. They have determined, however, to buiId a lock-
   up house, containing, a few cells, for the temporary imprisonment
   of offenders.
   	Inns, &c.-The number of houses licensed for the sale of ale
   and spirits in the town and parish is very great; and there can be no
   doubt that it might be much reduced with great advantage to the
   morals and habits of the people.
	Fuel.-The principal fuel  used is coal, chiefly brought from
   Newcastle, and conveyed in carts from the neighbouring sea-port
   of Findhorn; including the land-carriage,  it may be purchased
   for from 2s. 4d. to 2s. 6d. per barrel.  Peats and turf are also
   brought weekly to the town in small carts, by the peasants from
   the adjoining hilly parishes, but they are not much used, and are
   found equally expensive as coal.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   	This parish has fully kept pace with other districts of the coun-
   try in the general improvements which have taken place, during
   the last fifty years.  A very superior system of agriculture is now,
   generally adopted to what formerly existed.  Much more atten-
   tion is now paid to cleaning and draining land, and a greater regu-
   larity is observed in the rotation of crops. Improved breeds of
   horses and cattle have been introduced into the parish, and the
   farmers are more characterized and stimulated by a demire of im-
   provement, and evince a greater readiness than their predecessors
   ELGIN.                                         M


