
                           ROGART.                                 55

patch of green pasture, rocks, and spots covered with stinted heather,
extend its surface to about twenty-five acres. Occupied alone, its
value is not much,-servants, horses, and farming implements suf-.
ficient for the culture of a small farm being required for it. But if
held along with an extent of land which would enable him to cul-
tivate it conveniently, the occupant might find the arable part of
it worth 15s. per acre, and the pasture of corresponding value.
   The church is the only place of worship in the parish. There
is a catechist supported by an allowance from the inhabitants, to
which the minister contributes : he labours constantly among them.
The average number of communicants is 90.
  Education.-There are three schools at present in operation in
the parish,-the parochial school, a school supported by the General
Assembly, and a Gaelic school, supported by the Gaelic School
Society. In the parochial school, English reading, writing, arith-
metic, book-keeping, mensuration, and land-surveying, are taught.
In the General Assembly's school, English reading, Gaelic read-
ing, writing, arithmetic, and sometimes the rudiments of Latin,
are taught. In the Gaelic school, the reading of the Gaelic only
is taught.
    The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d.
The average amount of school fees received by him is L. 16.   The
salary of the General Assembly schoolmaster is L. 20. The ave-
rage amount of school fees received by him is L. 2, 10s.
   The teacher of the Gaelic school is not allowed to take fees, by
the regulations of the society. He is riot stationary in any place.
His salary is L. 25. To these teachers the requisite accommo-
dations are given. Fees are exigible from'those who can pay
them in the General Assembly's school, at the same rate as in
the parochial; but the greater part of the scholars are not in cir-
cumstances to afford them. In the parochial school, the fees per
quarter are, for English reading, 2s.; English reading and writ-
ing, 2s.; Dnglish reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3s.; book-
keeping, 10s.; mensuration and land-surveying, 10s. Many of
the inhabitants cannot read or write: Of these, the number of all
ages above ' six years, given in the Report to the General Assem-.
bly's Committee in 1832, was 842; and the number betwixt six
and twenty years, 290.
   There is a district of the parish, Barrschol and Craiggies, con-
taining a population of about 200, which is four miles distant from


