
                           ECKFORD.                          227

ed zeal in the cause of religious truth, they experienced all the
countenance and protection which his circumstances could afford.
This excellent person, as is well known, died while on his way, as a
prisoner, to Edinburgh, in consequence of being struck with a
carabine by Thomas George, Queensferry; and on his person was
found a rude unsubscribed draught of a covenant, which is common-
ly known by the name of the Queensferry paper./f*
  Stone coffins have been frequently found in this parish.  One was
discovered in a field called the Priest's Crown on the farm of Eck-
ford Eastmains, in 1831, containing a few decayed bones in one cor-
ner, and a small jar with some black dust in it in the other. The
jar was supposed to have been a Roman one, but it was unfortu-
nately destroyed.  On the farm of Moss-tower, a medal of the Em-
press Faustina was found in the heart of a peat, with the inscription
quite distinct.  It was presented by the late tenant to a member of
the noble family of Douglas.  A little to the west of Caverton-hill-
head cottages, are the remains of a tumulus of considerable extent,
which is now nearly on a level with the contiguous field, and which
is said to have been an ancient burying ground.  No bones have as
yet been discovered in it, but it has not hitherto been sufficiently
examined; it is called the black dike.  At Caverton/f+  there is an
old grave-yard, now scarcely ever used.  Near to it stood a chapel,
of which there are now no remains.  It was founded by Walter Ker
of Cessford, and confirmed by charter under the grand Seal in the
year 1500.  Close to this was a well which used to be called the
Priest's well, but by this name it has almost ceased to be known.

<FOOTNOTE>Near the south-west corner of the field, to the west of the manse, is a bog, which
has of late been drained, and with which is connected a curious tradition.  It is aver-
red, that on this spot a Smith's house, with his smithy and other appurtenances, once
stood, and that the members of his family were of a very disorderly description of cha-
racter.  On the morning of a Sabbath, while the people from the vicinity were Pas-
sing on their way to church, the whole place exhibited a scene of tumult and confu-
sion ; but on their return from it a few hours after, every vestige of a human habita-
tion had disappeared, and nothing was to be seen but the bog, with which the spot
was supposed to have been cursed. That this bog would never be drained was long
believed in the district, and circumstances for a time seemed to justify the opinion.
Several attempts were made for this purpose ; but all proved for a time to be utterly
ineffectual.  On one of these occasions, however, a smith's anvil was found buried in
the marsh, and this was in considered as at once confirmatory of the truth of the tradi-
tion.  The anvil was in tolerable preservation, and was intended to have been given
to the late Sir Walter Scott, to whom an account of the tradition had been communi-
cated. The hill, at the bottom of which the bog was situated, is called the Smithy-hill.
The Barony of Caverton anciently belonged to Lord Soulis, who forfeited his
property, in consequence of his being engaged in a conspiracy against Robert the
Bruce, towards the beginning of the fourteenth century.    The life of this noble-
man was spared, although he was imprisoned in Dumbarton  Castle till his death.
According to tradition, however, he was boiled alive, on the strength of a hasty ex-
pression of the King, in a cauldron, at a place called the Ninestane rig, in the vicini-
ty of Hermitage water.


