
396     	        	FORFARSHIRE.

King Robert Bruce with the barony of Kinnell, for gallant con-
duct in the battle of Bannockburn, and to have been thence called
Knight of Kinnell, during his uncle's lifetime.
   In 1407, Hugh Fraser of Lovat and Kinnell granted to his
cousin, Peter de Striveline, a charter of the lands of Easter Braky,
in the barony of Kinnell. The Strivelines have had various suc-
cessors;--in the seventeenth century, Sir James Ogilvy of New-
grange, and his son, Sir Francis; in the eighteenth, Messrs Piper,
Cooper, Gavin, great grandfather of the Marquis of Breadalbane,
and Bahrd of Newbyth; and in 1810, Messrs Alison and Laing,
by whom the estate was divided into two equal parts,--East Braky
and Rinmure.
   In 1642, Thomas Fraser, a descendant of Thomas, the third
Lord Lovat, was proprietor of West Braky; and soon afterwards,
Patrick Gray, and his son of the same name, Catholics, whom
neither Presbytery nor Episcopacy could constrain to attend the
Protestant worship. After these came Douglas of Brigford, and
then three generations of Carnegies, who were descended from
the house of Northesk; and from them it passed by purchase,
about 1740, to the late Earl of Panmure, who entailed, it along
with his other estates, and transmitted it to his grandnephew, the
present proprietor.
   In 1659, the lands of Muirmills, along with the keepership of
Monthrewmont Moor, belonged to Archibald Wood of Hilton,
and soon afterwards merged in the estate of Bolshan,
   In the castle of West Braky there exist a memorial of the Fra-
sers,--a coat-of arms with the date 1581. The blazon of the
arms is azure, three cinquefoils argent,--the cognizance of Fraser.
Impaled with quarterly, first and fourth, gules three crescents of
the second,--the arms of Pierrepont; second and third, three mul-
lets of the second,--the arms of Murray. There is no crest.
Above the shield are the letters T. F.; and over the letters is the
motto," Soli Deo confido."
   The foundation of the castle of Whitehills, which stood on the
south side of the Lunan, and considerably higher up than the
farm-steading of Kinnell's Mill, was dug up by the tenant, whose
lease, after an occupancy of forty-three years, terminated in 1811.
But it was ruin in the seventeenth century, and furnished the
materials for building what was called the Stone house, in the
Kirktown of Kinnell, where a chamberlain or baronial officer re-
			   3


