
78                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


ply of water for the shawl and blanket mills of these thriving vil-
lages.
  The Ochills have been much admired for the lights and sha-
dows that appear on their surface. This is particularly noticed
by those who live on the south side of the Forth. And there
can be no doubt, it arises from the particular slope of the hills,
which is nearly an angle of 45, so that every cloud which passes
over the sun has its shadow reflected on the green surface of the
Ochills. If the inclination of the hills were more perpendicular,
the shadows would not be seen by those who live on the opposite
side of the Forth, and if the inclination were more horizontal, they
would fall unobserved by them on the ground.
   The greater part of the parish of Dollar consists of a valley or low
grounds between the foot of the Ochills and a gently sloping emi-
nence on the south of the Devon. The breadth of the valley may
be about one mile or less, and it is nearly level; but in the north-
east portion of the valley, the ground begins to rise, and continues
to rise to Hill footin the north-eastern corner of the parish. The
old village of Dollar, as it is now called, is situated at the com-
mencement of this rising ground, and presents a most picturesque
appearance when viewed from Sheardale or the rising ground in
the parish on the south of the Devon.
   The Devon glides, with many windings, through the valley; but
as it keeps near the high land on the south, it is not seen to advan-
tage from the grounds immediately above it. The height of the
Devon at Dollar above the level of the sea must be quite inconsi-
derable,--from the circumstance, that a canal was several years
ago seriously proposed to be made to join. Dollar and Cambus,
(where the Devon enters the Forth,) but it was abandoned, whe-
ther from want of means to carry on the work, or a difference
among proprietors through whose lands it was to pass, is not known.
It would have been of great, advantage to Dollar and the neigh-
bouring parishes, by furnishing a ready mode of conveyance for
their farm and other produce,--altbough it might have interfered
with the picturesque effect of the ''clear winding Devon."
   There is a remarkable fissure in the front of Castle Campbell.
Whether it is a natural or artificial opening, is not well ascertain-
ed. The general opinion is that if was a passage cut out of the
rock to carry water in the event of a siege, from the rivulet below;
but it is more probably the work of some natural convulsion,--
though it way have been improved by artificial means. It is said


