
                          INVERESK.                             303

established and well-conducted house, is the chief inn, and affords
the best of accommodation. There are no fewer than 85 houses
licensed for the retail of ardent spirits within the parish--a number
altogether disproportioned to the population. The mischiefs aris-,
ing from the unlimited extent to which spirit licenses are granted
are incalculable; this, together with the practice of selling ardent
spirits on the Lord's day--a practice which cannot be too severely
reprehended-is productive of the most injurious consequences,
particularly to the labouring classes. Modern improvers of society
say, destroy the taste for spirituous liquors; but certainly it is
equally reasonable to say, destroy the opportunity of obtaining
them. Justices of the Peace and Magistrates of burghs have,
not sufficiently attended to the importance of this, and to such
inattention may, in a great measure, be traced the rapid increase
of poor's rates. It was surely in a moment of no common infatua-
tion, that Parliament vested the power of granting spirit licenses
in the hands of the magistrates of burghs.
   Fuel.-The only fuel used is coal, which is got within the pa-
rish or in the immediate vicinity. Small quantities of English
coal also are landed at Fisherrow barbour. The price of the for-
mer is from 1 3/4 d. to 5 3/4 d. per cwt. at the pit's mouth, that of the
latter is about L. 1 per ton.
   Gas Work.-A Gas Work was established by a joint stock Com-
pany in 1831, from which Portobello is also supplied. Gas is in
general use both in shops and places of business, and in dwelling-
houses.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   This parish has shared with others in the vast changes,and im-
provements which have taken place since the date of the former
Statistical Account. Its character has undergone almost a
total transformation. The plough has long ago, invaded the site
of its extensive barracks, which had often accommodated upwards,
of 2000 men,* and of those veterans who here found a retreat at
the close of the war few now remain. In the peaceful arts of life,
however, a change for the better is not less striking; manufactures
have sprung up; trade and commerce have increased; agricul-
ture is prosecuted with superior skill, new zeal, and far greater
success. The means of existence are more abundantly supplied;

<FOOTNOTE>So completely did the breaking up of the camp alter the aspect of the place, that
when the last regiment marched out, a wag wrote over the walls, "A town to let,
apply to Bailie Stewart."


