
                          CARDROSS.                               93

may amountto L. 25 more. There are five private schools, the
emolumentsof which are derived from fees, and vary from L. 15
to L. 70.The usual branches are, taught, and at the parish
school, theannual rate of fees is, for English reading, 1 Os. ; for
writing, 12s. ; for arithmetic, 14s. ; and for Latin, 16s. There
is, on the whole, a readiness to profit by these ample opportunities
of education, and there are few persons who cannot read and write.
Libraries.-Tbree libraries have been established : in Renton,
a general subscription library, containing 1000 volumes, and a
Sunday school library, consisting of 200 volumes; at Geilstown,
a general library for the landward district, lately established, and
already possessing upwards of 400 volumes.
Fundsfor Charity.-Tbe poor of this parish have hitherto been
supported without the aid of compulsory assessments. I'he weekly
collections in the parish church amount on an average to from
L.I 00 to L. 120 a-year ; and there is received from proclamations
ofbanns, morteloth dues, and rent of church seats, a farther sum
ofabout L. 15.  The number of poor upon the session roll is
about 70, who receive on an average about 6jd. a-week. When
a deficiency of funds occurs, the heritors regularly come forward
with voluntary contributions. In 1690, a legacy of L, 500 Ster-
ling was bequeathed by Mrs Jane Moore, to be invested in land
for-behoof of the poor of that part of the parish of Cardross lying
between Auchenfroe and Keppoch. It was applied to the purchase
of Ballimenoch, the present yearly rent of which is L. 228; besides
the dividend arising from about L. 1000 invested in the three per
cent. consols, which was obtained a few years ago by the sale of
the freehold superiority of the estate. The trustees are the mi-
nister, heritors, and kirk-session. There are 28 paupers on the
roll, among whom is divided L. 217. The ordinary expense of
management is limited to the clerk's salary, of L. 7, 7s.
In this parish there are no public charitable institutions, friendly
societies, savings' banks, prisons, or fairs. Considerable exertions
have been made to check the increase of public-houses, and, ex-
cepting in Renton, the number is moderate. An ample supply
of coals is brought down the Clyde, at a moderate expense of wa-
ter carriage.
On the whole, the parish of Cardross has made great advances
in general improvement and prosperity since the former Statistical
Account was drawn up, and may be reckoned one of the, most
'beautiful on the Clyde.
Revised February 1839.


