
			GLASGOW.		           197

feet draught of water. An act of Parliament was procured for the
above purpose, but happily nothing further was done in it.
	The magistrates soon after this required the assistance of mr
John Golborne of Chester, who reported on the 30th November
1768, that the river was in a state of nature, and that at the shoal at
Kilpatrick sands, and at each end of the Nushet Island, there was
no more than two feet water. He then porposed to contract
the river by jetties, for eight miles below Glasgow, and to dredge
and deepen it at an expense of L.8640. Mr Golborne having sug-
gested that a survey of the river should be made, the magistrates em-
ployed Mr James Watt, afterwards the celebrated improver of the
steam-engine, who, along with Dr Wilson and Mr James Barrie,
reported, that several parts of the river from the Broomielaw to the
Point House, had less than two feet water. In 1770, an act of
Parliament was procured, by which the members of the city cor-
poration were appointed trustees, with power to levy dues. The
trustees then contracted with Mr Golborne for deepening the ri-
ver; and in January 1775, he had erected 117 jetties on both sides,
which confined it within narrow bounds, so that vessels drawing
more than six feet water came up to the Broomielaw at the height
of the tide. On the 7th of September 1781, Mr Golborne made an
estimate for bringing vessels drawing seven feet water, to the Broomie-
law. Since that period several eminent engineers have suggested
improvements, the greater part of which have been carried into ef-
fect. On the 22d of August 1799, Mr JOhn Rennie, civil-en-
gineer, London, gave a detailed report respecting the deepening of
the river, as dhd also Mr Thomas Telford, civil-engineer, London,
on 24th May 1806; Mr John rennie again on the 24th of Decem-
ber 1807; Mr Whidbey of Plymouth on the 22d of September
1824; Mr John Clark, superintendent of the river, on the 11th of
November 1824; and Mr Charles Atherton, civil-engineer, Glas-
gow, in 1833.
	In 1825, the trustees obtained another act of Parliament ap-
pointing five merchants not connected with the corporation, ad-
ditional trustees on the river; and increasing the dues on all goods
passing on the river from 1s. to 1s. 4d. per ton, and on the ad-
measurement of all vessels coming to the harbour, in name of har-
bour dues, from 1d. to 2d. per ton. The same act authorized
dues to be levied for the use of sheds, according to a regulated
schedule, the former dues of 1s. per ton on coals having been
taken off.
	LANARK.				O


