

		            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

                      ON THE COUNTY OF PEEBLES.

                      BY THE REV. JOHN ELLIOT.
                       MINISTER OF PEEBLES.

   THIS county is sometimes termed the county of Peebles from
its capital, and sometimes Tweeddale from the Tweed, which runs
through the whole district. It lies between 55ø 24' and 55ø 50'
north latitude, and from 2ø 45' to 3ø 23' longitude west from Lon-
don. Its extreme length, from north to south, is about 30 miles,
and its greatest breadth, from east to west, is about 22. It is
bounded on the north by the county of Mid-Lotlhian; on the south,
by Selkirk and Dumfries; on the east, by Selkirk and Mid-Lo-
thian; and on the west by Lanark. By some it is computed to
contain 338 square miles, or 216,320 English acres. According
to Armstrong, in his Companion to the Map, who says that be
made an actual survey with a chain, it contains 251,320 English
acres. Mr Findlater allows a smaller number of acres to a square
mile than Armstrong, and gives 229,779 acres.
   General Appeances.-Tweeddale may be considered the most
elevated county in the south of Scotland, as only a very small part
of it on the banks of the Tweed where it enters Selkirkshire is so
low as between 400 and 500 feet above the level of the sea. * The
highest range of mountains is that which forms the southern boun-
dary, commencing at the eastern extremity of Traquair parish, and
extending to the borders of Lanarkshire. Along the summit of
these mountains runs the boundary line, from each side of which
descend streams which flow into seas on the opposite sides of the
island. A great part of this mountain range presents a dismal and
forbidding aspect, where a shepherd's cottage is almost the only
habitation to be seen. Even the names of places graphically de-
scribe their character and inhospitable appearance, such as Dead
for cauld in Megget parish. A lofty ridge of mountains separates
the parishes of Innerleithen and Eddlestone from Mid-Lothian on
the east; and on the north, the Water of Leith, the Medwin, a tri-
butary of the Clyde, and the Lyne, a tributary of the Tweed, all
have their sources in the Pentland Hills, the boundary in that quarter.
Like most mountainous counties, the boundaries are ill-defined, par-
ticularly towards the south-east, where Selkirk makes several in-

<FOOTNOTE>It is almost every where bounded by lofty mountains or high grounds.


