
198               ROXBURGHSHIRE.

   Modern Buildings.-These are constructed of stone and lime,
and covered with roof slate. The hewn work is of red freestone, from
a quarry belonging to the Duke of Roxburghe, in the parish of
Eckford. Hounam, the only village in the parish, occupies a
pleasant situation on the eastern bank of the Kale, in the neigh-
bourhood of the parish church, and at the base of a gently rising
ground, which, gradually retiring, terminates in hills of consider-
able height. It is a place of considerable antiquity, and is in the
course of being considerably improved and enlarged. A very sub-
stantial house for an inn, with stabling, and two other dwelling
houses of two stories each, have been lately erected; and some others
have been projected. A range of houses, called, from the circum-
stance of their having originally belonged to a tailor, Thimble-row,
is so nearly adjoining to Hounam on the north, that a stranger would
think it a continuance of the same village. This range of houses, to-
gether with all the other buildings in the village, excepting the school
and schoolhouse, are feus upon the lands of Kirkrow, the property
of Walter Dickson, Esq. Very commodious and substantial farm-
buildings have lately been erected at a considerable expense, and
on a liberal and well arranged plan, by this gentleman, and by the
Duke of Roxburghe. Several new and substantial bridges have
been erected within these few years. There is no other mansion-
house in the parish, except that of Greenhill, a seat of the family
of Roxburghe. It is deservedly admired for the amenity of its si-
tuation. It is a favourite resort of the Duke, and much attention
and expense have been bestowed upon it. The buildings are re-
markably neat, and the surrounding grounds tastefully laid out. Its
elevation is about 610 feet above the sea.
                        III.-POPULATION.
   The population appears to have been anciently much greater
than it is at present. Whole families, besides single individuals,
have, within these few years, emigrated to America. The farmers,
paying more attention to their sheep walks than formerly, hard-
ly allow a single house to stand on any part of their farm, excepting
such as are necessary for their shepherd's accommodation; and
landlords themselves do not encourage the erection of more cot-
tages than are absolutely necessary. The decrease of popula-
tion previous to the year 1791 is attributed in the former Statisti-
cal Report to "the mode of agriculture almost universally adopt-
ed in the parish about that period, of converting the arable into


