
312                ARGYLESHIRE.

tage; and a considerable trade, in one shape or other, is now car-
ried on between this parish and Glasgow, where the people send
many articles to be disposed of, and from whence, in return, they
are supplied in many of their wants.  About twenty years.ago
there was only one shopkeeper in Ross; at present, there are not
less than five in the small village of Bonessan alone ; besides
others in the districts of Ross and Iona, who sell goods.
There are now at least a dozen of boats trading between this part
of the country and Glasgow, but most of these are small, open, and
very insufficient, in which goods are frequently injured, and at
times completely damaged or totally lost.  A tolerably sized
packet or vessel that would go regularly at stated periods,-say
once a month or six weeks, wich a proper person in charge, would
benefit not only this parish and Iona, but the surrounding district;
and, from the traffic now carried on, there is every reason to be-
lieve there would be a sufficiency of employment.

                    IONA
includes the whole island of that name, and the following five
farms in the district nf Ross, viz. Fidden, Knockvolagan, Po-
tee, Creicb, and Caitchionn.  These farms, however, as being in
the district of Ross, and so included in the description of the quoad
civilia parish, have been already spoken to.
  Name, &c.-This island has received various denominations.
By Bede, who died in 762, it is named Hii or Hy, for the punc-
tuation of vowels had not then been introduced.  In the annals of
Ulster, written at a later date, it is put down I. Hi, Ioe, and Aoi.
According to Toland, I signifies in Irish an island, and is often
written Hii, Ii, Hu, to avoid making a word of one letter.  But
Hu, Dr Jamieson suspects, must, in the first instance, have been
merely an inaccuracy, in consequence of the double i being mistaken
by some transcriber for u . In the Transactions of the Antiquarian
Society, published in 1792, the Earl of Buchan names it Aemona;
and Pennant tells us that Iona derives its name from a Hebrew
word, signifying a dove, in allusion to the name of Columba; he
seems to have followed Keith, who, in his Catalogue of the Scots
Bishops, while treating of the see of the Isles says, "as the Cathedral
church of Icolmkill owes its name to a Greek word, so that island it-
self, called also Hy, Y, Iona, Ionah, derives that last name from the
word Ionah which, in Hebrew signifies a pigeon ; and is so called,


