
			BORTHWICK.                           169

almost extinct-and the scene of their greatness and splendour is
an uninhabited and fast crumbling ruin.
  It is solemn, amidst such thoughts, to stand, while the shadows
of evening are falling on the surrounding glen, beside the ever-
murmuring brook that hastens down the valley-and to permit the
scene before us, to make its natural impression on our minds.  A
few scattered lights are beaming from the humble windows of the
lowly cottages that lie under the shadow of the ruin-the castle itself,
in all its gloomy and solitary grandeur, still lifts its imposing mass
into the dusky air-and over all are the enduring lights of heaven,
which have witnessed, without change, so many revolutions among
the dwellings of men-and which are destined, through the long
coming years of the history of our race, to shine on so many myriads
who have as yet no intimation of the wonders of that ever-varying
scene into which they are eventually to be ushered.  The pre-
sent, the past, and the future, are thus brought, by the different
features of the scene, at one moment before us-and each portion
of the picture derives additional interest from the others with which
it is associated.  The effect of the whole is an impression that is
at once solemn and imposing.
   After the termination of the male line in the ninth Lord, who
was lineally descended from the first son of the third Lord,
the line of succession reverted to the descendants of Alexander, the
second son of the third Lord Borthwick-that is, of him who fell
at Flodden.  The last person of this line who claimed the titles
and honours of Lord Borthwick, and whose claim was admitted, was
Henry, commonly called the tenth Lord Borthwick. He obtain-
ed the title in 1750-and had voted at all elections of the Peers
from 1734.  His claim, however, was afterwards disallowed.
The title and honours are now disputed-nor does there seem
to be any probability that the dispute will soon be decided.
The name of Borthwick still belongs to several persons in this
neighbourhood, most of whom have some traditional story to tell
of their connexion with the distinguished and noble family to
whom the castle once belonged.  There is, in fact, a general cast
of features, which may be traced as belonging to most persons bear-
ing this surname.
  It is pleasing to recollect, that the castle, of whose occupants
we have been detailing the history, has not been stained or ren-
dered in any respect horrible to the imagination by the perpetra-
tion of any of those darker and more atrocious crimes,which were so


