
     Statistical Account

ment.  When estates are thirled to the mill of another heri-
tor, the proprietors of the thirled estates growl at another
man's reaping a certain part of the produce of their improve-
ments, without contributing to the expence.  One mill only
of this description is in this parish.  There are two others,
belonging to two different heritors, to which their own
estates only are thirled.  It seems to be a general with, that
an equivalent were projected, under the eye of the legisla-
ture, for abolishing this species of vassalage.

   Character.-A sense of religion and decency prevails among
the people in general.  One man only, within the memory
of tradition, was convicted of a capital crime, and suffered
for it about 50 years ago.  No doubt, such a number engaged
in distilling spirits, has a tendency to corrupt the morals;
but the bad effects of this trade are less discernible than might
be feared.  Were the effects worse than they are, there is a
fatal necessity of continuing the distillery, until some other
manufacture be established in its stead, whereby the people
will be enabled to find money to pay their rents.  The worst
effect of the great plenty of spirits is, that dram shops are set
up almost in every village for retail, where young and idle

<FOOTNOTE>

about the 48th part of the meal after grinding.  Mills and mul-
tures have been conveyed like other property.  The convey-
ance includes grena crescentia; sometimes are included invecta et
illata, and whatever tholes fire and water on the estate.  Use and
went is also said to constitute a right, without any written do-
cument.
   The miller's dues, or the wages for labour, are a separate
article, consisting of a certain quantity of meal instantly paid
out of every boll, (as formerly measured in ascertaining the
multure), both to the head miller and his substitute.  For this
payment, the millers not only grind the corn, but support the
machinery.  Often the head miller pays a rent to his landlord
for his place.  The multure and miller's dues are so heavy,
that, on some estates, they amount nearly to the value of the
land rent.


