
     Marischal College and University of Aberdeen.

criticism; systematic and controversial divinity; the history
of the principal controversies which have agitated the Chris-
tian church; and the pastoral care.  The whole course is in-
tended to be finished in four or five sessions.
   As by the appointment of the Church of Scotland, every
student of divinity must deliver, during the course of his the-
ological studies, a certain number of exercises prescribed by
the professors, whose instructions he attends; these exercises
are exhibited, every week during the theological session in
the hall, of King's and Marischal Colleges; in the former,
after the professor has finished his lecture; and in the latter,
every Saturday in the forenoon.  When the exercise is deli-
vered, the professor first asks the opinions of the students pre-
sent, and then proceeds to criticise the performance, and to
point out the faults he has discovered, in sentiment, expres-
sion, composition, and delivery.  The exercises required of
every student are, 1st, A lecture, or a popular explanation of
some passage of scripture; 2 d, A homily, or sermon; 3 d, An
exercise and addition, that is, a critical analysis of some por-
tion of the Greek Testament, together with an illustration of
the doctrine it may contain; 4th, An exegesis, or Latin dis-
course on some theological question.  The divinity session
commences, in King's and Marischal Colleges, about the end
of December, and concludes in the beginning of April.  The
detriment arising to the education of candidates for the sa-
cred ministry, from the irregular attendance of so many stu-
dents, has long been felt by the professors of both Colleges.
In order to remedy this defect, as far as lay in their power,
the synod of Aberdeen, at the instance of both professors in
divinity, lately addressed to all the students within their
bounds, an admonition on this subject, and appointed it to
be read by the professors, in the halls.  This has been alrea-
dy attended with beneficial consequences.  At the same time, Q 2

     Q 2


