
     of Clunie.

and though the pikes are supposed to be in best season in
March, April and May, during which time they bite most
greedily, yet they are in very good season in autumn, and
even in winter, provided they could be then taken with equal
ease.  Their best spring bait is a skinned frog, or rather a
fresh burn trout about 6 or 7 inches long, and their com-
mon summer bait is a cutting of a skinned eel, or skinned
perch.  Pikes have been killed in the loch of Clunie from
12 lb. to 24 lb. or even 30 lb. weight, but the ordinary size
is from 24 lb. to 6 lb.  They are commonly taken either
with the set line, or by trowling, that is, with the rod and
wheel, dragging a considerable length of line with a large
artificial fly or baited hook at the farther end of it; and
in order to trowl with success, it is necessary that the sur-
face of the water should be curled by a gentle breeze, and
that the boat should be kept all the while in a pretty brisk
motion, rather in opposition to the wind than otherwise*.

     Vol. IX. G g

<FOOTNOTE>

*Here are no rivers, but some considerable burns or brooks, the
Lornty, the Droothy, the Buckny, and the Lunan.  The hornty flows
from the Loch or Ben-achally, runs about 6 miles F. S. E. through the hil-
ly parts of the parishes of Clunie, Kinloch, and Blairgowrie, and, having
turned five mills in its course, falls into the river Eright, a little above
the Carth, a curious fall of the river, a little above the village of Blair-
gowrie.  The burn of Droothy uses from the moss of Ben-achally, sepa-
rates the barony of Laighwood from the forest of Clunie, and the barony
of Forneth, and, after a rapid course of about 3 miles to the S. E. empties
itself into Lunan The Buckny takes its rise from Loch-ha-chat, and
falling to the S. E. between the mountains of Ben-achally and Deuchara,
forms the Doo-loch; thence, increased by the springs of the Doo-loch.
thunders down a deep, narrow, rocky den, covered with wild wood, (call-
ed the Den of Richip), and, separating the parishes of Caputh and Clu-
nie, it enters the latter in the park of Laighwood, where it unites with
the Lunan The Lunan itself is by far the most considerable unites with in
the parish.  Collected from different sources in the Grampians, a little to
the north of Dunkeld, it proceeds eastward, and forms the lochs of Craig-
glash, of Lows, of Butterstone, of Clunie, and of Diumelly.  From this

     1


