
                           ALLOA.                          43

time in Alloa Tower, when superintending the education of the
young prince.
   Modern Building.--The new church was opened in June 1819.
It is an elegant structure, in the pointed Gothic style, 124 feet by
78 over the walls, and ornamented by a lofty tower in the centre
of the front, surmounted by a 6ne spire (built by subscription),
which together rise to the height of 207 feet. The ground on
which the new church stands, and the area in front, were gene-
rously given by the late John Francis Earl of Mar, with an express
provision that it should never be made a burying-ground. The
steeple of the old church has been allowed to remain; and near
it, is the cemetery of the family of Mar, which is a handsome Go-
thic building, erected in the year 1819, on the site of the old
church aisle, by the same nobleman, to whose generosity and spi-
rited exertions Alloa is chiefly indebted for the ornament Of its
elegant new church.
   The Independent chapel, lately erected in Castle Street, is a
neat building, and was opened in 1899.
   The Episcopal Chapel is a Gothic building, very judiciously
planned by Mr Angus, and erected in 1839-40.
   The Academy is a handsome though small building, in the Gre-
cian style.
   Alloa Park Mansion,-tbe seat of the Earl of Mar and Kellie,
which has just been finished, is an elegant structure in the Grecian
style, delightfully situated on a gently rising ground fronting the
south, about a furlong eastward of the ancient tower. The front
of the house with the wings is 120 feet, the depth extend-
ing backwards 185 feet, the whole forming an oblong square
of beautiful polished ashler building, having a large court-yard in
the interior. The external elevation, as well as the interior ar-
rangements, reflect great credit upon the taste of his Lordship.
The beautiful white freestone of which the house is built was
procured from a quarry in Alloa Park. Four porters'-lodges have
been lately erected. Garden walls, with hot-houses, of which there
are plans, are also intended to be added.
   Tullibody House,-a seat of Lord Abercromby, and the birth,-
place of the gallant Sir Ralph Abercromby and othersof that no-
ble family, is pleasantly. situated near the banks of the Forth,
amidst fine old trees and surrounded by verdant parks. The house
itself is ancient, and has no pretensions to architectural beauty.
   Shaw Park House,-formerly the property of the Cathcart fa-


