
                          PAISLEY.                                 175

son holding a conveyance to lands, and desiring to be entered or
invested in place of the ancestor or granter of the conveyance, ap
peared personally or by attorney, and, in the usual manner, made
symbolical resignation of his right in the hands of the magistrates,
for the purpose of obtaining what is termed "new and heritable
booking."  This "booking" consists in the registry of the res
gesta (including a description of the land, and a statement of the
nature of the party's right in connexion, with the person last "book-
ed,") in the record or chartulary, of the burgh, and an authentica-
ed copy or extract of registry, under the hands of the town-clerk,
was held to complete the investiture, without charter, sasine, or any
other written instrument.  This practice, however, became expos-
ed, in process of time to great inconveniences, and is now little
resorted to, except in the transmission of property in the different
churches.
   Regality and Sheriff.-The regality of Paisley was an
extensive jurisdiction, comprehending the domains of tbe monas-
tery, not only in this county, but in the counties of Ayr, Dun-
barton, and others, and had been erected while the barony of
Renfrew was yet a division of the sheriffdom of Lanark or Clydes-
dale.  The office of heritable sheriff was granted by Robert III.
to one of the family of Sempil in 1404, (the date at which the
barony of Renfrew was erected into a sheriffdom,) and the office
of heritable baillie of the regality of Paisley was conferrer by the
Abbot on another of that family in 1545.  Alexander Earl of Eglin-
ton, purchased the office from Hugh Lord Sempil in 1636, for
L.5000 Sterling.  The Earl, of Eglinton received a compensa-
tion from Government for these offices, at the abolition of heri-
table jurisdictions in 1749.  One sheriff-depute has jurisdiction
over the whole of Renfrewshire; but in 1815, a second sheriff sub-
stitute was applied for the, lower ward of the county; and the
sheriff-courts for that division are held at Greenock.
   Transference of the Sheriff-Courts from Renfrew to Paisley.-
This important point, long a matter of uncertainty, has been settled
by an index to certain deeds recorded in the Sherriff-court, to which
there is this prefix:-"Ane minut book of all bonds, obligations,
assignation, translation, tacks, contracts, renunciations, and others,
registrat in ye sheriff-court books of Renfrew, and regality books
to Paisley, since the 19th August 1685.  James M'Alpie, clerk."
There is a substitution subscribed at "Rosdow, 13th May 1694,"
by James Crawford sheriff-depute of Renfrew, to James M'Alpie,

