
252                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

Arbroath, from William the Lion, 1178,--in conveying to
that institution the lands of Mondynes, in the parish of For-
doun, it is said, "Dedi etiam eis unam carucatam terre in Mone-
thyne, super aquam de Bervyne, quam Willus de Munfort et
Umfridus de Berkeley, et Walterus Scotus et Alanus, filius Symo-
nis, et alii probi homines, mei per preceptum meum eis mensura.
verunt." This is, perhaps, the earliest notice of the name, which
was changed to Barclay in the fifteenth century. In 1351, the
family became possessed of thd estate of Mathers, in the southern
district of the county, and retained it for nearly 300 years.
   No individual of this race has been so conspicuous as the au-
thor of the Apology for the Quakers. He cannot be claimed as a
native of this parish, having been born in Morayshire, at the resi-
dence, of his grandfather, Sir Robert Gordon of Gordonston, the
historian of the house of Sutherland. He resided, however, at
Ury, for the greater part of his life, and died there on the 3d of
August 1690, not having completed the forty-second year of his
age. His body lies in the family burial ground, the most elevat-
ed spot on the property, in a small building, commonly called the
Houff; in which are also interred the remains of his son, grand-
son, and great grandson, all bearing the same name. With regard
to his religious system, there must be difference of opinion; but,
there has been only one opinion, with respect to the extent of his
erudition, the amiableness of his temper, and the continual bene-
ficent tenor of his life.
    Mansion-Houses.--On the north bank of the Carron, the late
Mr Duff partly rebuilt, and greatly extended the ancient abode
of the family of Marischal, and Fetteresso Castle is now one of
the most extensive and commodious places of residence in the
north of Scotland. Adjoining it is a large park, in which are
many trees of great size, and much thriving young wood, all en-
closed, and kept in the best order.
   Ury, the seat of R. Barclay Allardice, Esq. is a mansion of
moderate size. It was built by the family of Hay of Errol, and
must have been originally intended for a place of defence. The
walls are very thick, and every floor is arched with stone. It is
situated on it steep bank of the Cowie. This house is the most
striking object that meets the eye of a traveller from the south,
as he approaches towards Stonehaven. The park is very exten-
sive, and the adjoining fields are in the highest state of cultivation.
There are some venerable trees, much hard-wood, planted by


