
     The Statistical Account

duced, I know not.  Had you, or your trustee in the busi-
ness, found such an absurd assertion, it should either have
been supposed that the word berring was the mere slip of the
pen, as I see you have supposed in some instances with others
of your correspondents, or the whole account should have
been rejected as that of a fool or of a liar.  But if, upon
locking into the MS. you find, as surely you must find, that
the strange assertion complained of is not mine; you can
have no objection to acknowledge that no such assertion is
found in my papers.  Or, if this imply a trouble to which
you do not chuse to submit; will you, Sir, return the whole
of my papers, with your signature, or that of your clerk,
upon them, to ascertain their identity, that I may satisfy the
public, by the attestation of some of my respectable neighbours,
after their inspection of my manuscript, that the fool's cap
I have been made to wear was not put on by my own hand?
You know, Sir, as well as I, that there are minds which re-
lish nothing so much as ridicule, and feel a pleasing exulta-
tion of spirits, when they can laugh at a real or supposed ab-
surdity of their neighbour.  Among such minds, the her-
rings of Loch-Dowalton have attracted more attention than
all the rest of the paper; which indeed was neither designed
nor suited to attract any notice to the writer, but presented
some other objects, perhaps, not unworthy the steady regards
of humanity.  The writer only feels it as a misfortune to be
called to defend himself against a charge so foolish, that even
the defence seems to be folly.  The merry ones will continue
to laugh, and graver humanity will feel for him.  As those
who possess this character are the chief objects of his esteem,
he will be satisfied with not forfeiting theirs, which he hopes
never to do by any breach of truth.  As to the rest, you,
Sir, perhaps have read an anecdote of a French gentleman,
who was in the habit of foliciting from his friends favours


