
CANTSBAY.                              23

Meteoroloey.-The temperature of the atmosphere is milder
than might be expected in this high latitude. The oumm&s-         are
not very warm, nor the winters very cold.  This may be attributed
to the flatness of the surface, and to the sea bordering on so great
a part of the parish.  The most prevalent winds'are from the west
and south-west.  After the autumnal equinox, there common
falls a great quantity of rain for the subsequent six months.  The
-weather, on the average of the year, may be described as moist
and variable, rather than tempestuous.  The aurora borealis is
often seen here in great splendour.  It begins to be visible in the
month of September, and is occasionally of uncommon brilliancy.
It has been observed in a few instances to assume a dark purple
tinge, which gives it an awfully beautiful and magnificent appear-
ance.
Climate.-There are no diseases, peculiar to the place.  The
most prevalent distempers are, fever, inflammation, and rheuma-
lism.  The employments of the greater part of the inhabitants,
exposing them to the moisture and variableness of the climate,
may partially account for the predominance of these.
Hydro.qraphy.-The Pentland Frith separates the Orkney
islands from the north of Scotland.     It forms a communication
between the German and Atlantic Oceans, and is reckoned twenty-
four miles in length, and from twelve to, fourteen miles in average
breadth.  At the east end of the frith, stretching from Dun cans.
bay Read, is a rough and dangerous piece of sea, called the Boars
of Duncansbay; and opposite to St John's Head in Mey, there
is also a similar piece of sea, called the Men of Mey.  In both
places, the tide is very rapid,'and the Toughness is produced by
the collision of different currents.  The Men of M6y and the
Boars of Duncansbay appear only alternately, the forniero with the
ebb, and the latter with the flood-tide.  The current in the Pent.
land Frith is said 7to run at spring-tides nine miles, and in stormy
weather ten miles an hour.  For about half all hour at the turn
of the tide little or no current is perceptible.  North-east from
Duncansbay Head, in the eastern entrance of the frith, andabout
six miles distant, lie the Pentland Skerries.  On the larger of the
two, a lighthouse was erected some years ago.i It consists of
two towers, the one considerably higher.than the otheri with'st
stationary liaht on each.  Now,that a light-house,has beetiorected
on Dunnet Head, at the western entrance of- the frith., the navi-
gation has become comparatively safe even at night.
Springs,-There is abundance of fresh water spnegs in the Pa.


