
     Statistical Account

broad-cast way, on the same kind of soil, well plowed and
manured.  The average rent, per acre, is about 15 s. the
clay land letting at 1 L. the sandy soils at about 10 s. and
those of the intermediate qualities from 14 s. to 17 s. the
acre*.  Although the clay land in general produces large
crops, yet, on account of the additional expence which at-
tends the management of it, it is not by many reckoned the
most profitable; as the labour of this soil is often suspended
for a great part of the winter, and in the beginning of spring,
while all the necessary operations of that season are diligently
prosecuted on the drier lands.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In this parish, and generally in the whole parishes of the
country, the land-lords drew a victual rent; and this prac-
tice continued till Lord Fife introduced a conversion at 12 and
12 s. 6 d. per boll.  If the ancient rents were exacted, ipfis cor-
poribus, it would be found, that, on the average value of grain,
the present rents would not much exceed the rents established
170 or 200 years ago.  For, by the valuation of teinds, anno
1629, Spynie, on the one end of the parish, is then rented at 108
bolls, and now pays the heritor, exclusive of the precint or
bishops part, 72 L. Sterling.  The farm of Sherriffmiln, then
rented at 50 bolls, now pays 48 L.  In the vicinity of the town
of Elgin, and in the other part of the parish, Kintrae was given
up, anno a 1629, at the yearly rent of 130 bolls of victual, and
recently let by Lord Fife at 118 L. 14 s. of money, and 20 bolls
of wheat.  This, reckoned with the first quality of soil in the
country, is about 20 s. per acre; which, estimating the value of
a boll at 16 s. proves, that the present reddendo scarcely exceeds
the ancient exaction; and likewise shows, whether the farmer has
improved the method of cultivation, for he has no other source,
but the prices of cattle, which, in the memory of man, have
been tripled in value.  If the case were otherwise, the tenant
still could not pay, nor the land-lord receive, the stipulated
rents exigible 170 years ago.-It also proves that victual, then
valued at 5 L. Scotch the boll, has not been doubled, when every
other article of life has been doubled, tripled, and quadrupled.
Servants wages, in this parish, 40 years ago, were, for a plough-
than, 10 L. Scotch half yearly, now 30 L.; and exceeding it in
many parts of the country.


