
                            LANGTON.                     237

are Rubus saxatilis, Cnicus heterophyfllus, Gymnostomum tenue, and
Hookeria lucens. A little farther down, the same stream enters
and passes through Langton-Wood, a scene of much natural
beauty. Among its banks are found, more or less plentifully, Ve-
ronica montana, Rumex sanjuineus, (variety with red veins) Chry-
sosplenium alternifolium, Hieracium molle, Hypnum alopecurum,
(in fruit,) and Orthotrichum diaphanum. In the lower, and culti-
vated parts of the parish, Cerastium arvense, Tragopogon major,
(lately added to the British Flora,) Anthoceros punctatus, and Pe-
ziza Macropus, are the most remarkable plants.
   The following species are not rare, but may deserve notice, as
not having been observed elsewhere in Berwickshire.-Bidens
cernua, Myosotis sylvatica, Gymnostomum fasciculare, Bryum mar-
ginatum, Hypnum piliferum, H. murale, Jungermannia reptans,
J. tomentilla, Sticta fuliginosa.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-From its situation, the village of Langton
was exposed to all the misfortunes of Border warfare. It was
burned in 1558 by Sir Henry Percy and Sir George Bowes, and
at other times pillaged by marauding parties from England.
   During the reign of David I. the manor of Langton, with the
advowson of the church, belonged to Roger de Ow, a Northum-
brian follower of Prince Henry. Roger de Ow granted to the
monks of Kelso the church of Langton, which was accordingly
held by Henry the Parson. From him the estate passed to Wil-
liam de Vetereponte, or Vipont, who continued to these monks the
church with its tithes and lands, adding also those of Coleman's
Flat.
   In 1296, John Vicar of Langton swore fealty to Edward I. at
Berwick, and, in return, obtained a writ for the restitution of his
vicarage.
   The first Vipont was succeeded by his eldest son by his first
wife, Emma de St Hilary, and this family continued Lords of
Langton till Sir William Vipont was killed at Bannockburn in 1314.
Immediately after this, the estate passed into the family of Cock-
burn by marriage with the heiress of Vipont. Alexander Cockburn
of Langton was keeper of the great seal to Roberts II. and III.
He was made hereditary Ostiarius Parliamenti, and this office was
annexed to the barony of Langton by charter of James IV. Fe-
bruary 20, 1504.
   William Cockburn of Langton was created a baronet by
Charles I. in 1627. Sir Alexander Cockburn was killed in the


