
<APPENDIX>

lxxi

of Upsal*.  Though the inquiries therein mentioned, were principally
restricted to matters of antiquity, yet the justly celebrated Gustavus Adol-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The following translation of that letter, transmitted to me by Mr Knox
of Gottenburgh, may not be unacceptable to the reader.
   Be it known to you all, by these presents, That his Majesty, our most
gracious Lord and King, out of his royal favour and grace, having, with
peculiar care and good affection for his subjects, deliberately taken into
consideration, a plan, which in a various, extensive, and praise-worthy
manner, may tend to the lasting honour and renown of our dear native
country.
   Has been granciously pleased, on the 30th May 1630, worthily to consti-
tute, and with full powers to appoint, the well learned Dr Martinum As-
chaneun, in Himmelby and Frestad, and Johan Hindrickson, to be antiqua-
ries for the Kingdom.
   That his Majesty has furnished these learned men, with letters of instruc-
tion, ordaining them, narrowly and zealously, to search over the whole
kingdom, after all remarkable old monuments, transactions, writings, and
manuscripts, by which the history of our native country can be illustrated.
   To collect such, and make their remarks on them; and more especially
to attend to the following points, namely, to collect,

   I. All kinds of Runic writings, both in books, and upon stones,
   II. Runic computations, or the various distinctions and difference of
     Runic characters.
   III. Old law-books, corporation rights, secret papers, statutes, privileges,
     and edicts.
   IV. Old chronicles, histories, tables, Runic and heroic poems.
   V. Such old letters and writings as can ascertain the value of coins, and
     elucidate the genealogy and arms of noble families.
   VI. Old coins and monies.

   And, in short, any thing further, which tends to the praise-worthy im-
provement of our native country.
   All which, the fore-named learned men, are to deposit in the Royal Ca-
binet; and the result of their researches, shall, for the benefit and improve-
ment of the Kingdom, be afterwards published.
Therefore I, in his Majesty's name, earnestly and zealously request, that
you severally, in your different parishes, do truly examine your parishioners,
each apart, about useful old monuments, &c. which they, out of miscon-


