
			CADDER.                                 415

be given to poor householders in the district of Chryston, not upon
the roll,--so long as a board was kept upon the chapel in Chryston
in good order, and a tombstone also in good repair in the church-
yard of Cadder, recording the donation. These boards were com-
mon in the olden time. In the parish church of Cadder, there were a
great many keeping in remembrance the sums mortified for their
particular uses, by the beneficent individuals. They were all, very
improperly, cast above the ceiling in 1784, when the late church
was lathed and plastered.  When it was taken down, the only one
that was rescued was that of the Rev. Mr Warden, recording his
mortification of 1000 merks to the school of Auchenairn. It is much
decayed. Mr Hamilton of Mavisbank lately left to the kirk-ses-
sion L. 50 Sterling, which is deposited in the Glasgow bank, and
aids a little in Supplying destitute householders. Beside all this,
the necessitous householders would sometimes suffer severely, were
it not for the help they receive from their working brethren. No
less than L. 9 were collected lately for one destitute family, all al-
most from the working classes. It must be noticed that the extra col-
lection at the sacrament in Cadder is immediately divided among
the needy,--over and above their regular supply. This may ave-
rage L. 7. At Chryston, the extra collection is given to the mi-
nister, to defray public and private expenses.
	Fair.--There was a fair held in Chryston for fat cattle, and
other things about Martinmas: but it gradually dwindled away
about the beginning of the present century.
	Inns, &c.--Of inns and alehouses, there are at present no fewer
than 21; but not more than nine would be required. There is one
distillery in the parish; and another was lately erected,--but lucki-
ly there was not a sufficient supply of water, and it was converted
into a farm-steading.
	The fuel that is used in the parish is chiefly, it may be said sole-
ly, coal. Coals when carted above five miles cost 5s. 6d. the 12 cwt.

	June 1836.


