
458                            DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

Dumfries. The old tower at Lockerbie was last year converted
into a kind of temporary lock-up house; but such is the peaceable
disposition of the people of this part of the country, that not one
single person has yet been lodged in it.
	Fairs.--In Lockerbie, there are two fairs and ten markets.*
The two fairs are, the one at Lammas, and the other at Michael-
mas, when moderate tolls are levied by the proprietor. At the two
markets, all are free; but besides these, there are in winter weekly
markets, principally for pork, which is brought from all quarters
of the surrounding country to be disposed of here. I have known
the sum of L. 1000 and upwards expended by bacon-curers in one
day,--which they buy in at the average price of 5s. per stone, which,
when cured and dried, are sold at 6d. or 7d. per lb.
	Such is the importance of the Lammas fair, that I consider a
short history of it here will not be unsuitable: Lockerbie has been
celebrated for its lamb and wool market for several centuries back.
When the border raids had so far ceased as to allow a slight inter-
course between the Scot and the southern, our sheep farmers as-
sembled here every year, to meet with English dealers. This they
called a tryst; but, as Lockerbie increased in population, and the
friendly intercourse between Scotland and England extended it-
self, the fair became a greater object of importance, and was
held on the top of that range of hills south of Quhytewoollen, and
north-east of Lockerbie, which was granted in perpetuity as a
kind of "common" to that town,--but at what time or by whom I
have never met with a person who was yet able to inform me. It
is a curious fact, however, that the common was once dependent
on the city of Glasgow, until Lady Douglas of Lockerbie House
bought the right of superiority, who charges so much per head
upon, all the lambs that are shewn on it; and as the charges
amount in the aggregate to a considerable sum, it is let out by
roup to the highest bidder a day or two before the bustom is
collected, and he depends for remuneration on the number of lambs

<FOOTNOTE>The Lammas fair is on 2d August, old style, excepting Saturday, Sunday, or
Monday and in that case on the Tuesday following. The Michaelmas fair is on the
2d of October, old style, excepting Saturday, Sunday, or Monday, and in that case
on the Tuesday following. The two markets are on the second Thursday, old style, in Ja-
nuary, February, March, April, May. The third Thursday in June is called the Mid-
summer market. The next is fourteendays after the Michaelmas fair, if on Thurs-
day, if not, on the Thursday thereafter. The next is three weeks after the last, cal-
led the Martinmas one. The other is fourteen days after that, and the last on the
Thursday before Yule or Christmas, old style. The hiring market for servants for
the summer half-year is in April. For the winter half year, the one fourteen days
after Michaelmas. To these two martkets an immense concourse of people assemble
from all parts of Annandale.


