
	               KILRENNY.                             975

	dered that the burgh of Kilrenny be expunged out of the rolls,
	the same being now no royal burgh by Act of Parliament."
	   "Kilrenny holds feu of a subject, Mr Bethune, one of whose
	predecessors represented the town in the meeting of Estates in
	1689. It continued afterwards to send a representative to Par.
	liament without being objected to, and was inadvertently classed
	by the Articles of the Union in a set of five burgbs sending a
	representative to Parliament."
	   The same report states "that Nether Kilrenny bas a harbour for
	fishing boats-for the improvement of which L. 1200 were ad-
	vanced by the Board of Trustees for the improvement of fisheries,
	and L.500 werd raised by the town-which have been expended
	in building new quays; but they have not been judiciously placed,
	and the harbour is said to have been rather injured than improved
	by their erection."
	   "Kilrenny is in schedule F. of the Burgh Reform Act. By the
	old sett of the burgit the old council elected the new council. A
	change was, in 1819, made in the sett of the burgh. It was the
	practice formerly to elect the bailies from three leets, called first,
	second, and third magistrate's leets-.one being chosen out of each
	leet; but in that year. the classification was abolished, and the
	three bailies were chosen out of a general leet of nine persons,
	which change occasioned the disfranchisement of the burgh in
	1828; and the town has ever since been under the management
	of managers appointed by the Court of Session, as is usual in such
	cases, till the constitution of the burgh is restored, or a new one
	granted.
	   The harbour of Cellardyke is in all the charters designated
	Skin-fast haven.
	   Eminent Men.-James Melville, nephew of the famous An-
	drew Melville, was appointed minister of the parish in 1586. Sir
	James Lumsdaine of Innergelly was a major-general under Gusta-
	vus Adolphus, King of Sweden. He afterwards served in the
	Scottish army, and wis taken prisoner by Cromwell at the battle
	of Dunbar.
	   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are Sir Windham Car-
	michael Anstrutber, of Anstrutlier and Carmichael, Bart.; Ro-
	bert Anstrutber, Esq. of Thirdpart; the Rev. Edwin Sandys
	Lumsdaine of Innergelly; Andrew Johnston, Esq. of Rennyhill;
	Lord William R. K. Douglas of Denino; Mrs Driakwater Be.
	thune of Balfour, 'and Sir Thomas Erskine of Cainbo, Bart. To


