
                                 AIRLIE.                       679

sign of the royal arms is exactly copied, while the colours are dif-
ferent; "argent" and "azure" being substituted for "or" and
"gules.
   Antiquities.-- Near Cardean, there are the remains of a Roman
camp, which, though partially obliterated by Agricultural opera-
tions, can still be distinctly traced. The natural position is very
strong. It is protected on the north by the Isla, which comes
nearly close to it, and on the south by the Dean, which there
flows through a deep gorge; and the flat grounds contiguous to
both seem to have been swamps. Some remains of the great
Roman road, which ran east from this encampment along the
hollow of Strathmore, are also still visible. There are about 500
yards of it, in good preservation, in the eastern part of this parish,
commencing in a plantation on the farm of Reidie, and stretching
along some moor ground on the lands of Auchindory. About a
mile to the westward, in the old fir-wood of Landerick, on the
Glammiss property, there is a small earthen tumulus, surrounded
by a circular fosse. It appears to have been used as a station of
observation, as tumuli of the same kind `rd to be met with in
other parts of the county, near the remains of Roman military
works.
   Two caverns, formed within dry knolls, which probably served
as retreats to the ancient inhabitants in time of danger have been
discovered is this parish; one about half-way between the castle
and the Kirktown, and the other about a mile to the south. They
are separated by a deep hollow, but are within view of each other.
They seem to have been from four to six feet in width, from twenty
to thirty in length, and about six feet in height, and were constructed
with dry stone walls on the sides, and roofed over with very large
long stones, with a covering of earth. The entrances had been
concealed by thickets of broom. The stone covers, which are of
red sandstone, have been obtained near the spot, but evidently
quarried with considerable care and labour. In several places, on
the dry knolls, stone coffins have been found, some of them  con-
taining urns of coarse earthenware. In different parts of the pa-
rish there are remanis of Druidical circles, some of which are to-
lerably perfect.
   The old Castle of Airlie occupied a commanding position on
the noeky promontory, formed by the confluence of the Melgum
with the Isla. From, the natural advantages of the situation, and
the massive strenght of the building, it must have been almost,



