
190                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

to believe that these are abundant, but, having no nets proper for
the purpose, the fishermen seldom catch them.  Ling (Molva
vulgaris); common dog-fish (Spinax acantliias); common skate
(Raia batiq); haddock (Morhua Eglefinus); whiting (Merlangus
vulgaris); herring (Clupea harengus), very abundant from the
end of June to September.  Coal-fish, called here cole-sethes,
(Merlangus caybonarius); plaice or plash fluke (Platessa vul-
garis); flounder (Platessa flesus); holibut (Hippoglossus vulga-
ris); sand-eel, or sannel, (Ammodytes tobianus); mackerel
(Scomber vulgaris); common cod (Morhua vulgaris).  Rattray Head,
at the extremity of the coast belonging to this parish,
a variety of the common cod is caught, well known by the pro-
vincial name of the Rattray cod.  It is of a reddish colour, and is
prized as a great delicacy by those who are fond of fish.  Among
the rocks at Scotstown and Craig Ewen the parten crab (Cancer
pagurus) is plentifully found.  In the Ugie are the salmon (Salmo
salar); bull-trout (Salmo eriox), very rare; finnock (Salmo albus);
sea-trout (Salmo trutta); common burn-trout (Salmo fario);
minnow (Leuciscus phoxinus); common eel (Anguilla vulgaris);
fresh water flounder (Platessa fluviatilis).  In the Ugie the pearl
mussel (Mya margaritifera) is abundant, but the pearls found are
seldom of much value, being of a dark bue and only partially trans-
parent.  British pearls must have been in great repute at one
period, for Suetonius ascribes Caesar's invasion of Britain to the
desire of enriching himself with the pearls found in different parts
of the coast.  "Britanniam petiisse spe margaritarum."  But I
am afraid that the Ugie cannot prefer a claim to the boast of hav-
ing excited the cupidity of the Roman conqueror.
   Conchology.-There is little doubt but a conchologist might with
some pains, reap a rich harvest of gratification from our coast.
The following is a list of shells collected on the coast of St Fergus,
by Mr Alexander Murray, Netber Mill, a young gentleman not
more distinguished by his zeal and industry as a practical farmer,
than by his devotion to the pursuits of natural science.  To in-
sure accuracy the shells were named by Dr Fleming of King's
College, Aberdeen.  It will be readily observed that the Doctor
has followed the nomenclature assumed in his History of British
Animals.

<TABLE>
	Helix arbustorum		Trochus umbilicatus
	Turbo littoreus		------- ziziphinus
	Nerita littoralis		----- striatus
	Natica mitida	      Cyprea Europea

                           3


