
                             ST CYRUS.                                283

	The Stratons Of Lauriston.--"The Straitons of Laurieston were
a good family in the Mearns, but they are now decayed, though
some Straitons,' particularly Straiton of Kirkside, and some of
Laurieston, are standidg." (Nisbet's Heraldry). A branch of the
Lauriston family obtained a charter of the ecclesiastical lands of
"Ecelesgreig, alias Kirksyde," in 1582. "Alexander de Strai-
ton de Lauranston," fell with several of his sons at the battle of
Harlaw, in 1411. * "George Stratoun of Lauranston" was one
of the first persons of rank and respectability who embraced the
performed doctrines, anno 1540. He sat in Parliament for the
shire of Kincardine in 1567. His son, "Sir Alexander Strauton,
Knight," also sat in Parliament in 1597; and, in 1605, held the
situation of Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly,
which met in Aberdeen in that year. The conduct of "Lauries-
ton" on that and subsequent occasions is adverted to by the diffe.
rent historians of the church. (See Calderwood's History,
M,Crie's Life of Andrew Melville, and Cook's History of the
Church of Scotland).
	Mansion-Houses.--There are mansion-houses on the estates of
Bridgeton, Lauriston, Mount Cyrus, and Kirkside, all of late erec-
tion.  None of them, however, are at present occupied by their
proprietors, vith the exception of that of Mount Cyrus. The                               The-

the parish being full of Swees and Dutch souldiers, the people could not leave their
houses, so that there was this day in the church some Swees officers, and some heads
of families. The minister lectured from Exodus xiv. 13 and 14, v." (for the Egyp-
tians whom ye have seen to day, ye shall see no more for ever). "The Brigadier
had sent word to the minister that he could not stay above three-quarters of ane
hour." "February 19, 1716. The parish also this day being thronged with Swees
and Dutch souldiers, only some few heads of families were in the church. They
could not stay from their houses for fear they should be spoiled and plundered, as
many, were that day."

<FOOTNOTE>And then the worthy Laird Saltoun,
          The stout undaunted Laird of Drum,
          The stalwart Laird of Laurieston,
          With ilk their horses all, &c.

          And then the Koicht of Laurieston
          Was slain in his armour schene," &c.
                                      Laing's Meirical Ballads.

	"The Straitons were a race of men remarkable for size and strength. Their at-
tachment to Laurieston in St Cyrus was so great, that they changed the name of
every other place where any of them settled into Laurieston" (Former Account)-
The brother of Georgd Stratoun of Lauranston, David Stratoun, had a dispute with
Patrick Hepburn, Bishop of Moray, and Prior of St Andrews, regarding the tithes
of his fishing, and gave directions to his domestics to throw every tenth salmon into
the river, saying, "Let the Bishop seek the tithes where my servants get the stock,"
The remarkable conversion of this person is noticed by cotemporary historians. He
was a disciple of Erskine of Dun, and being cited for heresy, and having refused to
retract, he was led to the stake, and suffered with great constancy and resolution,
27th August 1534, at Greenside, near Edinburgh, with Norman Gourlay, a priest.


