
                      DALSERF.                            753

cannot be accurately ascertained.  The present manse, standing
on an eminence overlooking the church and village and the vale of
Clyde, is probably considerably upwards of 100 years old.  Though
commanding one of the most splendid views in Scotland, the house
is a very insufficient and uncomfortable residence.  It was proposed
about thirty years ago to build a new manse; but, from a misun-
derstanding between the minister and heritors, the latter contented
themselves, as they were entitled by law, with making some re-
pairs on the old building, and adding a back jamb, containing two
new apartmentr.  It would have been much more economical for
the heritors and their successors to have built a new manse at once.
The offices were erected at the date above referred to, and are in
good repair.
   The glebe consists of about ten Scots acres, of which about four
acres are in orchard.  It would probably bring a rent of about
L. 40 per annum.  The returns for fruit in certain seasons would
appear to warrant a larger estimate.  But it is well-known to those
who are conversant with this subject that a fruit rental is the very
reverse of being all profit.  The glebe is all good ground, and,
when properly cultivated, never fails to make a suitable return
In connexion with the glebe, it may be mentioned, that, about
thirty years ago, the present nominal incumbent of the parish; Mr
Craig, applied for, and, after some litigation, obtained as grass-
glebe, a piece of ground at that time in the possession of the Earl
of Hyndford, proprietor of Dalbeg, and which was partly covered
with trees, old and young, some of them of considerable size and
value.  Soon after getting possession, be proceeded to sell the
timber, but was interdicted by the heritors, on the ground that the
trees belonged to the living, and not to the existing incumbent.
The case came before the Supreme Court, and the decision was
that trees are crop ; that a minister is entitled to cut them down
for hir own behoof ; that glebe ground is given for the purpose of
furnishing meal and milk for his family, and that be is at liberty
to crop the ground in whatever mode he may think proper.  This
decision fixed a general principle as to glebe ground.
   The stipend in 1755 was L. 75, 6s. 8d.; in 1795 it was, in.
cluding the allowance for communion elements, and the value of
the glebe (not of the manse), rated At L. 148, 15s.  In 1807, an
augmentation was granted.  The present stipend, modified 2d June
1824, commencing with the last half of crop 1822, and finally al-


