
                         JEDBURGH.                         3

a quarter of mile to the south of Jedburgh is the remarkable
precipice of which Dr Hutton has given a drawing in his Theory
of the Earth.  There, both the primary and secondary formations
are seen at one view.  The strata of the primary rocks are vertical,
and in many places their irregularity seems to indicate the effects
of some great convulsion.  These strata, at their juncition with
the secondary formation, are interspersed with the layers of lime-
stone.  The strata of the secondary formation are horizontalm, con-
sisting of red freestone dent, alternating with soft sandstone of
the same colour.  This latter stratificaition is beautifully exempli-
fied in the lofty precipitous banks of the Jed, throughout the lower
part of its course.  With the red are frequently combined thin
strata of a pale yellow and a bluish-gray.  The strata are in ge-
neral exceedingly regular, but there is no uniform dip.  In some
places there are remarkable breaks, as at Sunnybrae,  where the
general direction of the strata is suddenly interrupted, and they
fall down in a direction nearly opposite; and at Hundalee Mill,
where they are curiously broken and bent into curves.  At Kers-
heugh the Jed is crossed by a dike of primary rocks, through which
it appears to have forced its way with difficulty.  A similar dike
occurs at Roughly-nook Hill, and runs in an easterly direction up
Edgerston Rigg.  Above the red there is abundance of excellent
white sandstone, which may be found in all the more elevated si-
tuations throughout the parish.  Some of the hills, however, con-
sist of whin reposing on the sandstone.  At the Carter Fell, which
forms the southern boundary of the parish, there is great plenty of
excellent limestone; and at Hunthill, about two miles from Jed-
burgh, there are six strata ranged at different distances above each
other, the thickest of which is nine inches.  A temporary kiln
was erected there about sixty years ago, but was soon abandoned
on account of the expense of coal.  In the glen near Hunthill
house there are considerable appearances of coal formation; and
at a short distance from this, various trials had been made for coal,
as appears from the council-records at Jedburgh, so early as the
year 1660.  In the year 1798 a bore was sunk, nine feet distant
from an old pit, at the expense of the country of Roxburgh, to the
depth of forty-five fathoms.  At the depth of thirty-five fathoms,
a hard bluish-gray freestone had just been pierced through, when
the rods suddenly sunk four feed without any pressure.  This ap-
peared to some to confirm the current belief, the coals had been
formerly found there; and they explained the sudden descent of


