
46                          FORFARSHIRE.

	The Dundee Sabbath School Society has thirty schools under its
superintendence, which are attended by 1500 children. There
are other schools not in connection with the society, affording in-
struction to about 250,-in all 1750 scholars. In these schools
the Bible and catechism are taught, and a number of pious and be-
nevolent individuals give their labour as teachers, gratuitously, on
the evening of the Lord's day.
	On the whole, the people seem alive to the importance of edu-
cation. It does not consist with the knowledge of the writer
that there are many between six and fifteen years of age who
are unable in some measure to read; and he has only met with
two above twenty years of age who could not read at all; and one
of them was a native of the Highlands, and the other of Edinburgh.
The s`md statement, however, cannot be made as to writing; many
in our public works are entirely ignorant of it; but the means em-
ployed of late, and those yet to be introduced, may remedy the
evil. On the whole, much has been done by the wealthier classes,
to produce and encourage a greater attention to the instruction
of the young; and it is to be hoped the effect may be to make
the rising generation better than their fathers.
        Libraries.-The town is well supplied with libraries. A collection
of books in the vestry of the Old Church, evidently belongs to Ro-
man Catholic times,-but of its commencement or design there is
no history. The subscription library contains 6000 volumes, and
received lately from government 69 folio volumes of the national
records. There are also district libraries connected with St
David's Church and St Andrew's Chapel, containing about 1000
volumes each. Some of the seceding congregations have similar
libraries.
        Watt Institution.-On the death of James Watt, the various
towns in the kingdom vied with each other in honouring the me-
mory of a man whose genius and skill had done so much to advance
the manufactures and commerce of the country. His application
of steam to machinery was the introduction, at a single stride, of a
power so prodigious that future times only will be able to discover

`nd to estimate its full value and triumph. For Watt no proud
mausoleum nor splendid cenotaph was necessary;-nor heeded he
that "storied urn or animated bust" should perpetuate his name.
Of him it might be truly said, looking to our town bristling with its
lofty stalks, si quaeras monumentum circumspice! The honour paid
to this great man in Dundee was one which his own benevolent
mind would have prized: it was the establishment of a Watt In-


