
254                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

in general, is nevertheless justly esteemed a favorable climate. It
is said indeed that owing to the purity, elasticity, and salubrious-
ness of the air, common epidemic diseases exhibit a less inveterate
character here, than in many other places. The most approved
system of drainage, so long and extensively applied both to arable
lands and to marshy and hilly pastures, has no doubt largely con-
tribute to the amelioration of the climate; and thus served not
merely to mitigate the severity, and prevent the recurrence of dis-
tempers--such as ague, rheumatism, fevers, and pulmonary com-
plaints-that were formerly so prevalent; but also tended greatly
to promote the healthfulness and lnngevity of the inhabitants./F*
     Springs and Rivers.--The waters of the spring situated near
Fair loans, to which were ascribed qualities of a chalybeate nature,
have utterly fallen into disuse. On being, analyzed, they were
found not to possess any mineral or medicinal virtues whatsoever.
It may be worthy of notice, that between twenty and thirty peren-
nail springs, in clustered order, and with margins of unfading fresh-
ness, combine to form the Oxfam, at the commencement of its
course.
     The Coquet water, which issues from the border mountains, skirts
the southern extremity, to the extent of a mile,--then enters Nor-
thumberland, and after having attained considerable magnitude,
empties into the British ocean betwixt Alnico and Coquet isle.
It is from the same alpine region that the Kale takes its rise. It
crosses the upper end 'of the parish, pursues a circuitous direction
by Howdah and more battle, and terminates its course of seven-
teen miles below the church of McCord, by joining the Cheviot.
The sources of the Oxfam are nearly two miles distant from the
English border.  It takes its way at first through a pastoral dis-
trict, then passing the village from which it borrowed its name,
winds along occasionally prominent and ornamented margins, and
after being largely augmented by tributary streamlets, also at length
mingles its waters with the Cheviot below Cradling, thereby clos-
in its rapid course of twelve miles. -The Jed flows over a rug-
ged channel, and along the western boundary for two miles.
   Geology and mineralogy.--No coal has hitherto been discover-
ed here, although certain local strata furnish strong indications of
its presence. At Snowfield and Richard's Laugh, steatite or soap-
stone occurs.  Limestone is found near the Jed, but it is under a

<FOOTNOTE>*
     The average age of the enrolled poor is 63 for the last ten years. A female be-
longing to this parish died lately at the very advanced age of 104 years.


