
126                     RENFREWSHIRE.

yard, the immediate relatives and intimate friends return to the
house where the death has occurred, to condole with the survivors;
on which occasion a simple repast is served up.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-With a few trifling exceptions,
the whole population is agricultural, or engaged in pursuits subsi-
diary to husbandry, or arising out of the ordinary wants of the
people.  There are 3 smiths, 3 carpenters, * 1 shoemaker, 1
weaver, 1 tailor, and 1 coal-merchant, who brings his coals by water
to a wharf at Inchinnan Bridge.  The number of persons employ-
ed in the quarries varies considerably at different times, and some
of them have their domiciles in other parishes.  There are five in-
dividuals who rent small portions of land, which they cultivate in
addition to other occupations. Three farmers live principally by sup-
plying distilleries with peats, which Southbarr moss furnishes of the
best quality.  Large quantities are conveyed by water-carriage to
Edinburgh, Clackmannan, &c. at the rate of 7s. per ton, and others
are taken by land carriage to Glasgow, Greenock, &c. The num-
ber of farms exclusively occupying the attention of the farmer is
19.  Their extent varies from 36 imperial acres to 216, and the
leases are universally of nineteen years duration.
   Rent of Land.-Grain rents regulated according to the fiar prices
are most usual.  Upon an average, the land is let at one boll and
a-half of wheat per acre.
   Rate of Wages.-Agricultural labourers are generally paid at the
rate of 10s. a-week in winter, and 12s. in summer; women earn
about 1s. a-day, and during harvest about 2s.; ploughmen are hired
at L. 9 for the half-year, with bed, board, and washing.  Married
ploughmen receive about 10s. a-week, with a free house and small
garden.  In some instances more is given, in others loss; female
servants are hired at L, 4 in the half-year; those who drive the
milk to market receive L. 5, being responsible for the payments.
 Quarriers earn at the rate of 12s. weekly in winter, and 18s. in sum-
mer; good carpenters receive about 16s.  The harvest is now ge-
nerally reaped by the Irish, who arrive in great numbers for that
purpose.  Their wages have averaged during the last two seasons
2s. 6d. per day.  Paisley affords a considerable employment to the
females of this parish in the embroidering of crape shawls and other
fancy departments of manufacture.  These works they execute in

<FOOTNOTE>One of these, Mr M'Kean, has erected a steam-engine to assist him in his la-
bours.  The machinery is so constructed, as at once to saw timber and thrash grain.


