
128                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

pretty extensive and beautifully level lawn. This lawn and the
ground adjacent to it are bounded on the south by a strong per-
pendicular sea-wall, whose summit is on a level with the ground
which it protects. From the lawn and house, one can view with
the utmost distinctness, the miscellaneous assemblage of individuals,
who are, in the course of the fine summer days, borne along
by the steamers between Granton and Stirling. The only other
mansion-bouse which I shall mention is that of Kilbagie, Robert
Stein, Esq. It is about two miles southeast from Clackmannan,
and one mile from the river.
  The Devon Iron-Works are in the parish of Clackmannan.
They are situated beside the river Devon, about four miles from
Clackmannan, and three from Alloa. From these works there is
one railroad which extends to Clackmannan-pow,  at the mouth of
the Black or South Devon. The length of this railroad is about
six miles. There is another railroad from the neighbourbood of
the works to the barbour of Alloa. Its length is about three
miles. The latter is under the control of the Alloa Coal Com-
pany; but, by an arrangement between the two companies, the
Devon Iron Company also enjoy the use of it. The ironstone re-
quired is obtained in the neighbourhood of the works, and also
from the estate of Clackmannan, and likewise from a particular lo-
cality along the margin of the Devon, about five miles east from
the works.  The intermixture of different kinds of ironstone is
thought to improve the quality, and of course to enhance the value,
of the pig-iron produced. The limestone employed is brought
from the neighbourhood of South Queensferry by the Fortb, and
the railways which have been mentioned. The coal used is ob-
tained beside the works, and is exceedingly well adapted to the
purpose to which it is applied. There are three furnaces in ope-
ration, and they now make, on an average, about 6000 tons of
pig-iron annually.There being an extensive foundry connected
with the iron-works,the Company convert a considerable propor-
tion of their pig-ironinto cast-iron goods.
  There are five collieries and a portion of a sixth in the parish
of Clackmannan; the Clackmannan, the Devon, a portion of the
Alloa, the Kennet, the Aberdona, and the Brucefield collieries.
  Distilleries.--There are in the parish two distilleries,--Kilbagie
and Clackmannan. The former is a work of long, standing and
of great extent. There is a space of nearly seven acres covered
by the various buildings, &c.; and the whole of said space is en-


