
                              PARISH OF GOLSPIE.

               PRESBYTERY OF DORNOCH, SYNOD OF SUTHERLAND AND
                                 CAITHNESS.

               THE REV. ALEXANDER MACPHERSON, A.M., MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE, name of this parish is, in the Gaelic language,
pronounced Goishbee.  Situated in the maritime parts of the High-
lands, the parish has, like many other places, in all probability, re-
ceived its name from the ancient northern invaders, who for a time
were possessors of these parts.  The attempts which have been made
to derive the name from the Gaelic language seem forced and unsatis-
factory.  The ancient name of the parish was Culmallie,-denot-
ing that the church or chapel had been dedicated to some tutelary
saint.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The form of the parish is an oblong,
stretching along the coast; its length is about eight miles, and
breadth about six.  The parish is bounded on the north by the
parishes of Rogart and Clyne; on the east by the latter and the
Moray Frith; on the south by that frith; and on the west by
the small inlet, which bears the name of Little Ferry, and the
stream called Fleet.
   TopographicalAppearances.- The hills near the coast are, Beinn
a, Bhrayidh, which is about 1300 feet in height above the level of
the sea; the Silver Roch and the Hill ofMorvich, both much lower;
and, in the interior, Beinn Horn 1712,1 and Beinn -Lundie, 1464
feet in height.  In the middle of the parish there is a valley called
the Glen of Dunrobin.  Through this glen runs a stream called
Golspie Burn, whose banks, for the space of about a mile, near the
sea, present very beautiful and picturesque scenery.  The range
of hills,,consistingof the SilverBoch, the HillofMorvich, and othersi,
in their vicinity, are rounded at the top, with a southern, seaward
aspect.  The flat arable part of the parish lies chiefly between the
coast-side,.hills and the sea, having the rude figure of a triangle,
one of whose sides is formed by the base of the hills, another by


