
682			AYRSHIRE.

be both the cheapest and most expeditious mode of operation. On
the ground thus prepared, better crops are raised than might be
expected, and such as to give encouragement to proceed with
the improvements. In operating upon the Shewalton moss, con-
sisting of about 1200 acres, though promising perhaps a better re-
turn in the end, much greater difficulties require to be overcome;--
the reason, we suppose, why it has so long been neglected. The
Lord President however, the principal proprietor, is setting to
it in right earnest. But as the moss is still in a growing state, al-
most a dead level, supposed in some places to be nearly 30 feet
deep, and in all probability requiring to be drained to the foun-
dation, a considerable time must elapse bdfore it is entirely re-
claimed. The large trunks and limbs of black oak which ate found
in a solid state very little below the surface, present also conside-
rable impediments to the plough, even on the outskirts of the moss.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--There is no market-town in the pa-
rish; but this is scarcely felt as an inconvenience, the distances to
Kilmarnock and Irvine being only five miles respectively, and that
to Ayr not more than eight, and the roads in every direction good.
Indeed, there are few parishes of equal extent so well accommo-
dated in this respect. The turnpike road from Irvine to Ayr runs
through the parish along the coast, passing midway betwixt Troon
and Dundonald; that to Dalmellington starting at the same point,
runs through the village of Dundonald; and these, again, are in-
tersected nearly at right angles by the Kilmarnock and Troon
road. In addition to these, there are parish roads in every direc-
tion, kept in tolerably good repair, and affording every requisite
means of communication. The only thing that the mounted tra-
veller has reason to complain of is the abundance of tolls; but, as
the toll seems to be indigenous to the county, let us pay and
pass on; for in this case we fear there is very litte hope of
writing them down. The accomodation of a bridge over the
river Irvine, at the ford near Dreghorn, is much needed, and there
is a prospect of this being accomplished at an early period by the
contribution of the neighbouring proprietors.
	Post-Office.--The post-office at Troon is the only one in the
parish; but, though it is of little service to the parish generally,
the defect in the case of Fullarton is supplied by its proximity to
the town of Irvine, and the village of Dundonald is accommodated
by the Troon runner passing through it daily to Kilmarnork. As


