
			     AXTON.                              137

centuries, the estates of Peelwalls and Bastleridge, to the eastward
of the former two, had each a distinct proprietor (as they have still)
named Home; and there is a deed extant in which Home of Bastle-
ridge is styled bailiff of the barony of Peelwalls. The latter place,
within the last three or four years, has undergone an extraordinary
metamorphosis under the judicious management of a new proprie-
tor. An elegant new mansion-house has been built of beautiful
hewn stone, brought from the far-famed quarries of Killala, in Fife-
shire; and the grounds and public roads have been so completely
changed and improved, that any one who has not seen the place
during that short period would be utterly at a loss to recognize it
as the same. It may here be mentioned, to the honour of a for-
mer proprietor of this place, whose name might otherwise never
have come down to our day, that there is the following inscription
on one of the silver communion cups. "This cup, originally given
by Magdalen Rule of Peelwalls, to the church of Ayton in 1677,
was renewed and enlarged in 1780."
   Flemingtons.-There are three places, all contiguous to each
other, of the name of Flemington,-concerning which there is a tra-
dition or conjecture that a colony of Flemish merchants had esta-
blished themselves here, and imparted their name to their new
settlement. As it is well known that the wool marts of these
enterprising people went by the name of Redhalls, the existence
of a place of that name in the immediate neighbourhood is corro-
borative of the tradition. One of these Redhalls likewise stood
at the bottom of the street called Woolmarket, in Berwick. From
the circumstance of the three Flemeingtons lying on the side of the
great hilly range on the south border of the parish, it is likewise
probable that this tract was chosen by them on account of its being
well adapted to sheep pasture, although now it is under tillage to
the very top of the hill. There is still an extensive sheep walk
on the other side of the hill, called Lamberton Moor, which be-
longs to the neighbouring parish of Mordington. The Flemings
had probably chosen the north side of the hill, on account of its
vicinity to the port of Eyemouth.
   Gunsgreen.-Gunsgreen House, close by the sea side and har-
bour of Eyemouth, is an excellent mansion. The principal pecu-
liarity of this house is, that it was built by a wealthy smuggler.
For the purpose of carrying on his contraband traffic, he construct-
ed it with many concealments within the house, and with others
attached to it. These, it is supposed, have not all been discovered
to this day; and if stored with valuable commodities, which, by any


