
726                           PERTHSHIRE.

vered with extensive plantations of stately forest trees, except where
here and there a rugged precipice advances its bare craggy front,
decline into the Strath,-sometimes with a gradual and pleasing
slope, -sometimes with an abrupt irregular descent,-and form a
fine contrast alike to the bold, bleak mountain scenery above, and
to the rich valley and meandering river below. Along the banks
of the Earn, which intersects the valley, elegant mansions, spaci-
ous lawns, extensive plantations, fertile corn and pasture fields
in a high state of cultivation, increase the beauty and variety
of the scene. So beautiful and varied, indeed, is the aspect of the
country, that travellers have been often struck with its great re-
semblance to some of the most delightful and romantic scenes in
Switzerland. Another narrower valley, but of equal diversity of
natural aspect, is situated on the banks of the Turret, which, on
the north-east, partly divides Monivaird from the parishes of Lon-
zie and Crieff. The scenery of Glenturret, at the head of this
valley, presents a fine contrast to that of the lower district, being
wild and grand in a very high degree.
     Meteorology.-An estimate of the atmospheric pressure and
temperature may be formed from the fact, ascertained by a rain-
guage kept for a period of several years at Dunira, in the im-
mediate neighbourhood, where the vapours exhaled from Loch
Earn are more subject to be intercepted by the closely surrounding
hills, and condensed by their attraction,-that the quantity of rain
which fell at Dunira was very nearly the same as at the obser-
vatory in Edinburgh.
     Climate.-The climate is one of the least variable in Scotland,
and, on account of its salubrity, the parish is more exempted from
epidemic distempers than almost any other district in Scotland.
     Hydrography.-There are several small lakes in the parish
the largest of which, Loch-turret, lies in the bosom of Glenturret,
at the foot of Benchonzie, surrounded by bold craggy mountains,
and abounds with trout, pike, and perch. It is about a mile long,
and a quarter of a mile broad, and covers about 113 Scotch acres.
     Lock-Ouan, a small lake in the same glen, and about a mile
north from the former, is remarkable for the great number of
trouts wbich are collected in a small opening in the middle of its
the only place which is free from weeds. In the lower part of
the parish there are three small lakes, well-stocked with pike,
perch, trout, carp, tench, and eel. The largest, of these, the
Loch of Monivaird, already noticed, covers about 30 Scothch acres.



