
   142                          BANFFSHIRE.

   the Protestant children in all the other exercises of the school, with
   the exception of committing to memory the Assembly's Shorter
   Catechism and the Protestant version of the Psalms.
     Poor.--The Protestant poor manifest no undue desire to become
   a burden on the funds; nor do they consider it a degradation to
   receive aid from them, when standing in need of it. The number
   on the roll is 40, and each, on the average for the year, receives in
   quarterly instalments about 17s.  The fund for their relief (which
   received an accession some years ago by a bequest of L. 50, made
   by Sir William Grant of Bildornie, who for many years held the
   high appointment of Master of the Rolls,) arises chiefly from col-
   lections at the church and Protestant chapel, and the interest of a
   small sum laid out at interest. The Roman Catholic poor, who only
   receive a share of any extraordinary gift to the funds of the parish,
   may be said to be supported by those of their own persuasion, who
   make collections for them at their chapels.
      Fairs.--There are four fairs held within the parish, a little to
   the east of the church, in the course of the year, for the sale of
   cattle, horses, grain, &c. and where engagements are entered into
   betwixt the farmers and their servants, for the harvest and half year.
      Inns,&c.--In the parish church district there are only two public-
   houses,--one of them an excellent inn. In Glenlivet, there are no
   fewer than nine public-houses,--a number quite disproportioned to
   the district, for which four or five would be quite sufficient.
      Fuel.--Moss, as may naturally be supposed, is to be met with, in
   all parts of the parish. Towards the mountains, it is in gene-
   ral black, and of excellent quality for fuel; but in the lower and
   river side parts of the country, it is much exhausted, or of such bad
   quality, that some of the more opulent give a preference, except
   for the kitchen, to English coals driven from Garmouth, a distance
   to some of more than thirty miles.
			  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.
      The parish, within the last forty years, has undergone a very
   great change, in respect to the improving and planting of waste
   ground, and the state of roads, bridges, agriculture and buildings;
   but, by far the most important change is that which has taken place
   in the habits of the people, since the suppression of smuggling.  The
   improvements which seem, at present, to be most wanted, are bet-
   ter marches, and greater encouragement for farmers to enclose by
   means of dikes and ditches, as well as for crofters to settle on the
   mooors, in order to check the tide of emigration; bridges over


