
	18                                NAIRNSHIRE.

	ly Societies established in the parish. Their object is to give aid
	to members when sick, or unable from age to work, and an allow-
	ance to windows. Each also allows L.4 to defray tbe funeral expenses
	of a member or member's wife. There was a Savings Bank kept
	by the minister of the parish for more than twenty years; but, on
	the opening of a National Security Savings Bank at Nairn, the
	funds were in 1841 transferred to it, as a more convenient loca-
	lity for the depositors. The amount of the funds transferred was
	about L.800.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on
	tbe roll is 44. There are about six more who require occasional
	relief. - The annual average allowance to each on the roll is IOs.
	The collections for their relief during the year, average as follow :
	Church collections, after deducting payment of session-clerk, pre-
	centor, and kirk-officer, L. 13, 1s.; received for the use' of the
	mortcloth, L. 3, 10s.; contributed by tbe heritors, L. 6; total
	collected exclusively for the poor, L. 22, 11s. The insane poor
	are entirely provided for by the heritors. There is no other re-
	gular mode of supporting the poor, but donations are sometimes
	given for their use by benevolent individuals connected with the
	parish. They are very unwilling to apply for parochial relief, and
	their relations often provide for them in order to save them from
	the necessity of such application. All admitted on the roll make
	over to the session for the behoof of their survivors what property
	they may leave at death, deducting funeral expenses. Little is
	gained in this way, as none but those with it property come upon
	the roll.
	   There are no prisons in the parish. There are. four fairs-St
	Colm's market, held the first Wednesday after 19th June; St
	John's, first Tuesday after the Inverness Martinmas market; and
	two fairs, held respectively a fortnight and a month after St Jobn's.
	   There' are four public-houses, three of which are hn the village.
	Their effects on the morals of the people are decidedly injurious.,
	   Fuel.-Three descriptions of fuel are used,-wood, peat, and
	coal. Almost all the parishioners have access to the mosses where
	peat is obtained. English coal are brought from Nairn.

           			MISCELLANEOUS OBSBRVATIONS.
	   In comparing the present state of the parish with its state at the
	time bf the former Statistical Account, several sitriking differences
	occur. During more than forty years that have elapsed since that
	period, agriculture, from being hampered bv ancient prejudice and


