
1026                        PERTHSHIRE.

level, rich, and well cultivated estate of Delvin, with the magnifi-
cent house of that name, rising on a woody bank about a mile and
a  blair to the south.

<TABLE>                      III.-POPULATION.
                    Amount of population in 1811,      1060
                                            1821,       942
                                            1831,       944
                                            1841,       763

    There are 189 families in the parish.   One family is Episco.
palian, but regularly attends the parish church.   Three families,
with a few other persons, belong to the Secession church, and at-
tend their own place of worship in the immediate neigbbourliood.
All the families, however, with these exceptions, are connected
with the Establishment.
                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
     Great improvements in agriculture have been for some time
taking place.  Wet grounds have been drained, rough ground
cleared, stone fences built, and hedges planted.  Lime is brought
from the quarry and lime-kilns upon the Gourdie estate, be-
longing to David Kinlocb, Esq.  Rich clays are applied to sand,
and a good permanent soil formed where there was no soil before;
green crops begin to raised, and a regular rotation of crops
begins in some places to be understood.  The valued rent of the
parish is about L.4000 Scots money.
      With one or two exceptions, the farms in general  are small.
Few of them probably rent above L.200 Sterling, and the greater
part of them are under L. 100.  Each plough, at an average, turns
annually about twenty-seven acres; and the rent of the infield
acre varies abcording to the quality of the soil, &c. from 10s. to
L.2, 10s.  The parish, besides supplying itself, exports a quantity
of victual to Perth, Dunkeld, and the Hiahlands.  The staple-
grain is oats and barley.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church was erected in 1840.
It ts a mftt substantial building of the Gothic style of architec-
ture, with a handsome ,ornainental tower.  The church accom-
modates about 600 people, and was built entirely at the heritors
expense, who have shown great taste and much liberality in the
trection of a place of worship every way so comfortable.
     The Manse was built about forty years ago.  There was, how-
ever, an addition trade to it in 1839 with several extensive alte-
tation and repairs, which have rendered the present manse both



