                                            BOHARM.                         375

                                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
                 There is no market-town or village.  Keith, at the distance of
              six miles east from the centre of the parish, is the nearest, market-
              town, and the village of Rothes is about the same distance in the
              opposite direction. Fochabers, close to the lower extremity, is
              about seven miles from the church, and Dufftown of Mortlach,
              and Charlestown of Aberlour, near the upper extremity, are each
              about eight miles from the centre. Elgin is thirteen miles distant.
                 A daily post passes through the parish on the route from Keith
              to Craigellachie, and there is a sub-office near the centre. One
              line of turnpike road, admirably formed and kept, passes from
              Keith to the suspension bridge, opening communication thence to
              Elgin, Rothes, Garmach, &c. The length of this road within the
              parish is four and a half miles. Another line of turnpike, called
              the Boharm road, branches off from the Great North Road half-
              way between Keith and Fochabers, and passes up the valley till
              near the upper end, where it divides into two branches, one lead-
              ing to Mortlach, and the other to Aberlour, Grantown, &c. with
              an offset to the bridge of Craigellachie.  The length of this road,
              including the branch to Mortlach, is, within this parish about
              twelve miles. This road is in a state of great disrepair, and one
              of the bridges, destroyed by the flood of 1829, has not, been
              replaced, so that for two or three years no tolls have been exigible
              on the line. This is understood to be owing to some dispute
              among the trustees about a debt contracted for the original for-
              mation of the road. It is much to be wished that this matter were
              agricultural produce of the parish, are the results of much and very careful inquiry
              and observation, and are as follows, viz. that of the 3761 Scotch arable acres con-
              tained in the parish, nearly one-sixth, or about 611 acres, may be held as unsuitable
              for the rotation to which the rest are subjected, as before detailed, being thin poor
              fields, hill sides, moss-edges, and the like, generally kept in poor pasture, and only
              occasionally broken up for very poor crops. This portion is taken as pasture at 15s.
              per Scotch acre. The remaining 3150, estimated as under the six-course rotation,
              give two-sixths of their number for oats, out of ley and awald crop; taken at three
              and a half quarters of produce per acre at L. 1, 6s. 6d. per quarter; also for oats,
              about one-half of another one-sixth, the shift after fallow, say 300 acres at four and
              a half quarters at same price. The other part of the shift after fallow is in barley,
              say 225 acres at four and a half quarters at L.1, 10s. per quarter. The sixth for
              fallow and green crop, 525 acres, gives 400 acres for turnips and potatoes at L.4,-the
              rest bare fallow. The sixth in new grass gives 300 acres in bay at L.5, 5s. per acre,
              and 225 acres cut green or depastured at L.2. 10s. each, and the after crop is reck-
              oned at 10s per acre. The last sixth, in second year's grass, is given as pasture at
              L.1, 5s. per acre.
                 The unarable pasture, burn sides, hills, glens, &c. is stated at the average rate of
              2s. 6d. for each acre of the arable land to which it is annexed. The lesser articles of
              produce, wheat, flax, tares, &c. have been considered as only displacing the staple
              articles of equal value. The produce stated is the average of ordinary years: but
              seasons occasionally occur, as in 1816 and 1817, when the grain is nearly a total
              future.


