
                             AIRLIE.			   677

into England to avoid the necessity of subscribing the Covenant,
the Earl of Argyle, a hereditary enemy of the Ogilvies, obtained
authority from the Committee of Estates to take and destroy the
Castle of Airlie, and that of Forter in Glenisla, which was also
one of the seats of the Airlie family. He accordingly raised a
body of 5000 men of his own clan, and proceeded, in the month
of July, to execute his commission. Lord Ogilvy, who had been
left in charge of the castle, perceiving resistance to be hopeless,
abandoned it to the assailants, who plundered it of everything
that could be carried away, and burned it to the ground. Argyle
is said to have shown-himself so extremely earnest in the work
of demolition, that, according to James Gordon, parson of Ro-
thiemay (Hist. of Scot. .Affairs), "He was seen taking a
hammer in his band and knocking down the hewed work of
the doors and windows, till he did sweat for heat at his work."
There is a tradition among the people of Rattray, that the men
who burned Airlie Castle halted for the night on the haughs at
that vilage; which agrees with the statement in the ballad, that
"they came down by the back of Dunkeld."
   The Castle of Forter was demolished in the same manner, ex-
cept that, if local tradition lay be credited, the Campbells kept
possession of it for several months before they destroyed and aban-
doned it. The Lady Ogilvy, who was then residing at Forter,
is said to have been treated with the greatest cruelty by Argyle,
who not only would not allow her, although far advanced in preg-
nancy, to remain at Forter till she was brought to bed, but even
refused to grant permission to her grandmother and his own kins-
woman, the Lady Drimmie, to receive her into her house of Kelly.
(Gordon, Vol. iii. p. 165). The House of Craig, in Glenisla,
although not included in Argyle's commission, was destroyed at
the same time. This part of the transaction is thus related by
Gordon: "At such time as Argyle was making havoc of Airlie's
lands, he was not forgetful to remember old quarrels to Sir John
Ogilvy of Craig, cousin to Airlie; therefore he directs one Ser-
geant Campbell to Sir John Ogilvy's house, and gives him war-
rant to sleight it. The sergeant coming thither, found a sick
gentlewoman there and some servants, and looking upon the house
with a full survey, returned without doing anything, telling Ar-
gyle what he had seen, and that Sir John Ogilvy's house was no
strength at all, and therefore he conceived that it fell not within
his orders to cast it down. Argyle fell in some chafe with the


