
702                        AYRSHIRE.

rine, daughter of the Earl, of Glencairn, assigned, in 1609, the
lands, of Glengarnock in behoof of his creditors, and went to Ire-
land, where he had got a grant of 12,000 acres of land from King
James VI. A few ypars afterwards, the estate was sold to Cun-
ningham of Robertland, whose son being unable to keep it, it was
acquired in right of a wadset by Adam Watt, clerk to the Signet,
from whose successor it was purchased, about 1680, by Patrick
Lindsay, husband of the heiress of Kilbirnie, and it has ever since
formed a valuable part of that estate.
	3. The barony of Ladyland occupies the northern quarter of
the parish, and contains upwards of 1800 acres, of which nearly
one-half is arable; the remainder, consisting of excellent upland
pastures, and a considerable extent of moorland. Of the arable
ground, about 400 acres belong to twelve different proprietors, the
general extent of whose properties is from 20 to 40 acres each,--
15 acres being the lowest, and 116 the highest that any of them
possess. They have all a right of pasture over the moorland. The
great body of the barony belongs, however, to the heirs of the
late William Cochrane, Esq. of Ladyland.
	Of the more ancient proprietors of this estate, there appears to
be nothing recorded. Prior to 1564, it had been acquired by a
branch of the Barclays of Kilbirnie, for, in that year, David Bar-
clay of Ladyland is one of the jury on the trial of Patrick Hous-
ton of that ilk, for assaulting Archibald Hamilton of Cochno, on
the streets of Dunbarton. In 1592, his son and successor, Hew
Barclay, was apprehended as accessory to some treasonable con-
spiracy for "inbringing of Spaniards to the overthrow of his High-
ness and all professing the true religion." He was imprisoned in
the Castle of Glasgow, but escaped and went to Spain. In 1597
he returned and took possession of the rock of Ailsa, which he
intended to have victualled for the service of his colleagues, but,
being surprised by his enemies, he ran into the sea and was
drowned. * Hugh Barclay, in his happier days, was the friend
and companion of Montgomery The poet and appears himself to
have written verses, as two of his sonnets have been preserved,
one of which is addressed to the author of "the Cherry and the
Slae," and the other to his friend Ezechial Montgomery. The
former of these is full of quaint humour, and shows that the au-
thor was, at the time of writing of it, in the country, "hotching

<FOOTNOTE>Spottiewood's History of the Church of Scotland, p.445.
          See Irving's edition of Montgomery's Poems, p. 96.
                                              4


