
                             PETERHEAD                               345

15 square miles.  The bounding line on the south, and partly on
the west, is elevated. and is denominated the Stirlinghill, the hill
of Invernettie, Blackhill of Peterhead, and hill of Cowsrieve.
   Topographical Appearances.-The Stirlinghill rises 282 feet
above the level of the sea; the highest part of the Blackhill is
about the same elevation; the other parts of the range are some-
what lower.  The Meethill, (on the estate of Invernettie.) which is
of a conical shape, and rises from 150 to 200 feet above the level
of the sea, is a deep mass of clay resting upon granite, and is not
connected with the above-mentioned range.  The other parts of
the parish are not much elevated above the level of the sea; the
surface, however, is diversified by eminences alternately with hol-
lows, and exhibits a connected state of regularly cultivated fields.
The Stirlinghill, which terminates at the village of Boddam, forms
the well known promontory of Buchanness.  Between the parish
of Cruden and the fishing village of Boddam, in this parish, the
sea is bounded by high cliffs of granite and other primitive rock,
forming mural precipices; and this part of the coast is indented
with many chasms, fissures and caves, and these in some cases di-
vide the granite from the trap rock.  Opposite to.Stirlinghill is
the small green island of Dundony, where, in former times, it is
said, there was a salt pan.  Opposite to the village of Boddam is
another small island, upon which the Buchanness Light-house is
erected.  From Boddam to the Bay of Sandford, the coast is low
and rocky.  The Bay of Sandford, extending some distance inland,
is bounded by a flat sandy shore, intermixed with pebbles.  The
point of Salthouse head bounds the bay of Sandford on the north,
and the bay of Peterhead on the south.  The bay of Peterhead
extends nearly. a mile inland, from the outer point of Keith Inch,
by which, and the town of Peterhead, it is bounded on the north.
The shores of this well known bay are flat and rocky, terminating
in sand and pebbles towards the west.  The town of Peterhead
is built on a peninsula or flat rocky headland, the coast on the
north side receding inland until it reaches the mouth of the Ugie,
a small river which forms the boundary between the parishes of
Peterhead and St Fergus.  The sources of the Ugie are in the
upper part of the district, where it has two branches, the North
and South Ugie, which unite in the parish of Longside.
   Meteorology.-The following table exhibits the average tempe-
rature and weight of the atmosphere for every month, and also the
quantity of rain which has fallen for three years, 1835-36-37.


