

70                                      SELKIRKSHIRE.


kets, and to the nature and quality of the food required for
the flocks, &c. let at an average of from 2s. 6d. to 15s. an acre.
A cow can be grazed for 40s.; an ox for about 45s.; and a sheep
for 5s.  through summe and winter; the  grazing of an ox being
about nine times the annuals grazing of one sheep.
  Brerds of Live Stock, &c.- "From the time of King James,"
says Mr Hogg in his Statistics of Selkirkshire, "down to the year
1785, the black-faced, or forest breed, had continued to be the
sole breed of sheep reared in the district, and happy had it been
for the inhabitants had no other been introduced  to this day.
However, about that period, the farmers in the castern division of
the county began to intrduce the Cheviot breed, which, for the
space of ten year 1796, when the  demand for Cheviots began to in-
crease so rapidly, and still to go on progressively, till it absolutely
grew little better than the tulipo-mania that once seized on the
Dutch."    Ettrick had soon her complement of this new breed.
They first appeared on the farm of Crosslee.   Shortly after they
were to be seen spreading and fedding on all our pastures; and
in spite of the indignation of the old shepherd at the rash conduct
of his young master, the black-faced "ewie wi' the crooket horn"
was banished entirely from her native hills.
   On two or three farms, a few years back, the "old black-faced"
had again made their appearance; but they begin again to de-
crease; for they find they are only welcome where the "white-
faced gentry" will not thrive.    Notwithstanding the regrets of the
"shepherd," therefore, we rather think the Cheviots will continue
to be our permanent friends and favourites.  The numbers of sheep,
as near as we can guess, may be about 26,000.    The cattle
here are of inferior concern.  The cows are generally short-
horned, or of the Ayrshire breed.  Highland kyloes are begin-
ning to be introduced on two or three farms, to pasture among
the flocks on the hills.   The practice is most commendable.
They feed on the leavings of the sheep.    They bring the rough
pasture to a bearing for producing a more plentiful crop of pas-
ture-grass; and a double advantage is gained, for a double crop
is maintained and obtained, while the whole pastureage on which
they feed is enriched, bettered, increased, and prepared for a
plentiful revival on the following spring.  The whole number of
black cattle at Whitsunday (1832) was 389, and of horses 58.
                                 4







