
     of Forfar.

   General Character of the Inhabitants.-The general character
of the inhabitants is that of industry and enterprise.  As in o-
ther large assemblages of men, instances of dissipation are not
wanting, and failures among trading people now and then hap-
pen; effects, which a sudden influx of wealth, and inexperi-
ence in the paths of extended commerce, seldom sail to pro-
duce and multiply; but it has been observed, to the honour of the
merchants of Forfar, by the people from a distance who have
had long and extensive dealings in this country, that there
is no town in Angus, where they find sewer bankrupteses and
more punctual payments.
   Articles of commerce are greatly more numerous within these
few years.  Wine of various sorts, which was formerly brought
from Dundee in dozens, and seldom used but as a medicine,

<FOOTNOTE>

the wise of a wealthy burgess going to church arrayed in a rich silk gown co-
vered by a homely plaid; now silk mantles and bonnets, and fashionable head-
dresses are no rarities; and even the servant maids begin in this respect to ape
the dress of their superiors.  Formerly a ball or social dance was not thought
of above once or twice in a year, and the ladies in general appeared at it dress-
ed in close caps like their grandmothers; for several years past there has been,
during the winter season, a monthly concert of Italian and Scotch music, per-
formed by the gentlemen of the place, and followed by a dance, well:  attended,
and presenting a company to ladies and gentlemen dressed in the modern fa-
shion.  Entertainments of the same kind are sometimes given in summer;
one in particular on the 19th of June, kept as an anniversary in honour
of St. Margaret, Malcolm Canmore's Queen, to whose munisicence perhaps
Forfar was much indebted.  Buchannan styles her.  "Leechssima et singalari
pidate Farima;' and ascribes many of the best acts of her husband's reign to
the influence of her piety and prudence, particularly the abrogation of Eve-
nus law of infamous memory.  Tradition celebrates her attention to the
good instruction of the young women in Forfar, and it is said it was the law of
her table, that none should drunk after dinner who did not wait the giving of
thanks, and hence the phrase through Scotland of the grace drink.  These
testive scenes are in general enjoyed at little expence, and have contributed
not a little to cultivate the manners, and to promote the harmony of this
society.


