
                                    NIGG.                          21

   a-days, of extraordinary longevity,-though a greater than ordinary
   proportion of the inhabitants arrive at a good old age, varying
   from seventy to eighty-five years.  Epidemic diseases are not
   common.
      Hydrography.-The Moray Frith bounds the parish on the
   south-east side.  The Cromarty Frith bounds the parish on the
   south and west sides. The Bay of Cromarty has the appearance
   of an inland lake, and is a remarkably safe and commodious place
   of anchorage for vessels of all sizes.  It was known to the Romans
   as Portus Salutis.
      The springs of the parish, which are very numerous, are all pe-
   rennial, and excellent, though various in their qualities. Strong
   chalyheates are not uncommon.  Sulphureous springs are likewise
   found, and even some containing a small quantity of magnesia.  Of
   the latter description, there is at Wester Rarichie a very copious
   spring named in Gaelic Sul na ba, the cow's eye.  There is a tra-
   dition that it flowed in olden times through the trunk of a tree that
   grew about 400 yards to the south-east of the present site, and
   that some injury or insult having been offered to this natural pump,
   the water disappeared, and afterwards came forth as Sill na b.4.
   While the water discharged itself through the tree, many diseased
   persons from distant parts of the country flocked to it for hearing.
   It does undoubtedly possess some medicinal qualities, operating as
   an aperient.
      Half a mile to the eastward of S61 na bit is a spring, noted as a
   favourite of the fairies, before they were driven away from the
   parish.  If, as is said to have happened in days of yore, any of the
   little people stole a child from a parent of the race of Adam, and
   left a puny bantling in its place, the child of the human parent
   might be got back by leaving the elfin near the well, late in the
   evening, and perhaps offering some presents to the King of Fairy-
   land.
      Half a mile to the eastward of this latter well, may be found,
   at the foot of the rock on the shore of the Moray Frith, a well dig-
   nified with the name of Tobar na.  Slainte, the well of health or
   salvation.  The occasion of its baving received this appellation is

   <FOOTNOTE>It would appenr from the following extract from the records of the kirk-session,
   that even in comparatively modern times, this well was much resorted to, and Sabbath
   Profanation the consequcuce.  "July 7th 1707. In regard many out of the parish
   of Fearn and several other parishes within the sheriffdom, profane the Sabbath by
   Coming to the well of Rarichies, John and William Gallie, &c. are appointed to take
   inpection every Saturday evening and Sunday morning of such as come to the well,
   and to report the same accordingly."


