
930                SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE

to be helped by a collection throughout the town next Monday."
A few years later, " the session grants license to John Mudie and
William Millar, to gather in this town on some day they shall
think most meet, some alms to John Maxwell in the Stockwell, for
the relief of him and his poor motherless bairns."  But while thus
so kind to the poor, the kindness was exercised in the spirit of
Christian wisdom.  At one time the poor were required to pre-
sent a ticket to the session, shewing how the bounty was expend-
ed, that the donors might be satisfied it bad not been abused.
The poor, too, were required to attend the public prayers on the
Lord's-day, and only those who did so were allowed " to get meat
in the town."  Thus did the Church make her charity subservient
to the spiritual welfare of the poor; and while the poor were cared
for, no encouragent was given to sturdy beggars.  Application was
made to the magistrates to disperse them.  In 1586, they seem to
have stood in crowds around the church-door plate, and to have
troubled the collectors.  It is ordained that they shall all be put
forth beyond the kirk-door and style, " except the poor old woman
who sits in the barrow within the kirk."  As an evidence of the
number of the poor in those days, it may be mentioned that in the
West Kirk of Edinburgh, when the population of the parish did
not exceed 2000, the number of paupers was 80.  Of course there,
as in Glasgow, all were supported by the liberality of the Church.
   But our forefathers did not limit their benevolence to the poor
of the parish in which they resided.  Like Christian men they
felt for the temporal and the spiritual wants of others at a distance.
Hence we read in the year 1589, that " the session ordains the
supplication of the Blantyre folks, who had their corn destroyed
by hailstones, to be read out the next Sunday, and the said folks
to be helped on the said Sunday."  And, what is a still more strik-
ing illustration of Christian liberality, we find that they, amid all
their own poverty and struggles, contributed for the relief of the
suffering churches of Geneva and France.  In 1590, it is said,
" touching the relief to the Kirk of Geneva, it is referred to the
council, and for their relief the ministers are ordained to travel
with the council on Saturday next."  With regard again to the
French Protestants in 1588, there is the following deliverance:--
" The which day the session ordains Mr Pat. Sharp, Principal
of the College of Glasgow, and Mr John Cowper, one of the
ministers there, to go to the council on Saturday next, and to pro-
pound to them the necessities of the poor brethren of France, ba-
nished to England for the religious cause, and to crave of them


