
684                            FIFESHIRE.

that part of the parish, that the people of Coltoun stand in great
need of an English school for teaching their children,-the ses-
sion, taking the case to their consideration, not only what is repre-
sented, but further, that there is a dangerous water betwixt this
and Coltoun; and that many poor things of that toun must be
lost entirely as to instruction, if there be not a school there, and
that parents who have substance of the world, and are obliged to
send their children abroad out of the paroch, will be hereby en-
couraged to keep them at home, and that the doing of this is ane
necessary and Christian duty, and for the special benefit of that
corner of the paroch, and not in the least lyable to any reasonable
exception, did unanimously agree that there be a school in Col-
toun, and offered to the minister their ready concurrence with his
project to that effect."
  Equal interest, however, was not shown by the people at all
times in availing themselves of school-training, for on the " 20
Martii 1643," this minute occurs: "The said day, George Ro-
bertson did give over his office of ye school and ye kirk, and ye
session, and yat because his-deutie was small and ewil payed," &c.
Probably, George Robertson might have set down the people's in-
difference to his own remissness or want of skill. In the present
day, at least, the desire for good education pervades all classes in
the parish, nor are the means for accomplishing it sparingly en-
joyed,-nine schools, besides the parish one, being in active opera-
tion. Of these nine, two only, on the Balgonie estate, have any
shadow of endowment; the one at Balgonie Square, enjoving an
annual allowance of L. 10, with dwelling-house annexed, the other,
at Thornton, having. L. 5 simply. These sums bad been allowed
by the former proprietor, and are continued by the present, with
a becoming liberality. Another school, at Balbirnie coal-hill,
merely provides the teacher with a house. Of the rest none have
any other means of support for the teacher, save scbool-fees,-a very
precarious and inadequate source of remuneration for a class of men
whose meritorious labours are of so much importance to the com-
munity. A female school in the village derives pecuniary aid from
the private subscription of a few ladies connected with the place,
chiefly of the Balgonie, Balbirnie, and Barnslee families.
  The parish school may be held up as a model, so admirably is
it conducted by Mr Duncan Stewart. Previous to his appoint-
ment six years ago, little could have been said in favour of its ma-
nagement; but it is now efficient in the highest degree, and, in point

<FOOTNOTE>This school has continued to opresent time.


