
                     FLISK.                            599

   Botany.- The common culinary vegetables are, colewort, cab-
bage, onions, leeks, carrots, peas, beans, potatoes, and turnips.
The grains grown are wheat, barley, and oats. Peas and beans
are also sown in the field.
   Plantations.-The plantations are neither numerous nor exten-
sive. The oldest is Flisk Wood, which is mentioned in the earliest
accounts, and fills tip the north-eastern corner of the parish, be-
tween the Tay and Corbie-burn, extending at present over ninety-
one acres. The largest is that on and around the summit of Glen-
duckie-Hill, covering 113 acres. The plantations 'altogether
amount to 264 acres; and, with the exception of eighty acres of
oak in Flisk Wood, they consist chiefly of larch and Scotch fir, and
are from twenty to forty years old.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   This parish cannot boast of any historical events of importance;
or of any occurrences worthy of note.
   Eminent Character.-The greater part, if not the whole of the
parish became the property of the Noble house of Rothes, in the
reign of Robert the Bruce, by the marriage of Sir Andrew de
Lesley with Mary, one of the three daughters and co-heiresses of
Sir Alexander Abernethy of Abernethy; and the Castle of Ballin-
breich was, for several centuries, their principal residence.
   In 1320, Sir Andrew signed the letter to the Pope, asserting
the independency of Scotland. His descendant, Norman Lesley,
son of George Earl of Rothes, was the principal actor in the mur-
der of Cardinal Beaton, on the 29th May 1546. The following
year, he surrendered the Castle of St Andrews to the French, and
went into the service of their king. He gained great reputation
in an engagement between that monarch and the Emperor, near
Cambray, in 1554. He enjoyed his honour but a short time, for
being wounded, he died fifteen days afterwards.
   Andrew, fourth Earl of Rothes, was buried within the old church.
The grave is about the centre of the present burying-ground. John
sixth Earl of Rothes, was promoted in 1667 to the office of High
Chancellor; and was created Duke of Rothes, Marquis of Bal-
lenbreich &c. in 1680. He died the, following year; and his
had was conveyed, first from St Giles's Edinburgh (whither it
had been pvivately carried) to Holyrood House, and afterwards
to Leslie in Fife, (where his Grace had built a mansion) with
the greatest conceivable funeral pomp.
   Sir James Balfour, Rector of this parsih in 1561, was appointed



