
782                       LANARKSHIRE.

impose on no man of ordinary understanding, and that could have
been derived only from writings such as Mr Owen's.  The conduct
of the disciples of the new system was in perfect consistency
with their creed.  They gloried in the open desecration of the
Lord's day.  Some, it was said, followed their ordinary occupations
on the Sabbath, others spent it in seeking amusement, and
not a few prostituted it to the purposes of intemperance.  They
made no pretensions to superior virtue, and they disregarded the
ordinary forms and decencies of civilized life.  Six individuals died
at the establishment, and were interred in a private burying-ground
connected with it.  Their corpses were carelessly shut up in unstained
fir deal coffins, and, without any mark of affection or respect,
were committed to the grave by a few of the inmates in their
ordinary clothes, after working hours.
   Mr Combe, after eulogizing Mr Owen's discovery as calculated
" to produce the happiest effects to the whole human race, without
injuring in the slightest degree the interest of a solitary individual,
" adds, " its utility and practicability may be incontrovertibly
decided, by a short experiment, whenever mankind shall be
induced to make it."  The experiment was made at New Orbiston,
and the result was the very reverse of all Mr Combe's anticipations.
  It was most injurious to the interests of the gentleman
who conveyed to the establishment the lands on which the buildings
were erected, and on whose credit chiefly the funds necessary to
their erection were procured. It was worse than useless to those who
enrolled themselves members, and embraced the principles of the
institution; and it terminated, as was easily foreseen by all but
Mr Owen and the dupes of his delusion, in a total failure.  After
struggling for a ahort time-with impracticable difficulties, it became
necessary to dissolve the society, and to dispose of the property.
The buildings, which originally cost L. 12,000, were estimated to
the purchaser at L. 2000.  When taken down thd materials were
resold for less than the purchase money, and now not one stone
is left standing on another.
   There is one circumstance connected with the history of this
establishment which it would be unpardonable to omit.  When
the runious state of the parish church led to its abandonment,
a portion of that fabric which had been upreared for the propagation
of infidelity, supplied for two years, after it had been
vacated by the inhabitants, a convenient place of worship to


