
                      SOUTH KNAPDALE.                 261

parish.  Roe deer, hares, and the common sorts of game are
found in it.  Pheasants have been lately introduced, and are in-
creasing.  Immense flocks of widgeons annually visit Lochcaolis-
port, and remain from the month of October till the month of
April.  In severe winters, a few swans are seen in the loch, and
remain for some time.
   Insects.-The rarer insects found in the parish are the follow-
ing, viz.

<TABLE>
Circumdila campestris    Geotrupes sylvaticus      Helodes Philandrii
Carabus nitens           Phylopertha horticola     Helops pallidus
------- glabratus        Celasua aurata            Aloptrus trigultatus
------- avensis          Lamia textor              Rhagium bifasciatum
------- clathratus       Elater Heloseiceus        Eliosiocampa nuestria
Tachypus Andreae         Lampyris noctiluca        Xerene hastata
Nicrophagus humator      Donacia micans            Plychopoda marginata, &c.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The district of Knapdale appears to have been originally in
possession of two clans, now nearly extinct in that quarter, the
MacMillans and the MacNeills.
   Professor Skene, in his work on the Highlands of Scotland,
states, that the greater part of South Knapdale was possessed
by a branch of the clan Gille Mhaoil, where their chief was
known by the name of MacMillan of Knap; and though the fa-
mily is now extinct, many records of their former power are
still to be found in the district. One of the towers of that fine
ancient edifice, Castle Sween, in North Knapdale, bears the name
of MacMillan's Tower; and there is a stone cross in the old
churchyard of Kilmory Knap, upwards of twelve feet high, richly
sculptured, which has upon one side the representation of a High-
land chief engaged in hunting the deer, with the following inscrip-
tion in ancient Saxon characters underneath the figure:  " Haec
est Crux Alexandre MacMillan."
   In later times, the Campbells had possession of the principal
parts of Knapdale, and were chiefly retainers of the family of
Argyle.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners of the parish are, Duncan
Campbell, Esq. of Inverneill and Knap ; Alexander Campbell,
Esq. of Achindarroch ; John Graham Campbell, Esq. of Shirvain
William A. Campbell, Esq. of Ormsary; John Campbell, Esq.
of Stonefield ; Lachlan. M'Neill Campbell, Esq. of Kintarbert and
Drimdrissaig; John Campbell, Esq. of Kilberry ; William Camp-
bell, Esq. of Dunmore; Neill Malcolm, Esq. of Poltalloch ; the
heirs of Sir Charles M'Donald Lockhart of Largie; William


