
     of Callander.

sent tense is made up of the present participle, and the present

<FOOTNOTE>

Gar-chonie, or Gar-choime, the inclosure of lamentation, from a bloody battle
between two clans, of which the tradition is still fresh in the country.
   Ach-an-lavich, the field of the industrious.  There are great cairns, or
heaps of field stones, gathered off the arable ground, which, at the present rate
of wages, would have cost nearly the price of the farm.
   Gart, the field.  Gart signifies an arable field of some extent:  Gartean is
the diminutive.  Both names are much used in the Highlands.
   Ari-vuri-cheardich, the shealling of the Moravian tinker.  Every place of
this country, in the early ages, abounded in wood, and there are vestiges, in
many parts, of furnaces, where cast iron was either made, or smelted, and formed
into rude implements, which were necessary for the use of the inhabitants.
-If we allow the authenticity of what SCOT of Scotstarvet says, in his
History of Scotland, that the county of Moray was so named from a num-
ber of Moravians who settled there, and that they were an active and in-
genious people, these Germans very probably imported the art of working
in cast iron, practised it themselves, and went up and down through the coun-
try, teaching their art to the inhabitants:  And in the intervals of peace, when
national industry was encouraged by the state, considering the difficulty of get-
ting iron from abroad, some of them might have been settled by government,
at An-vuri-cheardich.  The Gaelic always applies the word which signifies
tinker, to one who works in cast iron; and the word which signifies a sinith, to
one who works in iron that is malleable.
     Broc-lan, full of badgers, a farm where these animals still abound. 1 2 2 1
     1 2 2 1

   Binean, a peak rising behind the Trosachs, which seems to be all
that remains, in its original situation, of the mountain from which the
Trosachs were formed.  It is very singular, from the smallness of its cir-
cumference, and the altitude with which it pushes its head up into the
clouds.  This word is the diminutive of bein, a mountain.  The dimi-
nutives in Gaelic are mostly formed by adding the syllable ean, or an,
to the end of masculine, and ag to feminine words, with sometimes a small va-
riation of the preceding vowels, for softening the sound.  The language of a
people is always smooth or rugged, harmonious or harsh, corresponding to the
taste of that people for music, and to the nicety of their ear.  The Gaelic pays
particular attention to this circumstance, although it has the appearance of be-
ing altogether guttural to a stranger:  These gutturals are omitted in pronouncing
it, being preserved only, in older to ascertain the derivation, and point out the
root of the word.  Some late improvements, attempted in that language, are
picking out the bristles, to give it a smoother appearance to the eye, without


