
188 	                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

ments with neighbouring heritors, the plan was abandoned.  It
subserved, for some years, the purpose of conveying shell-sand,
with which the coast abounds, to the farms more remote from the
sea; but it is now entirely useless, unless as a reservoir for water
to the farm-steadings in its neighbourhood, and is fast filling up.
   Geology.-The greater part of the parish consists of a strong
adhesive clay, incumbent on a bed of ferruginous gravel, which
alternates, as far as the writer had an opportunity of observing,
with a white silicious sand.  There are numerous boulders in the
parish of gneiss, granite, trap, and graywacke; but the only rocks
in situ are those at Craig Ewen, and Scotstown Head on the coast.
At Craig Ewen, granite of a binary compound predominates, with
very little quartz, and where there is a vein cutting the native bed,
which rarely occurs, it is of a compact felspar of a very deep red,
and occasionally manifesting a great tendency to decomposition.
The soil in the neighbourhood is clayey.
   The rocks at Scotstown Head, which are only accessible at low
water, consist of granite, gneiss, trap, quartz, and primitive lime-
stone.  The gneiss and granite appear frequently in close and
inseparable union.  The granite varies in appearance as it comes
more or less into contact with the gneiss ; where the junction is
complete, it is white.  Where the granite underlies the gneiss,
but without any union between them except contiguity, it assumes
a dark colour, and discovers more hornblende in its composition
than in its other positions.  At one point the granite is graphic.
The general surface of the rocks exhibits gneiss, granite, trap,
and quartz, all blended together, and in forms of connection, vary-
ing almost at every step.  The limestone is separated by a fissure
from the granite, but appears in one or two places united to the
gneiss; and there is reason to believe that it forms a junction with
the granite at a more remote distance from the shore.  At Hythie,
in the parish of Old Deer, and in a line due west from Scotstown
Head, limestone and granite of the same character as at the latter
place, make their appearance in very intimate union.  At Black-
stones, between Scotstown rocks and Craig-Ewen, there are three
distinct congeries of large boulders within the flood-mark, con-
sisting indiscriminately of granite, graphic granite, primary and
secondary limestone, puddingstone, graywacke, gneiss, and basalt.
In the secondary limestone, ammonites are occasionally found, and
also impressions of a species of mussel not now known upon this
coast.
   There is abundance of peat moss in the parish, but none of re-


