
                          EDINBURGH.                       719

inferior to the English. The practice of archery having after-
wards fallen into disuse, in the year 1676 was again reviled;
the company was embodied, and the Marquis of Atholl was elect-
ed captain general. In 1703, Queen Anne erected the company
into a royal corporation; and the magistrates of the city gave
them, as an annual prize, a silver arrow to be shot for. On the
visit of George IV. to Edinburgh, the company mustered in full
force, and acted on all state occasions as the Royal Body Guard.
They did the same on the visit of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, in
1842.
   Prison.-The old prison or Tolbooth stood immediately west
of St Giles' church. It was founded about 1560; but being
incommodious was pulled down in 1817. Two years previous
to this, a new jail was commenced on the Calton Hill; and
was ready for the reception of prisoners in September 1817.
It is a very ornamental castellated structure in the Saxon style;
and is 194 feet long by 40 feet in width. The interior is divided
into six classes of cells; four for males, and two for females; with
an airing ground attached to each. There are two stories of
cells, one above the other. To each of these divisions of cells
on the ground floor there is a day room with a fire-place; and
an airing ground common to fill the cells of the division. Each
cell is for the reception of one prisoner; and is 8 feet by 6.
A wooden bed is fixed into the wall, and there is a grated window
and air holes in the wall for full and free ventilation. There are
in all fifty-eight cells. In the centre of the building is the chapel;
the lower part of which is divided into boxes far the felons, while
the gallery above is reserved for the debtor prisoners. The in-
firmary rooms for the sick are at the top of the building. The
keepers rooms overlook the airing ground; and at the back is the
governor's house, which commands a view of the Whole prison.
The whole is surrounded by a wall 20 feet in height, with a strong
massive gate in front. Over this gate there is a platform which
was originally intended as the place for executing criminals; but
in consequence of the strong objections made by the inhabitants
of the district, it has never been used as such. The executions
take place on a temporary platform erected at the head of Libber-
ton Wynd. In 1839 the number of criminal prisoners in the
Calton Jail, on the 1st October, was 216; of these 137 were
males and 79 females.


