
     Statistical Account

Cavel, and the other the Bishop's Cavel.  In each cavel
there are six shares called, Halfnets, and all the shares are
nearly of equal value.  The proprietors of each cavel em-
ploy an overfeet, who, in the beginning of the season, has
eleven men under him, but after the 1st of June, twenty
men, and occasionally a greater number.  Both the cavels
fish alternately the same water.  It often happens, indeed,
that both fish in different places at the same time.  Very
curious regulations are adopted by both cavels for fixing the
periods at which they succeed one another on the sea, and
on the different fishing stations on the river.  These regula-
tions have no connection with the stated hours of the day
and night, but are ingeniously calculated, according to the
ebbings and flowings of the tide, to give both the caveIs an
equal chance for fish.  The produce of both properties
are accordingly at the end of some seasons very nearly
equal.  Such is the general principle on which these regu-
lations are founded; but they cannot be particularly ex-
plained without an accurate map of the river, accompanied
with a long and minute detail, which would be very unin-
teresting to the public.  Besides the fish caught by their
nets and boats, they set short nets called feeths in some cor-
ners of the river, and salmon are often found entangled in
the mashes of these nets.  At the south end of Don Bridge
the proprietors have houses, in which they cure and keep
their salmon till they are ready for exportation.  They
meet once every fortnight during the fishing-season to su-
perintend their business, and give directions to their ser-
vants.-None of the shares of either cavel are let; it is
therefore impossible to say with accuracy what rent this
fishing would yield.  Its value is very great.  A single
share sold lately for L. 2500 Sterling.  Estimating each of
the twelve shares at this rate, the value of the whole fish-
ing of both caveIs would be L. 30,000 Sterling.


