
     of Barray.

lochs, or small creeks formed by the sea; whereas those
of the Danes are built upon eminences*.

   Fisbery.-There are great quantities of cod and ling
catched upon the E. coast of this island.  The fishing banks
extend from the mouth of Loch Boisdale to Barrayhead;
from 20 to 30 boats are generally employed in this busi-
ness from the latter end of March, or the beginning of
April, to the end of June, and five hands in every boat;
at an average they kill from 1000 to 1500 ling to each
boat.  Mr Macneil of Watersay, who took an exact account
of the number of ling sent to Glasgow in the year 1787,
found it to amount to 30,000, besides a great number sold
in the country.  They have not been equally successful at

<FOOTNOTE>

*At one time, the Danish governor made alliance with Macneil of
Barray, by marrying his daughter.  But after the battle of Largs, the
power of the Danes began every where to decline; and such of them as
remained here after the Ebudee, were restored to the King of Scotland.
were expelled or massacred by the natives.  In one of the adjacent islands,
there is a collection of human bones, where it is said the last of the Danes
were murdered.  In Kilbar are two churches, built by the monks, be-
longing to Icolumkill; another at Borne, dedicated to St Michael.
In Castle-bay, is a sort, built upon a rock, wich must have formerly been
almost covered with the sea.  This sort is of a hexagonal form; the wall
is near 30 feet high:  in one of its angles is a high square tower, on the
top of which.  at the corner immediately above the gate, is a persorated
stone, through which the gockman or watchman, who sat there all night,
let a stone fall upon any person who attempted to surprise the gate by
night.  Within the wall are several houses, and a well dug through the
middle of the rock.  The tradition here is, that this sort was built up-
wards o 500 years ago.  Buchanan calls it an old castle in his time.
It has always been the residence of the Lairds of Barry, till the beginning
of the present century.  Here are also several Droidical temples, none
of them remarkable for extent or structure; near one of there is a well,
which must have been once famous for its medicinal quality, as also for
curing or preventing the effects of fascination.  It is called tobbar nam
buadh, or the well of virtues.  There are a few mineral springs.


