
                           HAWICK.                               407

the street on the market day like so many cakes of ginger-bread,
and that the people used to look at them with as much curiosity
as the botanists of the present day, would do at a few exotic plants
from Van Dieman's Land." In contrast with this statement, and
as showing the advance that has taken place in the commercial
prosperity of the town, we deem it of importance to mention, that
during the course, of 1838, there were transmitted through the
post-office 31,148 letters, and 9932 newspapers, whilst the revenue
amounted to about L.1000.
  Roads.-The length of the turnpike roads in the parish extends
to about eight and a-half, and that of the statute labour to about
twenty-five miles.  The condition of both has been very much
amended of late years, but the improvement is more observable
in the immediate neighbourhood of the town.  Towards the east-
ern extremity, an elegant and substantial bridge has been erected
over the Teviot, from which the line of communication is carried
by an easy access into the main street, instead of passing, as for-
merly through the village of Wilton, where the road, being both
steep and narrow, was found to be exceedingly dangerous; and
an improvement of at least equal importance has been effected by
a total alteration of the road leading into the town from the west,
by which means a very considerable acclivity is avoided, and a
beautiful approach of ample width and almost level is opened up
along the valley of the Teviot.  The entrance to the town, both
from the east and west, is likewise considerably improved by
passing through a fine range of nursery grounds.
  Means of Communication.-Besides carriers to various places,
four mails pass through the town daily, two of them from Edin-
burgh, and two from London, by way of Carlisle.  There is like-
wise a coach from this to Edinburgh three times a-week, and an-
other to Jedburgh and Kelso every Tuesday and Friday.
  Bridges.-There are eight stone bridges, most of which are mo-
dern erections, three over the Slitridge, and five over the Teviot
They are upon the whole in good repair.
  Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church, as appears from the
ancient chronicle of Melrose, was dedicated to St Mary, in 1214,
and in the Roll of Bagimont, an ecclesiastic, whn was commission-
ed by the Pope, in 1275, to collect the tithes of all the benefices
in Scotland for the relief of the Christians in the Holy Land, the
rectoria de Havoc is valued at L.16.  It is alleged by Chalmers
in his Caledonia, though upon what authority he does not state,


