
                           KIPPEN.                           271

lections at the church doors, and receives L. 70 yearly, besides
a small sum for communion elements. There is also, at Buchly-
vie, a meeting-house in connection with the United Secession
church, which was built in J751; and contains between 400 and
500 sitters. The minister is paid also from the seat-rents and
collections; and his stipend probably amounts to about L. 100
yearly. There are about six Episcopalians in the parish, and
three Roman Catholics.
  The average amount of church collections yearly, for religious
purposes, is about L. 20.
  Education.--There are seven schools in the parish ; two of
them parochial-Kippen and Claymires; and four of them un-
endowed-one at Kippen, one at Arnprior, and two at Buchlyvie,
the teachers of which are paid entirely from the school fees; and
a female school, the mistress of which receives, from subscriptions
by respectable individuals around, L. 20 yearly, besides half of
the school fees. The schoolmaster of Kippen receives of salary
500 merks Scots; and the schoolmaster of Claymires 100-being
to the one L. 27, 15s. 6 1/2d., and to the other, about L. 5, 11s. 1 1/4d.
The ordinary branches are taught. Reading English is 2s. 6d.
per quarter ; writing, 4s.; arithmetic and book-keeping are 5s.;
and Latin, 7s. 6d. The parish schoolmaster has the legal accom-
modation.
  The people are in general alive to the benefits of education,
and desirous to have their children properly instructed.
  Libraries.--There are two small libraries in the parish--a sub-
scription library, and a gratis religious one; both of which have
received considerable attention from the inhabitants.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is about 32 ; and the average sum paid to
each of them monthly is about 5s. The annual expenditure for
the support of the poor is at present about L. 120. The money
arising from the collections at the church door, and from mar-
riage-dues, and the proceeds of mortcloth, with interest of L. 450,
was, till lately, sufficient for defraying the expense of supporting
the poor. But the interest of the money having ceased to be paid,
from its being lent on insufficient security, the heritors assessed
themselves for the deficiency in the poor's funds; and some of
them having had recourse on their tenants for the, half of the as-
sessment, they withheld their collections, which necessarily in-
creased the amount of the assessment; and from that source more


