
748                         LANARKSHIRE.

The employment of cotton-weaving is overstocked; and the weavers
themselves are tempted to continue and increase the evil.  A poor
man earning an insufficient wage is led to put his boys and girls on
the loom at a very tender age, in order to swell the amount.  It is
difficult to see how this state of things could be remedied except
by providing factory employment or other kind of work for the
young.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Hamilton, about
four miles and a-half distant from the centre of the parish.  Far-
mers and others belonging to Dalserf, verx generally repair to
Hamilton on Friday, the market-day.  There are several villages
in the parish.  Dalserf, (which derives its name from the parish, or
gives to the parish its name,) was at one time a clachan or kirk-
town of some size and importance.  It now consists merely of a few
low-roofed cottages, on the two sides of the lane leading from the
Lanark road to the parish church.  Till about twenty years ago,
when Garion Bridge was built, there was a ferry at Dalserf, con-
necting the two banks of the river, and which caused considerable
stir in the village.  Standing close to the mansion-bouse of Dal-
serf, the proprietors for a good while past have felt a natural de-
sire to have it wholly removed, and it bids fair very soon to dis-
appear altogether from the landscape.  Nothing but the presence
of the parish church, which cannot be so easily removed, saves the
few remaining houses from destruction.  The village of Rosebank,
about a quarter of a mile up the Clyde, has arisen in the course of
the last thirty years to supply the deficiency of dwellings occasion-
ed by the decaying state of Dalserf.  Rosebank is a beautiful vil-
lage, standing nearly opposite to Mauldslie Castle.  Building,
however, has already nearly come to a close in it, from the want of
ground for feuing.  There is a positive want of house accommoda-
tion in this part of the parish.  Mhllheugh, on the Avon, is a place
of considerable antiquity.  At one time, it had a brewery, a distil-
lery, a waukmill, and an inkle-factory, all of which have disappear-
ed.  A bleachfield, however, above referred to, the buildings con-
nected with which are already finished, is about to be set agoing in
its immediate neighbourhood.  The Lupulus, or hop-plant, is often
found wild near the village, and is supposed to have been former-
ly cultivated here.  An old two-storey house presents a curious
sun-dial in the Egyptian style, executed upwards of 100 years ago


