
             428                           PERTHSHIRE.

             surface of the upper part of the parish is peculiarly tenacious of
             moisture, so that in soft weather during winter every foot-mark is
             filled with water, while the lower districts are comparative light
             and dry.
                Quarries.-Roof slates were quarried at no distant date at Ob-
             ney and Tullybeagles; and are still quarried at Glen Shee.
             These quarries would be more constantly wrought than they are,
             were there an easy access to them by means of good roads.  The
             slates obtahned are of two kinds, blue and grey.  The latter kind
             is said to be the more durable, and it harmonizes well with the
             lead with which, when used for roofing, it is associated.  The old
             red sandstone found in the parish forms good building materials,
             and quarries of it have been opened for that end at Stanley, Cor-
             ral, Westerton of Kinglands, Hilton, Auchtergaven, and above all
             at Speedy-hill.  From this latter quarry, the stones employed in
             the new Castle of Dunkeld were obtained.  The sandstone rock
             here has a greenish colour, is close grained, and takes a fine po-
             lish.  The clay used for making the brick for this edifice-the
             progress of which was interrupted by the lamented death of the
             late Duke, of Atholl in 1831-was found at Marlhaugh, where this
             parish joins that of Redgorton.  At present, almost none of these
             building materials are carried out of the parish, except from the
             slate quarry at Glen Shee.
               Zoology.-This parish has been long celebrated for the abund-
             ance, the variety, and the excellence of its f`me.  The red-deer
             pays it occasional visits.  A few roe-deer make it their home, and
             early in spring mornings may be seen grazing with their fawns.
             Hares are very plentiful, and of excellent quality; and rabbits
             of late have become greatly too abundant and injurious to the
             crops.  Among the feathered tribes used for game, the pheasant
             claims the first place; and the grouse, the partridge, the woodcock,
             the wild duck, the snipe, and the wood-pigeon, follow in their
             order.  These have many enemies; among which aresthe fox, lurk-
             ing in the woods or among the rocks; the polecat, the martin-cat,
             the stoat,the weasel, frequenting stone dikes crevices of rocks,
             old walls, and roots of hedge. Among the birds of prey are the ring-
             tailed-hawk, the sparrow-hawk, the fork-tailed-gled, the buzzard
             not common, the magpie, and the jay-pie.  The dotterel, the plo-
             ver, the lapwhng, the curlew, the grey owl, and the fieldfare fre-
             quent the moors.  The heron haunts a small beautiful lake, sur
             rounded with wood, at the foot of Birnam hill.  In stormy wea-


