
                   TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                      453

for the two following years.  A shorter rotation has been partially
adopted by one or two individuals; but the result of their expe-
rience has not obtained many imitators.  It is believed by many
intelligent and experienced farmers, that, with the soil and cli-
mate of Aberdeenshire in general, the consequence of a short ro-
tation, and the over-excitement which it requires, is a state of ex-
haustion almost irreparable.
   Oats, and bear or big with a little barley, are the kinds of
grain upon which the farmer depends.  He may at times sow a
patch of wheat for family use, which in good years answers re-
markablv well; but there is no chance of its coming into general
cultivation.  With almost no exceptions the grounds throughout
the parish are remarkably well adapted for turnips, which, with
potatoes, are used for a cleaning crop.  The latter, are chiefly cul-
tivated for family use.  In some cases, they are given to horses,
and sometimes, in winter, when the snow is deep, or in spring,
when an early vegetation has rendered the turnip useless, they
serve the farmer in great stead for enabling him to carry on his
feeders, or to bring his rising stock of cattle in good condition to
the grass.  But hitherto they have not been grown to such an extent
as to serve as a staple article for either of those purposes.  Bone-
dust is now used very generally where there happens to be a short
coming in the quantity of animal dung, and answers remarkably well.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce may be
stated as follows:-

<TABLE>
Oats tend bear, reckoning six returns, and calculating according to the ave.
  rage fiar-price of last seven years,	                              L. 5102
Turnips and potatoes, at L.4, 15s. per acre,	                           1818
Hay, at L.3, 10s. per acre,                                                1340
Pasture of arable ground, at L.1, 10s. per acre,                           1149
Pasture not arable, at 5s. per acre,	                                  202

   On many of the farms, the average return here adopted would
be very much exceeded; but, taking the inferior ones into the
account with the croft-lands, which are not always the best ma-
naged, it is believed to be a pretty correct approximation to the
truth.  The price of seed has to be deducted from the amount
stated.  For several years past, the breadth of land sown with bear
has been gradually diminishing.  In the above statement, it has
been taken at one-third of what is laid down with grass seeds
after turnip.
   The great improvements which have taken place in the ma-
nagement of the ground, within the last twenty years in particular,


