
944				PERTHSHIRE.

dation exists in the close vicinity, as is to be found in Perth. Not-
withstanding, however, this somewhat anomalous state of things,
and the hindrances thence arising to the working of a scheme
for supporting its poor, which has been introduced since the
indution of the present incumbent, the fact of the collections
being nearly treble the amount of what they were before the
new church was erected, indicates a quantum of attendance
throughout the year, as large as can, in the circumstances, be
expected. The whole population, of all ages, connected with
the Establishments, residitig within two miles of the church, does
not exceed 1500; and of these, from 500 to 550 are hearers at
Kinnoull; whilst about 200 attend other Established churches in
Perth. The number of communicants varies from 420 to 500
The Lord's Supper is dispensed twice in the year, on the same
days on which that solemnity is observed in Perth. Occasionally
a few individuals from the distant corners of the parish join here
at these times, but the great majority of such, partake of the ordi-
nance in the churches of St Madoes, St Martins, and Kinfauns,
where, on account of their distance from their parish church, they
seek the benefit of Sabbath-day service throughout the year.
From 80 to l00 of the parishioners communicate in these churches.
   Education.--The parochial school is well attended by about
180 scholars on an average; the salary is the maximum; and the
amount of the teacher's fees is about forty guineas annually. His
emoluments as session-clerk may-be reckoned at L. 10; but these
are still more contingent. There is a good school and school-
house, with an excellent garden attached.
   The higher branches of instruction are rarely sought for here,
Perth, with it's academy and grammar-school, being close at hand.
There are three unendowed schools; one at Bridgend, and two ly-
ing on the outskirts of the parish, namely, at Balbeggie and Bal-
cheyeek; the latter located in Kinfaus, but within a few yards of the
Kinmoull boundary. In these districts, much difficulty is felt in re-
taining the services of a good teacher. A small salary, in addition
to the scanty amount of school-fees, is required, and endeavors
are at present employed with a view to secure this object. The
people may be said to be generally fully alive to the benefits of
education, and there are few, if any, of their children between six
and fifteen years of age who cannot read or write. Where pover-
ty is pleaded or known as the hindrance to bestowing this in valu-
able hour, the parochial teacher, on the recommendation of the


