
		             ABERDEEN.   			77

was more pure than what came froM the upper and more distant
springs; but both the low level and the smallness of the springs pre-
vented the whole of the town being supplied from them.  The average
produce of the lower springs in ordinary seasons was about 75
lons per minute, and of the upper springs about 55; but both were
liable to considerable diminution in dry seasons.  The demands of
the city having increased with its population, and considerable in-
convenience having been experienced on several occasions by the
deficiency of the supply, it was resolved in 1830 to bring a supply
of water into town from the river Dee, and for this purpose a steam-
engine was erected at the north end of the bridge of Dee, about
a mile and three-quarters distant.  The water is brought to this
engine by a tunnel about a quarter of a mile long, which does not
communicate directly with the river, but receives the water by fil-
tration through a bed of sand.  There are two single stroke en-
gines used, each of fifty horses' power, which are wrought alternate-
ly for about twelve hours per day, and by these the water is forced
into a cistern situated at the west end of Union Place, and elevated
130 feet above the engine, being placed at the height feet of 40 feet
above the street, by which means sufficient elevation is obtained to
permit the water to be distributed abundantly to all parts of the
town.  The size of this cistern is 50 feet by 30, with a depth of 9
feet, and it is capable of containing 84,375 gallons.  The quan-
tity of water raised by these engines in twenty-four hours is about
900,000 gallons, and it is distributed through the town to supply
both the public wells and private service pipes to the inhabitants,
through pipes, the aggregate length of which is nearly eleven miles
and a-half.  The number of public wells is at present 92, and there
are 909 private service pipes.  The expense of procuring and main-
taining this supply is defrayed by an assessment of 9d. per pound
on the rent of the houses; shops, warehouses, &c. being charged
4s. annually in place of this.  These persons who wish to have a
supply for their own use are charged additional 6d. per L. 1 of rent.
   The management of the supply of water is vested in the Com-
missioners of Police, on whom falls also the care of lighting, pav-
ing, cleaning, and watching the streets, and for these purposes (the
expense paving any street for the first time being borne by the
proprietors of the houses in the street) a police assessment is le-
vied, of 2s. per pound on the rent if above L. 3 and under L. 7, and
2s. 3d. if above this.  The number of public lamps is 1130, of
which 996 in the principal streets are lighted with gas, the rest
being oil lamps.  The number of men employed in cleaning the


