
546         GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

found in its cliffs and flanks at Innerkip and Gourock, is not
so much a calcareous tuffa as a limestone conglomerate. A
deposit resembling that at Innerkip, occurs near the Rumbling
Bridge, in the county of Perth. It was mentioned long ago by
a competent authority, that in the steep banks of some of the
numerous rivulets from the bills along the Renfrewshire coast,
and in a thick bed of schistus, there appears a " thin seam of
limestone,divided into pieces about the size of a man's head,and of
excellent quality." These as they fall (for the expense of ground
and labour would far exceed their value) are carefully collected,
and used with good effect by the attentive farmer.  The old red
sandstone or conglomerate is penetrated almost everywhere by
dikes, consisting of greenstone, often highly crystalline, amygdaloid,
wacke, porphyry, and trap-tuff.  A particular description of that
sort of wacke termed osmond-stone will be found in the account
of Eaglesham.  From Clune Brae till near Bishopton, the shore
of the Clyde is of trap rocks. The highest hills in the county
are, however, of porphyry, such as Misty Law, Staik Hill, and
Queenside Hill. In this last hill, there is a vein of the sulphate
of barytes, as before stated, and, according to Mr Montgomery, a
" well-defined dike of a peculiar kind of porphyry passes through
the common porphyry." The porphyry is mostly flanked with
greenstone. Generally speaking, the highest lands in the most
hilly districts of Renfrewshire are composed of igneous rocks, in-
cluding the 'parishes of Lochwinnoch, Innerkip, Greenock, Kil-
malcolm, Houston, and Kilbarchan.  Werner long ago observed
that trap hills are well calculated, by reason of their naked sur-
faces and compact texture, to attract and condense vapour, and
from their numerous perpendicular rents, and the bed of clay on
which they usually rest, to conduct the condensed vapour to form
springs. In many parts of this county, the whin lies on the tran-
sition and other rocks in the form of mountain caps.  Workmen
in Lanarkshire term this " floating whin." At Dunrod hill the
old red sandstone is covered with trap; this is frequently the case
about Greenock, and in some places dikes of greenstone spread
over the same formation. Trap covers the coal formations in the
north of New Monkland, and here it is observed that the rains
penetrate the trap, and the springs all burst from the freestone
rocks below. This is perhaps one of the causes why Renfrew-
shire is so well replenished everywhere with lakes, rivers, streams,
and springs of water. Some time ago, a good deal of money was


