
284                        BANFFSHIRE.

   "Three of the sacrilegious chiefs were discovered amongst the
slain, by whose orders the church had been polluted; and I have
seen their skulls, grinning horrid and hollow, in the wall where
they had been fiXed, inside the church, directly east of the pulpit,
and where they have remained in their prison-house 800 years!
   "After the church became a neglected ruin, about twelve years
ago, these relics of antiquity (skulls) were pilfered bit and bit, by
some of the numerous visitors to the place, (one was subsequent-
ly recovered and placed, for greater security, in the Museum of
Lit. Inst. Banff, where it is still to be seen,) and nothing of them
now remains but the holes in the wall in which they were imbed-
ded."
   There is an old ruin in the farm of Pitgair, called Wallace Cas-
tle; with very thick walls, composed of stone and lime half-vitri-
fied, standing on a knoll, in a very romantic spot: but there is no
history or tradition known connected with it. The walls have the
same appearance as those of the old church, namely, that of great
antiquity.
   Land-owners.-The land of the parish of Gamrie is nearly
equally divided between the Earl of Fife and Francis Garden
Campbell, Esq. of Troup and Glenlyon, the former possessing
the west end of the parish and the latter the east. The only ex-
ceptions are two farms, Whitehall and Greenskairs, west of the
old church and den of Afforsk, which, being the only unentailed
property on the estate of Troup; were sold during Mr Garden's
minority some years ago ; Whitehill to Dr Smith in Banff, and
Greenskairs to Mr Al. W. Gardiner, who rents the farm and re-
sides in the mansion-house of Melrose, in the immediate neigh-
bourhood. Part of the Fife estates in the parish are in his Lord-
ship's own possession, and part of them in the hands of trustees,
terms of a deed left b his uncle, the late James Earl of Fife.
   Eminent Persons.-Several members of the ancient family of
the Gardens of Troup have distinguished themselves in the camp,
the Court, and Judges' hall. One of Mr Garden's predecessors,
Alexander Garden, Esq. of Troup, -was unanimously elected Mem-
ber of Parliament for the county of Aberdeen, in the middle of
the last century, during three successive parliaments. He was
succeeded by his brother, Lord Gardenstoun, one of the Lords
of Session, who was distinguished in his time as an eminent law-
yer a man of letters, and a gentleman of highly cultivated taste
and intellect. Several of the family also have served their coun-
                             3

