
274                        PERTHSHIRE.

this place.  It is of the size of a sixpence, having on one side a
head in high relief; and on the obverse three figures, the centre
one an eagle; the other two, as well as an inscription on each side,
are so much effaced as to be nearly illegible.
   In the month of August 1834, while a labourer of the name of
Donald Stewart, was employed in digging across the eastern ram-
part of the camp, for the purpose Of constructing a stone fence, he
discovered at some distance below the surface, three pots or kettles,
the largest of which broke in pieces while he was in the act of rais-
ing it from the ground. The other two measured 8 1/2 inches in
diameter, by 3 in depth, and 1O inches in diameter, by 4 1/2 in
depth, respectively, and were composed of a series of concentric
circles, fastened together with nails, the larger pot having a straight
handle 21 inches in length.  Along with these were deposited three
heads of spears or javelins, 7 inches in length, two of these still
having wood adhering to their sockets: a piece of flat iron or other
metal, 18 1/2 inches in length, having a striking resemblance to a
Roman sword preserved in the Museum of Antiquaries, Edinburgh,
except that the latter measures 25 inches in length; but as the
former appears to have been broken at one end, it must have been
at one time longer : three pair of bits, two pair of shears, 11 inches
long, the blades alone measuring 4 inches: a sort of spoon, the
handle of which measures 10 inches, including the diameter of the
mouth ;-this corresponds exactly with the descriptions and repre-
sentations given of the thuribulum. found in Pompeii: a beautiful
hinge of a yellowish metal, still covered with a slight coating of
what appears to be silver, 4 inches in length, carved, and in excel-
lent preservation: two implements resembling the wimble used by
carpenters for boring; a piece of flat iron about 2 1/2 feet long, bent
in the form of a pair of sugar-tongs, the edges at one end bent
inwards, so as almost to meet and form a socket, the other end be-
ing broken off.  Besides these, there were other articles, whose
uses were not very apparent.  Those, whose size would admit of
it, were found carefully packed in the largest kettle, (which, as al-
ready stated, was broken,) and a flat stone was placed over its mouth.
The discovery of thdse relies establishes one important fact,
namely, that cavalry lay in this encampment.
   The whole of the articles above described, except the hinge and
one of the spears, have found a secure asylum in the custody of John
Buchanan, Esq. Secretary to the Western Bank, Glasgow, whose
proiperty they have bdcome.
   While all traces of that power, which the mighty Roman cast


