
134                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ver, and it is not unlikely that this may be the true origin of the
name of the parish.
  Extent, &c.-The extent of the parish, in length, from east to
west, is 5 1/2 miles; its breadth from north to south 4 1/2 miles.
It contains 12.007 square miles. The figure is an irregular square.
  Boundaries.-It is bounded by the following parishes, viz. on the
north and north-east, by Dalmeny; north and north-west, Abercorn;
west, Ecclesmachen; and a detached portion of Dalmeny, named
Auldcathie; west and south-west, Uphall; south-west, Midcalder;
south, Kirknewton and Ratho; east, Corstorphine and Cramond.
There is a portion of the parish, entirely separate, named Liston
Shiels, lying on the slope of Pentland hills, which was annexed,
quoad sacra, many years ago, to the parish of Kirknewton. This
portion of the parish is bounded on the east and south-east by
Pennicuik; on the north and north-east, by Currie; on the west
by Midcalder; on the south by Linton, lying in the county of
Peebles.
  Meteorology.-The average temperature for the six years com-
mencing with 1832, is as under.

<TABLE>

     1832     1833    1834    1835     1836    1837
    45 1/2   44 2/8    46    44 1/2   43 1/4   43 2/3 *
  Climate.-The prevailing winds are west and south-west.
The climate may be termed good, compared with that of a large
portion of Scotland. There are no distempers peculiar to the dis-
trict, and the parish may be said to be decidedly healthy: but it
is worthy of remark, that in the small village of Newbridge, which
contained at the time just 65 inhabitants, situated eight miles from
Edinburgh, on the middle turnpike road to Glasgow, the morta-
lity, by cholera, in April 1832, was greater than in any part of the
county of Linlithgow, eleven deaths having occured in the course
of ten days
  Hydrography.-Springs of all sorts are abundant, flowing from
whinstone, limestone, gravel, or layers of sand: many of these are
highly impregnated with lime and iron, some with magnesia.
  The river Almond, which takes its rise in Lanarkshire, flows
through this parish, entering it at the south-western extremity,
and flowing in a circuitous course, of about 4 1/2 miles, to the vil-
lage of Kirkliston, which stands on a bank immediately overhang-
ing it. Its course from thence is to the north-eastward, about a
mile and a-half, when it passes into the parish of Cramond, and

<FOOTNOTE>This average is taken from daily observation in the morning and evening.


