
             50                         PERTHSHIRE.

             the stones and lime out of the citadel, they empower the treasurer
             to remove them, and to use them for repairing the south shore; and
             in the following year, in answer to a petition from David Murray,
             merchant, they granted him liberty to dig such stones as are under
             ground within the citadel, for erecting a dyeing work-house in the
             Castle gavel, and for other purposes.  They gave the same privi-
             lege to Isabel Orney, but no longer than to next Martinmas, they
             referring themselves to the council for the price.  Bailie Craig-
             dellie's son was allowed to carry away the stones which were left
             by his father above ground already digged.
               The place which the citadel occupied does not now `ppear, the
             trenches being filled up and the ground, levelled.  But there are
             persons alive who distinctly recollect both its appearance and po-
             sition in 1771.  On Mr Buist's map of the city and its environs,
             (1765,) preserved in the Antiquarian Museum, its position is dis
             tinctly laid down.  It was 266 feet on each side within the moat.
             On the north side the wall ran parallel to Grayfriars burying-
             ground westward across the present south road into the ground
             where Marshall Place stands.  The south wall was nearly as far.
             south as the aged thorn tree on the east of the road; and the east
             wall extended along the river side, and at a short distance from the
             -river.  For some time before the barracks were built, which was
             in 1793, a part of it was fitted up for cavalry.  At one time there
             was in it stabling for 200 horse, besides a riding-house, a tavern, a
             bakehousd, and other corresponding accommodation.*
                Perpetual Service.-" December 5, 1701.  Gift of Donald
             M'Donald, as a perpetual servant to the Earl of Tullibardine.
             "At Perth, the 5th day of December 1701 years, the Commnis-
             sioners of Justich`ry of the south district for securing the peace of
             the Highlands, considering that Donald Robertson, Alexander
             Stewart.  John Robertson, and Donald M'Donald, prisoners with-
             in the Tolbooth of Perth, and indicted and tried at this court, are,
             by verdict of the inquest, returned guilty of death, and that the
             Commissioners have changed their punishment of death to, perpe-
             tual servitude, and that the said pannels are at the Coures disposal,
             therefore, the said Commissioners have given and gifted the said
             Donald M' Donald, one of the said prisoners, as a perpetual ser-
             vant to the; Right Honourable John Earl of Tullibardine; recom-
             mending to his Lordship to cause provide a collar of brass, iron,
             of copper, which, by his sentence or, doom (whereof an extract is
             delivered to the magistrates of the said burgh of Perth,) is to be


