
36                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

brought by Crookshank, in his History of the State and Suffer-
ings of the Church of Scotland, against the people of the neigh-
bourbood, "that they were very cruel to the fleeing army of the
Covenanters, many of whom they killed, and others they took pri-
soners." The battle was not fought in the parish, but a little to
the eastward, so that those whom John Brown interred were most
likely some of the unfortunate individuals alluded to by Crook-
shank, as having been killed by the people of Penicuik in their
flight westwards.
   Antiquities.* ---Newhall House seems, in former times, to have
been the seat of a religious establishment of some note. Lying on
the confines of a very extensive and desolate waste, and on the line of
the principal route from Edinburgh to the south-west, from which at
this point there was a pass over the Pentlands to the north, it seems
to have been originally intended to serve as a hospice for the shel-
ter and refreshment of travellers, over what must have been at the
time a dreary tract of country. A farm house in its immediate
neighbourhood bears the name of the Spittal; and though at pre-
sent good roads and inns have rendered such institutions,unneces-
sary, the poor wayfarer is still held entitled to receive gratuitous-
ly the accommodation of a night's lodging at the Spittal of New-
hall. On the summit of the pass before alluded to, at the eleva-
tion of 1500 feet above the sea there are the remains of a Ro-
man. Catholic station. The cross which hallowed it has disap-
peared, but the stone which formed its pedestal still remains, with
two deep indentations, which have evidently been worn by the
knees of the many passing worshippers. Some workmen rudely
overthrew this stone last, year, and were rewarded by obtaining
possession of a few old copper coins. Brunstane Castle, on the
Esk upwards of two miles above Penicuik, is a ruin of conside-
rable extent and has evidently been a place of importance, It
would seem to have been built in the year 1580. Logan House is
another remnant of feudal times, which possesses rather an inte-
resting character from Jits romantic situation, enclosed as it is on
all sides by the Pentlands, and encircled by the rather classic
stream of the same name. It became a favourite hunting-tower
of the Scottish kings. It was on the adjacent grounds that the
celebrated match took place between the hounds of King Robert
Bruce, and Sir William St Clair of Roslyn, as more particularly

<FOOTNOTE>A very particular account of all that can pretend to the interest of antiquity, will
be found in the Appendix to the last Statistical Account.


