
		   LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.                    1103

of a parallelogram, 5 miles from east to west, by 3 1\2 miles from
north to south. To this there is added, on the north-west angle,
a projection, running to the Don, of two miles by one; and ano-
ther on the east side, extending south-east, of like dimensions.
This will give an area of about 21 square miles, or 13,440 impe-
rial acres, a result very nearly corresponding with actual survey.
It is bounded on the east by Alford, Tough, and Lumphanan
on the south, by Lumphanan and Coull; on the west, by Tarland
and Towie; and on the north, by Kildrummy and Alford.
         Surface.-The surface of the parish is much diversified. The
western boundary is the Soccoch, or Hill of Cushnie, rising to an
altitude of 2000 feet above the level of the sea; and from the
base of this hill, there are four mountainous ridges, running from
west to east, through the whole length of the parish, and as many
valleys, each watered by its own little stream. The crests of
these ridges are barren, and the cultivated ground lies on the
southern and northern slopes, and in the bottoms of the valleys.
The lowest parts of the valleys are 500 feet above the level of
the sea, and the cultivation is in some cases pushed up the accli-
vities of the hills, to the height of at least 500 feet more. The
prospect from the summit of the Hill of Cushnie well repays the
toil of the ascent. To the south are seen the fertile vale of Cro-
mar, with the lofty chain of the Grampians beyond, among which
Mount Keen and Lochnagar rise preeminent; to the west, Mor-
ven and Benavon; to the north-west, the windings of the Don
through the valley of Towie, and Bel-rinnes in the distance; to
the north, the Buck of the Cabrach and the Tap of Noth, with
the upper part of Strathbogie; and to the north-east and east,
the vale of Alford, highly cultivated and richly wooded, with its
bounding mountains, the district of the Garioch, and the flat
country extending even to the Buchan coast. Various other
points afford pleasing, though much less extensive views; and to
look down from the Hill of Corse on the south, the Hill of Crai-
gievar on the east, or the Hill of Fowlis near the centre of the
parish, on a summer afternoon, when the heat has been tempered
by a refreshing shower, and the soft light of the setting sun re-
poses on the uplands grav with heath, the slopes green with corn
and grass, and the hollows sp`rkling with their winding rivulets,
gives a lively idea of "a land of hills and valleys, that drinketh
water of the rain of Heaven."
         Meteoroloqy.-A thermometer has been registered at 9 o'clock
morning and evening, since the 1st January 1842; and the direc-


