
196                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

varying from bright-red to gray and streaked, and sometimes pear-
ly white, as at Burnswark. In this last are nodules of a dark-
brown colour, from the presence of oxide of iron. This range,
however, though bordering on Tundergarth, is in the parishes of
Middlebie and Hoddam. Peat abounds in the upper district of the
parish; but in the lower district it has of late years been very scarce.
	The soil is various; but where cultivated is generally fertile,
though in some places rather hard, thin, and rocky. There is
very little holm or table-land. Towards the hills, the soil is cold,
with a till or gravelly subsoil, and indurated clay. The greater
part of the lands are much exposed to west-northwest and easter-
ly winds; and, rising abruptly from the Milk, have very little shelter.
More than one-half of the surface consists of fertile sheep-walks.
	A trial was made for lead some years ago on the farm of Hazzle-
berry, and a level was driven some distance into the hill. There
were indications of the ore in a vein of iron mica; but the search
was not successful, and was finally abandoned. A search was also
made for lead many years ago in Grange Fell, with similar suc-
cess. Another trial was made in the bottom of a very deep glen
on the ertate of Crawthwaite, the property of George Graham,
Esq. by a level which remains still open, or was so lately. Anti-
mony was actually found. Some fine specimens of the ore were
for many years in the possession of the late Thomas Johnstone,
Esq. of Grange. It is probable the ore was not found in sufficient
quantity to warrant the expense of farther search. The strata of
the whole glen and hills on each side are transition-slate and clay-
slate, the latter greatly abounding: the debris of it covers the
slopes of the mountains. It is to be regretted that so few trials
have been made in this part of the country, especially for coals,
which are believed by all to exist in abundance. Were coals found
in the neighbourbood of the many lime quarries, the price of lime
would be much reduced. They are at present brought from the
north of England by sea, and are very dear. The man who dir-
covers coal in this part of the country will be entitled to be ranked
among the benefactors of his countrymen.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Accounts of the Parish.-There is ` document in the possession
of the family of Grange, containing an account very illustrative of
border manners, at the period to which it refers. *

<FOOTNOTE>From this document it appears, that at the funeral of Thomas Johnstone of
Purbsiehall, which was some time prior to 1629, a fight took place between the



