
                      KILLEARNAN.                          67                         KILLEARNAN.                           67

especial manner, from the encouragement which the same gentle-
man gives to strangers expelled from various parts of the High-
lands, settle on his portion of the late Mill-Bui commonty, and
on other woodlands on his property of Tore,--where they are ac-
commodated on liberal terms, and where it is expected they may
make for themselves, in a few years, pretty comfortable settle-
ments.  Those who first settle on these parts of the Kilcoy pro-
perty after  I became minister of this parish are now able to keep
a horse, a cow, with a follower, and a few sheep.
  
     The number of families in the parish is                                 324
                of inhabited houses,                                         298
                of uninhabited houses,                                         4
                of houses building,                                            4
     The average number of marriages for the last ten years may be from  8 to 10 
                        of baptisms from                                16 to 20
                        of deaths,                                            12
     There are three persons blind in the parish: none deaf or dumb,
The language of the natives is Gaelic; and the greatest portion of
the inhabnitants can receive religious instruction through no other
medium.  The Gaelic, however, may be considered as on the decline.
Nearly the whole of the young people understand and speak Eng-
lish well.  And of late years. and in consequence of the new system
of farming introduced, converting large tracts of land into one farm,
strangers have come amongst us, who do not understand Gaelic,
and must  therefore bring along with them from other parts ser-
vants who can understand them.  The inhabitants are cleanly in
their habits--industrious and sober--religiously disposed--moral
in their conduct--teachable and tractable--punctual in their at-
tendance of public worship--religiously observing the Sabbath day,
believing the Divine authority of the Bible, and taking it for the
rule of their faith and practice.  We have a few solitary exceptions,
but they are few.  There is no temptation to poaching; and smug-
gling is almost entirely abandoned.
     Within the last three years, there has been but one illegitimate
birth in the parish
                           IV.--INDUSTRY.
     The distribution of males among the several employments is as
follows: farmers, 15; cottars, 119; labourers, 64; employed in
agriculture in all stations, 155; in trade and manufactures, 60;
1 auctioneer or appraiser; 6 blacksmiths; 5 masons; 7 carpen-
ters; 1 wheel-wright, above eighty years of age, still found work-
ing at his turning-loom; 6 sawers; 2 millers; 6 innkeepers, of
retailers of beer and whisky; 16 shoe and brogue-makers; 2 shop.






