
                           BALFRON.                        293

formed a connection with the Buchanans of Carstone in Killearn
parish, who had just then built the Deanston Cotton Works,
near Doune, in Perthshire; and with these gentlemen, in the year
1789, he built the cotton-mill in this parish, known in trade by
the Ballindalloch Cotton Works. Mr Archibald Buchanan, the
younger of the two enterprising and ingenious brothers, the part-
ners of Mr Dunmore, had been taught the practical parts of
cotton-spinning at Cromford in Derby, under the well known
Arkwright, the original inventor of cotton-spinning by means of
machinery. In the year 1789, cotton-spinning was, under this
company, introduced into this parish, and from that time, down to
the year 1793, was successfully carried on by them. But in the
year 1783, Messrs James and Archibald Buchanan transferred
the property to Messrs James Finlay and Company, merchants,
Glasgow, who still continue to be proprietors, and who, at their
several works at Deanston, Catrine, and Balfron, give constant
employment to 2500 hands. The works at Balfron are driven by a
stream from the Endrick, which, in dry seasons, is kept nearly uniform
by water from a reservoir of 33 Scotch acres, constructed about thirty
years ago, in Dundaff Moor, one of the oldest estates of the Montrose
family, and contiguous to the ruins of the castle of Sir John De
Graham, the friend of Wallace. This stream falls on a water-
wheel of almost 30 horse power, which drives 1,2,000 mule spindles
with their preparations. Two hundred and fifty-eight hands or
thereby, and these chiefly females, are now employed at the
works. It is understood to be the first cotton work in Scotland
at least, in which female spinners were exclusively employed.
   Wages.--The company pay weekly, and generally on a Thursday,
the wages due to their workers. These vary for spinners, from 10s.
to 13s. per week; and for piecers from 2s. to 4s. according to the
work done. These wages are apparently low, and are certainly
much lower than are paid for the same quantity of work done in
Glasgow, where a spinner is paid from 23s. to 30s. per week.
Perhaps the difference is not easily accounted for. Provisions of
all sorts are much the same here as in town; dress much the
same. The hours for working are just as long. The only thing
which certainly is lower, is house rent; but we	are far from being
sure that this will make up for the difference in wages. Origi-
nally, there were employed at this mill, 400 persons, young and
old. The difference in point of numbers can be readily accounted
for, by the improvements introduced into machinery. For ex-


