
	926				FIFESHIRE.

	breasts. She also fell a victim to her generous compassion, and
	the Prince perished miserably. Albany gave out that he died of
	a dysentery, but the people were convinced that he had been
	foully murdered. A public inquiry was made into the matter,
	but a jury, composed of the creatures of Albany, were sure to re-
	turn a verdict of acquital. Their report is a partial and con-
	strained testimony to Albany's innocence, and after it was re-
	turned, any further rumours unfavourable to him or to his friends
	were forbidden by a public proclamations,- circumstance which
	fully accounts for the silence of Winton* and others upon the
	subject. The Prince was buried at the Abbey of Lindores,
	where the curious may still see the stone coffin in which, it is said,
	his remains were enclosed.
	  It is difficult to ascertain exactly the site of the Castle of Falk-
	land. We are disposed to believe that it stood on the mound a little
	to the north of the present edifice. The palace was begun pro-
	bably by James II., and completed by James V. "The part now
	remaining consists of two distinct portions of building in different
	styles of architecture. The eastmost portion is two stories in
	height, and in the monastic style. On each floor there are six
	windows, square topped, and divided by mullions into two lights.
	Between the windows the front is supported by buttresses enriched
	with niches, in which statues (representing the Stewart family)
	were placed, the mutilated remains of which are still to be seen,
	and terminating in ornamental pinnacles, which rise considerably
	above the top of the wall. The western part of this front of the
	palace is in the castellated style, and of greater height than the
	other. It is ornamented with two round towers, between which is
	a lofty archwav, which forms the entrance to the court-yard be-
<FOOTNOTE>Wynton says, O.C. vol. ii. p. 397, ed. Lond. 1795,
	Schir Davy, Duke of Rothesay,
	Of March the sevyn and twenty'd day,
	Yauld his saule till his Creatoure,
	His cors til halowit sepulture.
	In Lundoris his body lyis,
	His spirite in-till Paradys.
	  Wynton does not mention the circumstances under which the Prince died, pro-
	bably for the reason mentioned in the text.
	  It is universally admitted that James V. made splendid additions to the palace
	for his initials and the date 1537 appear upon the walls; but we cannot ascertain
	which of his predecessors began the structure. it appears, from a statement made
	by Beatoun of Creich, who had "the keeping of the palice of Falkland," to the Scot-
	tish Parliament in 1525, that it had then fallen into disrepair,-being "riven, and
	the thak yrof brokin." This circumstance shows that the palace, even at that period,
	was an old building. We suspect it was begun by James II., by whom a charter was
	granted at Falkland in the year 1446. Pinkerton says, (Vol. ii. p. 424,) James IV.
	improved or enlarged the Castle of Falkland, but he mentions no authority.


