
			     CRAIG.                       251

services in the Indian Empire, and to whose memory a monument
has been erected by the Supreme Government in India, was the
second son of Archibald Scott, Esq. of Usan. A brief memoir of
his life has been published at Calcutta, by Major White, author
of " Considerations on the state of British India."
   Land-owners.-- The present land-owners are, Horatio Ross,
Esq. M. P., proprietor of Rossie, 2471 imperial acres; Patrick
Arkley, Esq. a minor, proprietor of Dunninald, 721; George
Keith, Esq. proprietor of Usan, 862; Sir James Carnegie, Bart.
proprietor of Baldovie, 98; and also of Pittarris, 60; undivided
common, about 757.
   Parochial Registers.--The kirk-session records commence in
the year 1653; and, though not voluminous, are regularly kept
from that period, with the exception of a blank between 1694 and
1714.*/f
   Antiquities.--The ancient kings of Scotland possessed a right
to a cadger road, from the shore of Usan to the cross of Forfar,
the breadth of which was to be the length of a mill wand; and
about seventy years ago the proprietor of Usan claimed a part of
Monrithmont moor, equivalent to the extent of the said cadger
road through that moor. A stripe of land, of about 30 acres along
the shore of Usan, is said by tradition to have been the residence
of the king's cadger. Craig, or Rossie, appears to have been an
ancient feudal barony, as a field behind the house is still called
Lawfield; and as an adjoining farm-steading is still called Balgove,
that is, the withie, or prison-house; and a rising ground on the pro-
perty, Govanhill, the withie-hill, or place of execution.
   The castle of Craig, on the northern side of the parish, fre_
quently mentioned in the chronicles of Scotland, appears to have
been a place of considerable strength. A part of the building,
still occupied as a dwelling-house, bears the date of 1634; but a
square tower and gateway, still standing in a very compact condi-
tion, bear the aspect of great antiquity. In the immediate vicini-
ty of Boddin, on the south coast, may be seen the remains, or ra-
ther the site of an old castle, which still retains the name of Black
Jack, supposed to have been so named in comparison with Red-
castle on the opposite side of the bay.--" At the extremity of the
parish, to the east, where the Southesk falls into the sea, there

<FOOTNOTE>The register of baptisms commences in 1657, and that of marriages in 1661;
but in the former there is a blank from 1700 to 1714; in the latter from 1662 to
1714; in both from 1717 to 1723.


