
                                 BEATH.                            177


The number of families is 180, containing each, of individuals, on
an average, somewhat more than 5; a fact, perhaps, rather uncom-
mon; and to be accounted for by early marriages, chiefly among the
colliers, who earn higher wages than any other class of labourers,
There are 4 houses at present in progress of building; all the rest,
amounting to 161, are inhabited. The increase of population is
owing to the additional number of hands employed at the collieries,
and to a system of feuing lately introduced.
   The annual average of births for the last seven years, appearing from
the parish records, was 15; of marriages, 5 ; and of deaths, 13.
But, as the deaths of all who are interred in the churchyard are
recorded, although some of them are from other parishes, and as
some parents neglect to have the births of their children register-
ed, the exact number of births and deaths cannot be ascertained.
   In general the people enjoy the advantages and comforts suited
to their stations in life. In dress and the decoration of their per-
sons, they keep pace with the times. They are, upon the whole,
moral and religious. There have been, as there still are, several
instances of longevity among them.
   During the last three years there have been 4 illegitimate births
in the parish.
                           IV-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-In this parish, there is not much land that is not
capable of being rendered arable; and by far the greater part has
been at one period under the plough. Of late years a good deal
has been done in the way of reclaiming waste land, and improv-
ing such as had been neglected by bad husbandry; and the result
has been a fair remuneration.

Number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish, which are either
  cultivated or occasionally in tillage,     .      .        .                 5270
Number of acres which never have been cultivated, and which remain con-
  stantly waste, or in pasture,     .        .        .        .        .       516
Number of acres that might, with a profitable application of capital, be ad-
  ded to the cultivated land of the parish, whether that land were afterwards
  to be kept in occasional tillage or in permanent pasture,    .        .       394
Number of acres under wood, whether natural or planted,        .        .       530

  Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, is as follows:

Produce of all kinds, .             .        .        .       L. 5479  0   0
Potatoes, turnips, cabbages, &c.    .        .        .          2040  0   0


  <FOOTNOTE>Although all this has been at one period in tillage, a considerable portion of it
been long in pasture, and, as such, is now of inferior quality.
  If the spirit for improvement at present manifested by the tenantry does not
relax, all the improvable land will, in a few years, have been under crop.
  FIFE.
					M


