
                               SOUTHDEAN.              101

times long past, than even at present.  This may have been ow-
ing to the lower ground having been more wooded and marshy,
which would naturally constrain the people to cultivate the higher
districts.
     The number of acres under cultivation at this time may be reck-
oned at 3000.  There are 500 acres under wood, natural and
planted, principally pine.
     Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land, per acre, is
about 18s. The average rent of grazing, per ox or cow, 30s., and
for ewe or full-grown sheep, 5s., pastured for the year.  Valued
rent of the parish is L. 6362; real, L. 6690, 9s. 6d.  There are
twenty larrger and eighteen small tenants.
     Husbandry.--The general duration of leases are from five to
nineteen years.  A good deal of wood has been planted of late,
and considerable improvement has been made in farm-houses and
the builfing of stone fences. Wheast is now pretty generally sown,
especially in the lower parts of the parish; and turnip husbandry
has been greatly extended since the beginning of this century.  It
has of late years been much injured by a disease, which throws out
excresxences from the root, which entirely destory the turnip.  No
effectual remedy has hitherto been discovered.
     Live-Stock.--Since the close of the last century, considerable
improvement has been made in the management of sheep. The
land has drained; plantations and tills have been reared for
shelter, whilst farmers have viedwith one another in selecting the
best ewes and rams from their own flocks, or from those of their neigh-
bours, from which they may breed. About twenty-eight years ago,
a few long-wooled sheep were brought nto the parish.  They have
increased with the extension of tillage, and now amountto a least
1600.  There are about 15,100 of Cheviot sheep.  In the year
1810, the current price of laid wool was L.2, 6s, per stone of 24
lbs.  One large clip was sold at L.2, 10s.; the same parcel has seve-
ral times since been sold at less than one-fourth of that sum. Dur-
ing the war, well salved wool was of as much value as white;--of
course, all the Cheviot sheep were then smeared. with the peace,
a change took place, and almost every person left off smearing till
two years ago, when demand for laid wool revivng, induced
various individuals to have again recourse to tar and butter. Wool
was much is request in 1831. White brought from L.1, 3s. to
L.1, 7s, and laid from 18s. 6d. to L.1, 1s. per stone, which was
nearly double the price obtained for the latter sort in 1830.  A
large proportion of the wool grown in this quarter in now manufac-


