
     of Dry'sdale.

40 births, upwards of 30 deaths, and 12 marriages annual-
ly.  Lockerbie being a market and poet town, and the most
noted place of the parish, merits a particular description.
It is so called, as many other places on the English border,
and up and down Annandale, Eskdale and Nithsdale, of the
same termination, because the term Bie, being Celtic, sig-
nifies a "station or place of strength."  Lockerbie had
been a place or tower of safety, situated between and
almost surrounded by two lochs or lakes, now drained; the
one, on the east side of the intervening ridge, is converted
into a rich bog meadow, in the bottom of which is a deep
bed of shell marl, but, on account of the stagnating water,
difficult to be wrought; the other, on the west side, is
partly meadow and partly moss, lying also on marl, very
deep.  The town consists of one long street from N. to S.
in extent about half a mile, and another, at a right angle
to the E. about a quarter of a mile.  There are about 150
inhabited houses; 2 fairs, and 10 markets yearly.  The
fairs are at Lammas and Michaelmas, when moderate
tolls are levied by the proprietor, amounting only to about
L. 16 Sterling a year.  At the 10 markets all are free.
During the course of the year there are sold for England up-
wards of 50,000 yards of linen and woollen cloth, and at
the Lammas fair about 20,000 lambs partly to be winter-
ed in the neighbourhood, but principally for England, and
all the other articles usually fold at the ordinary markets
in their proper seasons*.  About 60 years since, there

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Lammas fair is upon the 2 d of August O. S excepting Saturday,
Sunday, or Monday, and in that case, on the Tuesday following; the
Michaelmas fair is upon the 2 d of October O. excepting Saturday,
Sunday, or Monday, and in that case, on the Tuesday following  The
10 markets are on the 2 d Thursday O. in January, February.  March,
April, May.  Third Thursday in June, called the midsummer market.
The next is 14 days after the Michaelmas fair, if on a Thursday, or other-

</UNREADABLE>


