
			AYR.                               21

was built near the mouth of the river by William the Lion, be-
fore he granted his charter, erecting it into a burgh. This is
distinctly stated in the charter itself, novo meo castello de Are.
While the English forces occupied Ayr during the usurpation of
Scotland by Edward I., they no doubt held possession of this
castle also; but probably, from its not being sufficient to contain
them, they appear to have erected a temporary barrack or encamp-
ment at the south-east side of the town, called the Barns of Ayr,
to which Sir William Wallace set fire, he and his followers having
retired to a neigbbouring hill, since called Burn or Barnweil, to sur-
vey the conflagration they had occasioned. This remains a tradi-
tion to the present day. This castle is mentioned in Scotch his-
tory, as having been burned by King Robert Bruce in 1298, to
prevent its falling again into the possession of an English army
who were marching westward to attack him, whom he did not find
himself strong enough to encounter. It seems to have been in con-
sequence of this demolition, when he assembled his barons, and
dignified clergy at Ayr sometime after, to settle the order of suc-
cession to the throne, that the meeting was held in the church of St
John. It was at this meeting, it is supposed, that the charter of
constitution was granted to the barony of Newton-upon-Ayr, a band
of the inhabitants of that place having fought under his banner, at
the celebrated battle of Bannockburn. No traces now remain of the
castle of Ayr:--but it probably stood at the east corner or bastion of
Cromwell's Fort, not far from the academy. There are various
other notices of Ayr to be met with in the annals of Scotland, but
none of much historical importance, or that properly falls within
the province of this account. We shall therefore proceed to exhibit
a view of its present state with respect to improvements and public
buildings.
	Improvements.--Few places have undergone a greater change
for the better than this town has done, within the last twenty years.
During that time, it has made greater advances in architectural
and other improvements, than it had done perhaps during a century
before. As a proof of this, we shall extract the following account
of the state in which the town was found by the writer of it, at the
time the work was published in which it is contained; and from
personal recollections we do not think it exggerated. We quote
from the Edinburgh Encyclopedia. "The streets are ill lighted,
wretchedly paved, and very indifferently cleaned. Side pave-
ments of flag-stones for foot-passengers might be mentioned among


