
34                          AYRSHIRE.

for one-half more of personal worth and intellectual power and ac-
complishment, than what appeared in him outwardly. He had the
nicest sense of honour, and the most refined moral delicacy of any
man we have ever known, and withal he possessed such a fund of
native good humour, kindliness of disposition, and urbanity of man-
ners, as rendered him the most agreeable of companions in private
life. He was the author of several able articles in the Edinburgh
Encyclopaedia, and other works of a similar kind, and his Elements
of Theoretic Mechanics, which contain the substance of part of his
lectures, are used as a text-book in the University of Cambridge.
He was born in the parish of Carsphairn in 1773, received the
early part of his education in the parish school of Tynron in Dum-
fries-shire, and pursued his studies at Glasgow University with so
much success, and with so high a reputation, that he was appointed to
lecture for Dr Brown in the Natural Philosophy class, when he
was rendered unfit for the duty himself. In 1799, he was chosen
rector of Ayr Academy, removed to the Natural Philosophy chair
in St Andrew's in 1809, and died there on the 17th of February
1837, at the age of 64.
	John Fergusson.--Besides the above eminent men who have been
connected with Ayr, John Fergusson, Esq. of Doonholm, deserves
to be mentioned, as having been one of the most enterprising and
enlightened British merchants of his day, in Calcutta, where he
made a handsome fortune, and established a mercantile house,
which long continued to perpetuate his name, and to be distinguish-
ed over the whole of India, for the extent and magnitude of its
dealings and speculations. The benefactions of this gentleman to
this parish, we shall afterwards have occasion to notice. His de-
scendant, James Fergusson, Esq. of Monkwood, is at present one
of the Principal Clerks of the Court of Session, and author of De-
cisions of the Scotch Consistorial Court, where he formerly pre-
sided as a Judge.
	Antiquities--Ayr, though a place very ancient, has few monu-
ments of antiquity to boast of. There are some, however, that pos-
sess considerable interest, and which we shall now proceed to notice.
	St John's Church--.The burgh or parish church was dedicated
to  St John the Baptist, and is understood to have been founded
in the twelfth century. Its form was that of a cross, the nave or
body being nearly double the length of the transept; and at the
eastern end of the nave, there was a Gothic window of elegant form,
and richly ornamented. Of this venerable Gothic structure, no-
                           3


