
656                         LANARKSHIRE.

a man says, "Do you think I am an infidel?" a frequent interro-
gatory among the handicrafts, he merely means he is no fool, but
knows what he is about.  The no less common expression, "will
you never deval?" merely means, will you never give over.  In such
a concourse of strangers as now prevails here, there are many
doubtful or unintelligible characters.  These are uniformly termed
"nomalistic characters."  Compellment is also a common word
for forcing or compelling one against his will, and combustibles is
most erroneously applied to the filthy accumulcations of animal, ve-
getable, and earthy matters in ditches and covered drains, which
carry away the refuse from their dwellings.
   There is now little or no poaching, and no smuggling.

                           V.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The parish of Old Monkland greatly excels the
New Monkland in fertility of soil, and in salubrity of climate.  In-
deed, the soil here is in all respects very superior to the soil
above the coal-fields in other parts of the country.  The land very
seldom attains any very considerable elevation, and in most in-
stances it is level, and generally slopes with a gentle declivity to
the Clyde.  The principal uncultivated places are Gartgill moss,
Lochwood, Drumpellier, and Coatsmuir or Muiryhall, in all about
1500 acres.  Towards the north, however, where the coal crops
out, the peat mosses come in in great abundance.  The arable
soil in parish is of three kinds.  That along the banks of the
Clyde and Calder is a strong clay, but, from high cultivation in many
places, now resembles a good loam.  This soil produces luxuriant
crops of grain, particularly of wheat, and yields sometimes from
12 to 16 bolls per acre.  The middle of the parish is a light
sand, affording excellent crops of oats and potatoes. Towards
the north, as already stated, are extensive tracts of moss.  The
farmers in this district have peculiar facilities for procuring lime
and manure by the canal and railways.  In former times, the or-
dinary rotation of crops was to turn up before oats or peas; then
summer-fallow and wheat; then peas and beans; and then oats
and grass weeds.  About the west end of the parish there is now
a rotation of four years, viz. potatoes, wheat, hay, and oats.  Some
pattern's year or two between the hay and oats, or have turnips
instead of potatoes.  Turnips yield from 25 to 30 tons per acre;
30 tons is the average, but 40 are often obtained; potatoes 45
bolls per acre, or even 7 pecks per fall, which is at the rate of 70
bolls per acre.  In other parts of the parish as about Gartsherrie,


