
780                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

sequence of greater attention paid of late to their ilmprovement;
and the store-farmers are at considerable pains to improve the
breed of their sheep, particularly as to the quantity and quality of
their wool.  But the small tenants, who are allowed to keep only
a few sheep, in proportion to their rent and the extent of bill pas-
ture in their respective districts, pay little attention to their im-
provement in any respect.
   The general character of the husbandry hitherto pursued is not
much to be commended.  The specialties which distinguish it are
over-cropping, want of proper attention to cleaning, liming, and
dunging the ground under green crop, and a disregard to any re-
gular rotation.  However, the more slotbful, and indolent part of
the tenantry are beginning to follow the example of the more ac-
tive and industrious, old prejudices and practices are giving way to
conviction, a seven shift rotation is becoming, more and more ge-
neral, and an evident change to the better has been gradually tak-
ing place since smuggling was suppressed.
   About 312 imperial acres have been brought under tillage in
the course of the last ten years, by trenching and draining: em-
banking has been carried on to a considerable extent; but irriga-
tion, unless in some rare instances, has not been attempted.
The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
   The state of the farm-buildings in general is above mediocrity;
but sufficieDt enclosures, though becoming more and more com-
mon, are still wanting in some parts of these parishes.
   At present, the main obstacles to improvement seem to be, the
low prices of grain, cattle, sheep, and every sort of farm produce,
the distance from markets and sea-ports, and a general scarcity of
money.
   There are no mines in these parishes, nor any quarries, except
two of limestone, and these are wrought by persons who sell the
limestone, to those who want it, at 6d. per cart load.  Granite,
without quarrying, is found above round, in quantities sufficient
for building, and every necessary purpose.
   Produce.-The yearly average gross amount and value of raw
produce raised in these parishes, for seven years preceding 1833,
may be stated as under:

<TABLE>
   Imp. acres.								Value
     1129 under oats, produce 3669 qrs., at L.1, 1Os. 9d. per qr.,
	     with fodder,					           L.5641   1   9
      472 under bear or big, produce 1652 qrs., at L.1, 14s. per
	     qr. with fodder,					       2808   8   0


