
620                         FORFARSHIRE.


in that state at present we have stated at 3500. As a great quantity
of land, however, has been improved and brought into a state of cul-
tivation within the last forty years, much of the inferior land, for-
merly arable, is at present allowed to lie as permanent pasture.
Owing to the high prices realized from cattle, this is not thought
disadvantageous to the farmer; but undoubtedly a very great
deal of land in all parts of the parish could profitably be culti-
vated, provided the necessary expenses of improvement were in
part defrayed by the proprietor.
  The real rental, at the date of the last Account, is stated
to be L.1600; the present rental is about L.4123. Thus, while
the number of arable acres has ostensibly remained nearly the
same, the rent of land has increased nearly 300 per cent. Though
this is partly owing to the profits of the grazier, it is chiefly to be
accounted for by the introduction of a superior mode of husbandry,
and by increased industry and enterprise on the part of the te-
nantry.
   For the last six years, owing to the unfavourable nature of the
seasons, the farmer has sustained a very considerable loss by his
grain crops. The high price of cattle has alone enabled him to
retain his independence and hold his lease. Should this source
of profit fall much in value, proprietors will certainly not realize
their present rents. The climate of the parish might be much
improved, and the value of many fields greatly increased by the
shelter afforded by planting. The conveyance of farm produce
might be greatly facilitated, and an advantage might be got of fa-
vourable markets by a better mode of managing the roads, wbich
in winter especially, are almost impassable.
   The number of cottages should be much increased, and a few
acres of inferior land annexed to them. Examples might be pro-
duced to show that, by an outlay of about L.30 on the building of
the necessary houses, a rent of about L.6 might be obtained from
six acres of land, the value of which at present is very small.

  December 1842.


