
   			CONTIN.				239

  The number of deaths cannot be ascertained from the want of a
register.

<TABLE>
	Widowers above 50 years of age,		 -	 13
	Unmarried women above 45 years,		  -	 44
	Number of families in the parish in 1834,   -	437

  The number of proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50
and upwards, is 9.
  Gaelic, being the vernacular tongue, is the languag chiefly
spoken; but, from the general diffusion of knowledge by means of
schools, English is acquired by a large portion of the rising gene-
ration.
  Habits and Character of the People.-Poverty having tended
greatly to crush the social feelings of the people, they enjoy in a
very limited degree, the pleasures and advantages of society; yet
they are in general not dissatisfied with their condition. The ge-
neral character of the peasantry merits the most honourable testi-
mony. It is that of a religious and moral people. Wherever the
contrary appears, it may be traced to the influence of bad example,
or to the mismanagement of those into whose hands it has been
their misfortune to fall. Here, as throughout the Highlands, the
native inhabitants discover great natural acuteness. Their dispo-
sition is ingenuous; and when treated with kindness, they are tract-
able, and grateful. Sincerity of friendship, ardour of attachment,
and strict fidelity to those who repose confidence in them, continue
to characterize them. In their dealings they are just, in their
callings industrious, in their manners obliging, disinterested in hos-
pitality, and kind and generous towards their brethren in distress,
With few exceptions, they are of sober habits, and give regular at-
tendance upon public worship.
  The Highlanders are grossly calumniated, when represented as
inactive and indolent. Let the proper encouragement be given to
them, and it will be found that, however far they may surpass, they
are certainly not inferior to any of their countrymen, in sagacity,
ability, and inclination to work. It is true that in Contin, as well
as in various other parishes, the population is seen at present under
many disadvantages. The few that remain of the old race are
greatly reduced in circumstances: and those who have known the
noble-minded people of these districts in better days,-who are
competent to judge, and who institute a comparison now, will
readily, yet sorrowfully subscribe to the sentiment of the poet:

	"A bold peasantry, their country's pride,
	When once destroyed can never be supplied."


