
536                          PERTHSHIRE.

The earliest harvest for the last seventeen ears being 22d of
July 1826, and the latest September 16th 1823. This statement
is the best practical account of the climate of Kilmany and its
neighbourbood.
   Geology and Mineralogy- On these subjects, it is enough here
to state, that the principal range of hills to the north of Kilmany is
composed of trap or whinstone. There are various kinds of this rock.
There is a dark blue species on Kinnear and East Kilmany, which
is hard, and brittle, and with difficulty stands the operations of the
hammer. It is in a solid body, and must be separated from the parent
mass by gunpowder. There is another species of this rock on
West Kilmany. It is equally bard, its colour is lighter blue, and
its grain considerably coarser and more tenacious. It is difficult to
work; but, by hard labour, it can be cut into any size and form, for
building. It appears in the quarry in great blocks,-separated
from one another, by a thin coating of a substance like yellow ochre.
Judging from an imperfect examination, the quarry behind Mount-
quhanie, is of the same description. On the top and face of the hills,
when it has been long exposed to the weather, it assumes the aspect
of rotten rock. On the lower range of hills, such as are behind West
Kilmany farm house, it is not in solid masses, which need to be blown;
but can be separated into comparatively small pieces, by the com-
mon pick or lever. From this species of trap, some of the roads, in
the neighbourhood are repaired. At Hill-Cairnie and Myre-Cair-
nie, at the south-west of the parish, the bills assume a different
appearance, although they are of the trap species. The rocks, of
which they are composed, are equally bard with the trap, on the
north range; but the colour, instead of a dark blue, consists of a
dirty white, mixed with red; they are well adapted for coarse build-
ing, for dikes, and drains, and for metal to the roads. When
properly chosen and shaped, they look tolerably well for buildings
of higher pretensions. The wbole of Mr Russell of Hill-Cairnie's
steading. which is the most substantial in the parish with the exception
of the corner stones, linters, and skews, is built of this stones
There are various other kinds of the trap family scattered amongst
the hills.
   Zoolgy, &c.-In addition to those birds which are common
throughout the country, the pheasant has been partially introduced
amongst us but, from the want of cover, they are by no means
numerous, and, from the same cause we will not become so. The
parish is visited bY the common and larger snipe and occa-


