
     Of West Kilbride.

strata of the rock of which it is composed, are distinctly
marked by nature.  Viewed at a distance, they seem to lie
nearly horizontal; but, upon a nearer approach, they appear
to incline to an angle of some elevation.  They begin from
the water's edge, receding backwards from, and rising one a-
bove another to the top, like the steps of a stair.  Upon the
S. side, are a few dwelling-houses, and an old Gothic castle,
situated directly opposite to another of the same kind upon
the main land.  Concerning the antiquity of this castle, no-
thing can now be learned, and no date or inscription, from
which it might be ascertained, has ever been discovered.  It
seems to have been a place of some strength.  It is surround-
ed by a rampart and a fosse, over which has been a draw-bridge.
It was surprised and burned by Cromwell's soldiers.  The
island was then in the possession of the family of Eglintoune,
which it has continued to be ever since.  In this island, are
no fewer than 7 caves*.
   There are yet to be seen, the ruins of a very ancient chapel,
or place of worship, said to have been dedicated to Saint Vey,
who lies buried near it; probably, it was a dependency of I.
Colm Kill.
   Proceeding to the main land, we meet with another old
castle, called Portincross, directly opposite, as has been ob-
served, to the one upon the Little Isle.  Of the history of this,
we are able to trace almost as little as the other; but, from
its, appearance, it bears visible marks of great antiquity.  It

<FOOTNOTE>

*Two of them are very remarkable.  One of these, is a square room
of 32 feet, so high in the roof, that a person may stand upright, and seems to
be the work of art.  The other, which is the largest of the whole, penetrates
so far, as never yet to have been explored.  The certainty of meeting with
damps and mephitick air, renders such an attempt dangerous, if not impracti-
cable.  Concerning the use of these caves, tradition conveys nothing certain,
and the legendary tales of superstition respecting them, are too ridiculous to
deserve notice.


