
     Of Dalry

situated on a rising ground, with a commanding prospect to
the S. and an extensive view to the N. E.  It is almost
surrounded by waters, and these run in their different di-
rections, so near the village, that when extraordinary rains
fall, and waters swell, the village, when viewed at a distance,
puts on the appearance of an island; but from its elevated
situation, is never, at any time in danger, even from the
greatest floods*.  The soil varies much, according to the
different situations of the grounds.  All the flat grounds lying
along the water of Garnock, are in general a deep loamy soils,
with a dry bottom, and from their being often overflowed
with water, they are evidently enriched by the slime and
mud left upon them; and the farmer has often experienced
good crops from this very circumstance alone.  Trench plough-
ing, or hand trenching of such ground, would assuredly turn
out to advantage, as the soil below seems equally good, and
with a small help of dung or lime, would soon become better
than the upper soil, that has been long cultivated.  But a

     M 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Waters.-There are 3 waters that run near the village, Caaff, Rye, and
Garnock.  All these take their rise from the high moor lands, at several miles dist-
ance from the village, consequently they are soon filled, run with great rapidity,
and are soon emptied again.  The 2 first, empty themselves into Garnock, near the
village.  And Garnock empties itself into the sea at the bar of Irvine.  From
the rapidity of these different waters, and when much swelled, great mischief
is often done to the flat grounds near the village, through which they run; so
that many fields of rich grain have been, in harvest, either laid flat on the
ground, covered with wreck, or entirely swept away when cut down.  In har-
vest 1791, more than 20 acres were thus destroyed and loft.  Hereby, the value
of such lands, however rich, is greatly lessened, as farmers cannot call their
crops their own, till they are secured in their barns.  There are plenty of trouts
in the above waters, generally of a small size, and vary in colour, according to
the waters they are caught in.  Some sea-trouts and salmon are caught in Gar-
nock, but not in such quantities, as to bring much profit to the proprietor of
the water, though the price of late years has advanced from 1 1/2 d. to 3 d. the
English lib.


