
136                	KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

for labourer is 1s. to 1s. 6d. per day in summer, and 10d. to 1s.
4d. in winter. For cutting peats, 2s. 6d. a-day is charged; and
the same sum for mowing hay. When mowers of meadows hay are
engeged for the season, they receive L.2, 5s. to L.2, 10s. and board.
The season is generally about five weeks. Hay-workers, women
or young lads, for the same period, received 18s. to L.1, and vic-
tuals. Female servants received from L.1, 10s. to L.4 the half year.
	Masons, who also work as slater, charge 3s. in summer and
2s. 6d. in winter. Wright charge 2s. 8d. in summer and 2s. 6d.
winter. Dike-builder, 2s. 6d. in summer, 2s. in winter; in all
without victuals. Dikes of dry stone cost from 1s. 4d. to 1s. 8d.
per rood of 20 feet long and 4 1/2 high, exclusive of carting of ma-
terials. For shoeing a pair of horses and keeping a plough in
repair, L.3 to L.3, 10s per annum. Shoeing a horse, 2s. 8d. to
3s. 4d. An iron plough cost L.4, 10s. to L.5; a pair of harrows,
L.1, 5s.; a close-boiled cart, L.8. The wood for a five-barred
sheep-hurdle cost from 9d. to 1s. at the saw-mill; and when com-
pleted, 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d., each hurdle being 7 1/2 feet long.
	Stock.--The black-faced is the common breed of sheep kept,
though a few of the Leicester breed `re reared in the lower parts
of the parish. Much attention has been bestowed upon the im-
provemnets of the native stocks by a careful selection of the best
animals for breeding, and by the introduction of superior rams
from other districts. Mr Robert M'Millan in Palgown has been
the most perserving and successful improver of this hardly race,
and his stock, for superior excellence, is not surpassed, if equal-
led, in the south of Scotland. A more judicious system of ma-
nagement is now generally adopted in regard to sheep stock.
Formerly, the pasture were often overstocked; while at present,
the stocks are kept rather under what the walks could maintain;
and the hogs are commonly wintered on pasture taken for the
purpose in some lower district. The present breed of sheep are
distinguised by a greater aptitude to fatten, and attain maturity
at an ealier period than the old race, while the wool has consi-
derably increased in quantity, though rather coarser in texture.
The number of sheep at present kept is 33,500.
	The black polled native cattle, usually denominated Galloways,
are the common breed kept. More attention is bestowed on the
rearing of stock than on the produce of the dairy. The number
of cattle is about 2000 of all ages.
	Husbandary.--The greater part of the parish being of a moun-


