
546				AYRSHIRE.

they were forty years ago. Whilst this is to be attributed, in a great
degree, to the persevering industry of the tenants, something must
be owing to the protection afforded by the Legislature, and not a lit-
tle to the societies into which the agriculturists have formed them-
selves,--by means of which, the combined knowledge of the best
managers of the different kinds of crops on the different soils is
made known to all. The superior manner of feeding the dairy
stock has added greatly to the returns yielded by it. It may be
stated here, that we have in the parish 800 milch cows, 260 agri-
cultural horses, 260 white-faced sheep, and about 300 black-faced
sheep.
	Husbandry,--The manner of cropping varies; but generally
after four years pasture, the land is top-dressed and a crop of oats
raised--the manure is applied witb a green crop, such as potatoes,
beans, or turnips,--then wheat or barley follows, and lastly hay and
clover. In some parts, a continual succession of crops is practised
oats are reared one year, then a green crop with manure, then
wheat, and lastly clover. Experience has shown that, under such
a mode of procedure, the soil rapidly deteriorates, though annual-
ly supplied with abundance of manure. This latter system is in-
jurious alike to landlord and tenant, while the former seems far
the best for all parties and all soils. The quality of the soil would
be much better sustained, if it were richly manured ere the last
crop is raised; and to secure such an end, a premium might be of-
fered for the best pasture, as the pasture must be good in propor-
tion to the richness of the soil; besides, if a premium were propos-
ed for the best oats, or first crop after pasture, tenants might be
induced to allow the field to lie at rest a year or two longer, which
is by far the best mode of enriching the soil.
	Improvements.--The principal advance made in agriculture con-
sists, not so much in reclaiming waste land, as in improving that
already reclaimed.
	An old writer, after informing us that the soil, which is frequent-
ly, only a foot deep, rests on a strong till complains "that, in con-
sequence, the autummal rains which fall peculiarly heavy in the
western parts of Scotland, having no longer the heat of the sun,
as in summer, to exhale them, lie and stagnate on the surfice of
the ground during the whole winter, which greatly injures it, and
for a time, even destroys its vegetative powers." The evil al-
luded so has been greatly, removed by tile-draining, an improve-
ment introduced into the parish about the year 1820, by His


