
          16	                   NAIRNSHIRE.

        size. It is adjacent to the church and contains, as stated above,
        360 inhabitants.
          Means of Communication.-The means of communication en-
        joyed by the parishioners are various, and have, in the course of
        the last twenty years, been immensely improved. There is no post-
        office nearer than Nairn. The turnpike road from Elgin- to In-
        verness, formed in 1820, runs through the parish for about four
        miles, and along with county roads running in all directions, and
        all kept in good repair, affords the best possible communication
        short of railroads or canals. The bridges are well and substan-
        tially built. A daily mail, and two daily stage-coacbes, run on
        the turnpike, and carriers, regular and occasional, complete the
        means of conveyance enjoyed by the inhabitants.
          Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, Ihough not exactly
       centrical, is', from its situation, convenient for the great majority
       of the people. It is close to the village, as already mentioned,
       and even those at thegreatest distance are within five miles of it.
       A range, therefore, of three, miles at an average will include al-
       most, the whole of the churchgoing population. The church was
       built in 1757, and is still a substantial, though an ill-constructed,
       building. The length is completely out of proportion to the
       breadth, and the whole building affords a specimen of the little
       attention formerly paid in the erection of churches both to the
       comfort and the acoustic powers of the congregation. It has ac-
       commodation for 477 sitters, and no seat-rents are on  any pre-
       tence exacted.  No sittings however are provided for the inbabi-
       tants of the village. The manse was built in 1817, and, in re-
       spect both of construction and situation, is as desirable a residence
       as tiny country manse in the present day.
         The extent of the lobe is about six acres, and its annual value
       L.12. The stipend, by a decree of the Court of Teinds, is fixed
       at 16 cbalder-% half mealt half barley, paid out of the teinds, 14
       wedders converted at L. 2, Is. 6d., L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion
       elements, and L.10, in lieu of a grass grebe. There are in this
       parish about.L.200 of unappropriated teinds. The patron and
       titular of the parish is Mr Brodie of Brodie.
         There is no chapel of ease, no Government church, and no
       missionary in the parish. There are two catechists employed by
       the kirk-session, with the consent and approval of the congrega-
       tions. One lof theseis partly, paid by the Society, for Propagating
       Christian Knowledge. There is a Disseinting meeting-house at
                                      3


