
	               RATHVEN.                                 247

water at the village of Findochtie, the property of Earl Seafield,
is 24 feet, and the breadth of the entrance into the bason, which
is well protected, 270; thus affording sufficient water and safe an-
chorage, if converted into a harbour, for ships of very considerable
tonnage. This parish is intersected by several rapid running
burns or streamlets, all of which have their source in the high
grounds within its bounds, and empty themselves into the sea at
Portgordon, Buckie, and Gollachie. There are several medici-
nal springs. One of these is situated at Burn of Oxhill, and is
much resorted to by people from the inland parts of the country
with their children, while labouring under hooping-cough; but the
benefit resulting from it is believed to be more imaginary than
real, as chance of air is always known to be of great advantage in
this complaint. There are also two chalybeate springs, one at
Gollachie, and the other in the immediate neigbbourhood of New
Buckie, much frequented, particularly the latter, by people who
come thither for sea-bathing, and drinking the water of this well.
At Findochtie, a spring of a purgative nature, issuing from a rock
considerably within flood-mark, is occasionally drunk by the inha-
bitants, and those who reside in the neighbourhood. There is an
abundant supply of perennial spring water, free both from the car-
bonates of lime and iron.
  Mineralogy.-The prevailing strata along the coast bordering
this parish, are rocks of the primitive Neptunian series, viz. gneiss,
mica-slate, clay-slate, and schist; and the direction of the strata
is from north-east to south-west; and the dip of the rocks is north.
west and south-east. The angle of elevation varies at different
places. Adjacent to Buckie, where the rocks have been laid bare
by the action of the sea, some are perceptible at an angle of about
25\d, others at 90\d. At the north-east part of the parish, near the
burn of Cullen, the old red sandstone commences, which is in con-
junction with greywacke to the eastward; and the thickness of
that bed extending to the westward is very great, particularly
where the new red sandstone is found overlying the old red sand-
stone formation. The new red sandstone appears at that point in
nearly horizontal strata, and dips to the south and south-east.
The greywacke, here, and along the coast, alternates with clay and
mica-slate, which reposes on the greywacke. The bed appears
to be of considerable thickness. Its direction is from north-east
to south-west; and it is the prevailing rock within the parish.
But the greywacke is protruded through the clay and mica-slate


