
		       KINLOSS.                          213

years of age unable to read. Sabbath schools are taught; and,
in Findborn especially, a visible change for the better has occur-
red, since the facilities of intellectual and religious instruction have
been increased.
   Savings Bank.-A savings bank, in connection with that in For-
res, on Government security, was lately established, and it is to be
hoped it will meet. with the encouragement and support which such
useful institutions deserve.
   Library.-A, small library, set on foot in Findhorn by collec,
tions, and another in connection with the General Assembly's
school, have been found very beneficial. The books, chiefly of a
religious and moral description, are eagerly sought and read by old
and young.
   Friendly Society.-A Friendly Society, formed about forty years
ago, is continuing to flourisb,-its funds amounting at present to
L.380, of which L.300 is lent on heritable security, and the re-
mainder is in the British Linen Company's Bank.
   Poor.-The average number of poor receiving parochial aid is
40. The only funds for their relief, exclusive of the interest of
a small mortified sum, are the weekly collections at church,
amounting on an average to L. 50 per annum. There are occa-
sional donations from the heritors to the amount of L. 10 a year,
and several benevolent individuals in the parish distribute every
year from 150 to 200 barrels of coals among the most destitute.
   The allowance given in the course of the year to each pauper,
varies from L.1 to L.3, which would W altogether inadequate to
their support, did not their relatives and neighbours kindly assist
them. A laudable spirit of independence, too, prompts them to
make as much as possible by their own industry, and for the last
twenty years not an individual from among the numerous poor that
are in the parish, has gone forth from it publicly to beg. There
has been no assessment hitherto, but how long this state of mat-
ters, however desirable, may continue, is difficult to say. The po-
pulation is on the increase, and if pauperism should increase along
with it, nothing can prevent a change in the system which the
kirk-session has been labouring to uphold, save increasing libera-
lity on the part of the non-resident heritors, who have hitherto in
any way, borne but a very trifling share of the burden.
   Fairs.-Three fairs are held annually at Findhorn, one in Octo-
ber, one in March, and one in July, on the second Wednesday
(old style) of each month, chiefly for sheep, cattle, and horses.


