
226                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

as Cristpason mith seretum, xi. punda male, i. e. the vessel of
Christ [or baptismal font] of eleven pounds weight, with orna-
ments. Radih pedra Therfusa aqrran, i. e. by authority of the
Therfusian Fathers, for the devastation of the fields. Kua xiii.i.e.
13 cows. Ashlafardhal, i. e. the vale of Ashlafr. Menboat, the
expiation for an injury.
	In confirmation of the interpretation of that part of the inscription
rendered by Mr. Repp " the vessel of Christ, &c." it may be pro-
per to observe, that there is preserved along with the column an orna-
mented circular stone, which, according to a probable tradition,
was originally used as the pedestal of a baptismal font, or font for
holy water. The writer's conjecture is, that this vessel stood before
the pillar on the circular stone; and this is the more probable, from
the well known fact, that in Roman Catholic countries, a similar
arrangement is in the present day exceedingly common.
	The Roman side contains inrcriptions in Latin, chiefly taken
from the vulgate version of the New Testament, and all of them
bearing reference to the figures on the compartments which they
surround. Turning to the face of the column represented on the
right hand of the plate, we find in the lowest compartment a very
mutilated representation of the crucifixion, with the margin which
contained thd inscription, entirely destroyed. Immediately above
this, are the figures of the Angel Gabriel and the Virgin Mary.
Of the legend, nothing remains but two complete words, and a few
imperfect letters; yet these seem sufficient to enable us to ascer-
tain the whole which appears to have been a quotation from the vul-
gate translation of Luke, Ist Chapter, 28th verse. It runs thus, *
" Et INGRESSVS ANGELVIS ad eam dixit, ave, gratia plena!  Domi-
nUS TECUM:  BEnedicta tu in mulieribus."
	In the next compartment, Christ is represented in the act of
curing a blind man. The legend appears to have been partly
taken from the vulgate of John, 9th Chapter, 1st verse, and to have
stood as follows: " ET PRAETERIENS VIDIT hominem caecum A NA-
TIBITATE (nativitate) ET Sanavit aB INFIRMITate. The mistake of
substituting a B for a V in "nativitate," may perhaps suggert some
conjectures as to the language, or at least the dialect spoken when
the sculpture was made.
	The next representation is that of the woman wiping the feet of
Jesus with her hair. The inscription is from the vulgate of Luke,
9th Chapter, 37 and 38 verses, ATTVLIT AlabASTRVM VNGVENTI ET

<FOOTNOTE>In this and the other inscriptions, the legible letters are printed in Roman capitals.


