
   298                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.


                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Means of Communication.-There is a post-office at Struan,
   about half a mile west from the manse, close by the Parliamentary
   road, which, from one end of the parish to the other, is in extent
   about twenty miles. The road and bridges are always kept in
   good repair.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated in a hollow
   spot of ground on the north side of a small arm of Loch Braca-
   dale, called Lochbeg, within a few yards of the public road, about
   a quarter of a mile below the manse, as conveniently as it could
   well be placed; the greater part of the population being dis-
   tant six miles from the northern, and about fourteen miles from
   the southern extremity of the parish. It was built in 1831, and
   affords accommodation to between 500 and 600 sitters. The sit-
   tings are all free.
      The manse was built about forty years ago, and received some
   additions and repairs in 1828. The glebe contains about 30
   acres, and its value is about L.15.  The amount of the stipend
   is L.150.
     There is one missionary supported by the Royal Bounty.
   There is a catechist supported by the Society for Propagating
   Christian Knowledge. Divine service is always well attended.
   The average number of communicants is about 20.
     Education.-Tbere are five schools in the parish ; the paro-
   cbial school, and other four schools, supported partly by societies,
   and partly by private subscriptions. The branches generally
   taugbt, are, Gaelic, English, writing, and arithmetic. The sa-
   lary of the parochial schoolmaster is L.28. Those of the rest
   vary from L.8 to L.25. The amount of school fees, in all cases,
   is merely nominal. The parish schoolmaster is provided with
   the legal accommodation. The general expense of education is
   quite trifling. The number of the young between six and fifteen
   years of age who cannot write or read is nearly 400; the number
   of persons upwards of fifteen years who cannot read or write is
   near 800.
     The people, in general, are not so much alive to the benefits of
   education as could be wished; at the same time, their poverty is
   such as to prevent them from following up their inclination in
   that respect, even to the degree in which it exists.
      There are some parts of the parish with a considerable popula-
   tion, several miles distant from any school. Two or three schools


