
160               EDINBURGHSHIRE.

phalanx. The day had suddenly become foggy to an uncommon
degree. As I was amusing myself in my garden, I heard the
wild geese advancing at some distance. When they had come
almost directly over the spot where I was, they seemed to have
become 'seized with an immediate panic, from an apprehension
that they had either lost their way, or could no longer proceed in
safety through the mist. The noise they made in consequence
was like the twanging of a thousand instruments of brass. Some-
times they seemed to descend in a body so near the earth, that a
stone thrown vigorously from the hand might, as it seemed, have
brought some of them to the ground. Again they mounted to a
much greater height,-and the noise and the perplexity continued
for about twenty minutes-the birds still hovering over nearly the
same spot of ground. No person who heard the noise could doubt
that their fear and perplexity were extreme. At length they found
some way of escape,-but whether a breeze had opened up to them
the distant prospect which they sought for-or whether they had
ascended to a higher region above the fog-or whether some goose
more sagacious and possessed of greater authority than the rest
had undertaken to pilot them through the mist, I was not
able to determine. The impression, however, on my mind at the
time was, that they were a very fit emblem of some popular as-
semblies which I have seen, when, like the wild geese, they too are
at a stand about some puzzling question, and know not how to
proceed. The noise and the dissonance were very much of the
same kind.
  The black cock is a much rarer bird in this district than in for-
mer years-but grouse, snipes, plovers, and woodcocks abound on the
moors and in the swampy grounds. Field fares come regularly in flocks
to feed on the berries of the old hollies beside the manse, and
pheasants are in great plenty in all the woods. The water-hen and
water-crow are frequent in the course of all the streams.
  In severe winters several strange birds visit us. During the sin-
gularly severe and low-continued storm of 1822-23, we were
visited by some of the swans which at that time were seen in dif-
ferent parts of the island. I did not suspect what they were, till
they rose from the side of the stream with their fine musical note,
and made their way with great magnificence of wing to a more
distant, scene.
  Foxes frequently breed in the Chairman, (piece of wooded hill which
fronts the windows of my room.) I have amused myself occasion-


