
416       	            EDINBURGHSHIRE.

vice will yet be recognized in a more substantial form than has hi-
therto been done.  What the residence at Baroda, however, put in
the power of this venerable character, and what be valued above
all the gold of India, was the means of suppressing the revolting
land abominable practice of female infanticide in Guzerat.  A de-
tailed narrative of his successful labours in this generous cause
will be found in an account of them which I published in 1815,
-a work now many years out of print.
   His last years were intently occupied in preparing some of his
MSS. for the press.  Perhaps the best use of them that can now
be made, would be to incorporate whatever in them is new and pe-
culiar, with a life of the excellent author.
   James Borthwich of Stow, a cadet of the Crookston family, prac-
tised as a physician in Edinburgh, and is here noticed as having
occasioned the disjunction of the corporation of Surgeons from that
of the Barbers, which previously formed one corporation.
   The Rev. Dr John Lee, now Principal of the University of Edin-
burgh, and Principal Clerk of the General Assembly of the Church
of Scotland, one of the Chaplains in Ordinary to Her Majesty in
Scotland, was born at Torwoodlee Mains in this parish.
   Land-owners.--The present land-owners of the parish of Stow,
in the order of their valued rents, are the following:  Alexander
Mitchell of Stow; James Pringle, Esq. of Torwoodlee; John
Borthwick, Esq. of Crookston; William Stewart Walker, Esq. of
Bowland; Adam Fairholm, Esq. of Chapel; Alexander Pringle,
Esq. of Whitebank, M.P.; George Thomson, Esq. of Burnhouse;
Robert Dundas, Esq. of Arniston; James Murray, Esq. of Craig-
end; William Colvin, Esq. of Michelston; Archibald Christie,
Esq. of Baberton; Hugh Watson, Esq. of Torsonce, a minor;
General John Pringle, of Symington; Sir John Pringle, of Sti-
chell, Bart.; William Patterson, Esq. Little Caspair; Captain
Robert Tait, R. N., of Pirn.
   Antiquities.--There are remains of ancient Roman camps on the
farms of Muirhouse Stagehall, Craigend, Watherstone, Nether-
shiels, Pirntaiton, and Hawtree, &c.  They vary in size from half-an
acre, as at Nethershiels, to two acres, as at Muirhouse and Craig-
end.  The larger ones are circular, while the others are oval.  The
smaller ones seem to have been points of observation extending
along the strath of the water, for communicating with one another
by signal.  In clearing away the remains of the camp on Muir-
house, a few years ago, upwards of 1000 carts of stones were re-


