
                            PARISH OF FORTEVIOT.

              PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                   THE REV. R.J. ROBERTSON, MINISTER.


                     I.-TOPOGRAPHY-AND NATURAL HISTORY
            THIS parish is composed of three widely detached portions.
          The middle part, in which is the village of Forteviot, in the val-
          ley of the Earn, situated on both banks of that river, is bounded
          on the north by Tibbermoor: on the east, by Aberdalgie on
          the north side of the Earn, and by Forgandenny on the south
          side; by Forgandenny on the south; by Gask on the west, north
          of the river, and by Dunning south of it.  This division is the
          largest.  A smaller portion, lying in the Ochils, is bounded on.
          the east by Arngask; south, by Orwell; north and west, by For-
          gandenny.  A still smaller part lies on the east of Aberdalgie,
          bounded by it on the west; by Durnbarnie on the east; by the
          Earn on the south; and by the East Parish of Perth on the north.
          The first and last portions are fertile, highly cultivated, and richly
          wooded; the other, in the Ochils, comprehends some of the dis-
          tinguisbed summits belonging to the northern division of that well-
          known ridge of mountains, and is chiefly in the hands of the pro-
          prietors, small lairds, each farming and improving his own land.
            Rivers.-The river Earn or Earne flows across the breadth of the
          parish, from west to east. It frequently overflows its banks, and is
          thereby the occasion of great damage to the low grounds through
          which it runs.  The May is a rivulet that takes its origin among the
          Ochil-hills, at the distance of about eight miles from the Earn, into
          which, after a greatly variegated course, it is lost.  The water and
          banks of the May exhibit some natural curiosities, that deservedly
          attract the attention of strangers.  The Humble Bumble, in parti-
          cular, is extremely remarkable.  This name is given to a narrow
          course which the water has cut for itself a considerable way through
          a rock, the sides of which meet I almost together, especially near
          the top. This passage is both deep and dark.  A rumbling noise,


