
	                  PAISLEY.                          197

forty years past, to have seen the Cross-pieces on the top.  No
figures have been on it, only wreathed works." *
   Not a mile to the south of this, at Harelaw Craigs, on a rock,-
upon the side of a branch road, "are seventy-two small holes of
an oval form, an inch deep, and placed at irregular distances.
Tradition has handed down, that a battle was fought here, and that
these holes were where the feet of tents stood." + Semple, how-
ever, thinks the tradition groundless. ++
There are several estates in this parish, once or still belonging
to families of distinction, which, generally speaking, have either no
mansions on them, or dwellings of inferior character.  We give
their names here, because the proprietors or their connexions have
figured in the history of their country.  Raiss or Loqan's Raiss.
John Logan of Raiss is named in the chartulary of Paisley as an
arbiter between them Abbot of Paisley and the burgh of Renfrew,
in 1488.  The lands now belong to the Earl of Glasgow - White-
ford.  Walter de Whiteford obtained these lands, which he so cat-
led, from the Stewart of Scotland, for his good service, at the bat-
tle of the Largs against the Norwegians, anno 1263, in the reign of
Alexanderlll. Mr Kibble of Whiteford has long possessed the lands.
-Newton, formerly belonging to the family of Alexander, is now the
property of Alexander Speirs of Elderslie, Esq. in whose possession
are also the lands of Fulbar, belonging, when, Crawfurd wrote, to a
very ancient family of the name of Hall, settled there at least as
early as the year 1370.-Bredieland, still the property of a family
of Maxwells who have possessed the estate between three and
four hundred years.  William Maxwell, Esq. the present proprie-
tor, has also the estate of Merksworth, anciently belonging to the
Algoes of Walkinshaw.- Woodside, belonging, in Crawfurd's time,
to his own family, is now in the possession of the  heirs of John
Shedden, Esq.-Ferguslie, on which is a good family residence,
was granted in 1544, by the abbot and convent of Paisley, to John
Hamilton of the Orbieston family.  It now belongs to John Wilson,

<FOOTNOTE>Semple's Renfrewshire, part 2, p. 238.  Ibid. p. 239
    The rubbish which had gathered upon and around these holes was lately
cleared away, by order of John Wilson of Thornlu, Esq., so that the antiquirian has
now no difficulty in tracing them.
   In a manuscript note by Dr. boog, appended to Semple's he says, "in
the neighbourhood of the farm of Braehead, some men diggin in a hillock found
several earthen vases.  By their account they most have been ures: and along with
them some brass instruments, which they describe as resembling heads of spears,
1770."


