
                           TOROSAY.                           285

ragh Gear, for so was he designated from his low stature, set out
alone to reconnoitre.  Oberving a woman engaged in milking cows
not far from the keep, he went to her, and requested a little milk
to quench his thirst.  In the meantime, the cow that was in the
act of being milked, started, which made the woman utter an ex-
clamation, in which she made use of the name  Murragh.  Maclaine
-for such is the orthography of the name adopted by this branch
-asked her reason for uttering that name.  She told him that
she had been nurse to the young heir of Lochbuy, and that Such
was her affection for him, that she at times, without being aware
of it, repeated his name.  Would you know him yet, were you to
see him? asked Murragh Gear.  Her reply was, that, from a mark
on his breast, she would have no difficulty in recognizing him.
He bared the mark, when she embraced him with all the affection
of a mother.  After telling her of his design upon the keep, she
recommended to him to place his men in ambuscade near it, how
soon the shades of night would conceal their approach, at the same
time to send one of his followers to the inclosure where the calves
were kept, and to drive them to their dams.  When the low-
ing of the cattle-which in these circumstances usually takes
place-should be heard in the keep, she having the charge of them,
would cause her husband, who was door-keeper, to open the gate,
and would call some of the guard to her assistance; then is
your time, says she, to rush in and to put the remainder to the
sword.  But how, asked Maclaine, can I do this consistently with
the preservation of my foster father?  As to that, replied his nurse,
"Leig an tearbull leis a chraicionn"-(let the tail go with the
hide.)  The stratagem succeeded, and Murragh Gear soon reco-
vered, along with the fort, his estates, which have ever since con-
tinued in the family.  The present representative is Murdoch
Maclaine, Esq. who is the principal heritor of the parish.  The
representative of the Macleans of Duart is Lieutenant-General
Sir Fitzroy Grafton Maclean of Morvaren, Bart.  It is not known
which of the founders of these two families was the elder brother,
consequently the representatives of both always claimed the dis-
tinction of being regarded exclusively as the head of the whole
clan.
   The two brothers were sons of an Irish chief, called Gillean-
na Tuaidh, from his ordinary weapon a battle-axe, which to this
day, his posterity bear as their crest, betwixt a laurel and a cypress
branch, with the motto. "vincere aut mori."  Gillean-na-Tuadh.


