
			MONTROSE.                            279

Laguage, Customs, &c.--One great peculiarity which strikes a
stranger from the south, in the language of the common people
in this county, and in the neighbouring counties on the north, is
the use of f for vh, as fan, far, &c. for when, where, &c. Except
by the better classes, the lowland Scotch is universally spoken
with a strong provincial accent.
	Amusements.--Golf playing, a pleasant and healthy exercise, for
which the links afford one of the best grounds in Scotland, is much
practised by all ranks and all ages. Cricket has also of late years
been introduced. The theatre and horse-racing may be numbered
among the things that were in Montrose,--the building for the
former having been converted into dwelling-houses, and the race-
course not having for a number of years been applied to its original
purpose. Players, however still occasionally visit tbe town, and per-
form in places of temporary accommodation,--little, it is believed,
either for their own profit, or the improvement of their audience.
	Habits and Character of the People.--When, a few years ago,
cholera threatened the town, great exertions were made to promote
among the lower ranks attention to cleanliness, the want of which
was then ascertained to exist to an extent of which previously
many had no idea; and, although some may have been thus brought
to see and to feel its advantages, yet there is still considerable room
for improvement in this respect. The general abundance and
consequent cheapness of fish, while it is an advantage to all the
inhabitants, is peculi`rly so to the poorer classes, as compared
with those who live in more inland districts.
	There are very few grown up persons who cannot read; and
although here, as elsewhere, different opinions are entertained in
regard to civil and ecclesiastical matters, these have not occa-
sioned such asperities, nor so marred the pleasures of social inter-
course, as in some other places; nor, upon occasions which bring
the people together, and upon which their conflicting opinions are
most likely to influence the conduct, has any of that tendency to
rioting, of which we hear elsewhere, been manifested by them.
The easy access to libraries, and the extent to which the inhabit-
ants avail themselves of the privilege, have tended greatly to dif.
use intelligence and general information among all ranks.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture.--The whole number of acres in the parish is about
3080 Scotch measure, of which, with the exception of the beach
along the sea shore, and some steep banks on the North Esk, the


