
     of Insch.

<UNREADABLE>

late and precarious.  About one third of the whole parish (or
2500 acres) is cultivated at present) and 5000 acres are not
cultivated.  But it deserves to be noticed, that of this unculti-
vated part, several hundred acres on the hill of Fondland, and
in the glens or narrow vallies above mentioned, not only are
arable, but were formerly under cultivation.  These are now ne-
glected, and produce nothing but heath.  They were first desert-
ed by the farmers in the end of last century, when that part of
the country was almost de???opulated by 7 years of famine:
And now they lie neglected, along with many thousand acres,
in like situation, in different parts of the north of Scotland.

</UNREADABLE>

   Hills-The largest of these is the hill of Fondland above
mentioned, which extends into several parishes, and is ele-
vated about 800 feet above the level of the sea.  This ex-
tensive hill shelters the parish of Insch, and a considerable
part of the district of Garioch, upon the north; and hence
partly occasions its great natural fertility.  In the most ele-
vated part of Fondland, and in that part which is situated in
the parish of Insch, are extensive quarries of fine blue slate,
a considerable quantity of which is yearly dug up, and ma-
nufactured for sale.  This hill seems once to have been a
very considerable hunting forest.  Its name, which is from
the Gaelic, is expressive of this; for faoed, in the Gaelic,
signifies hunting.  And, in the mosses of this hill, very large
trees, particularly oaks, are frequently dug up.  It now a-
bounds in moss, heath, and moor game.  About half a mile
from the town of Insch, stands the curious and noted hill
of Dun-o-deer, with the ruins of a very antient castle on
the top of it.  Dun-o-deer, or Dundore in Gaelic, is said to
signify the Hill in the Wood; and very probably all the lower
grounds, around that insulated hill, have once been covered
with wood.  It is remarkable steep on all sides, is of a coni-
cal shape, and covered with a very fine green sward.  Hec-


