
     of Banff.

   Implements of Husbandry.-In no branch of agriculture
has there been a more striking and essential improvement
than in the construction of the implements of husbandry. 
Carts were not used in this parish till the year 1728, when
Mr Duff of Corsindae, then residing in Banff, introduced
them, having procured two "timber carts," at the price of
5s. each.  The creel or curroch was then the common ve-
hicle in use.  Grain, meal, and lime for exportation, were
brought hither on horseback, from the most inland parts of
the country.
   The only plough then used, was what is known by the
name of the old Scottish plough, in its rudest form.  Now,
carriages, ploughs, harrows, and the various utensils of hus-
bandry, of the most approved and modern construction, are
either imported from Leith, or manufactured in this coun-
try.  These are generally painted; a practice which has both ornament and
utility to recommend it*.

   Nursery.-Adjoining the farm of Colleonard, there is a
nursery of considerable extent, conducted by Mr Reid. It
was begun about 30 years ago, and has of late been greatly

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

The above facts and observations are taken from "An Inquiry into the
"Corn Laws and Corn Trade of Great Britain, and their influences the
"Prosperity of the Kingdom; by the late Alexander Disom,  , or -
"esk."

</UNREADABLE>

Mr Dirom was amply qualified for the investigation of these importan
subjects.  He was particularly acquainted with the state of this county, ha-
ving long resided in Banff.
*The ingenious Bishop of Llaodriss, in his Chemical Essays, observes,
"since the same piece of wood has different weights, when dry, and when
"soaked with water, the covering carts, ploughs, and other husbandry gear
"usually made of ash, with a coarse kind of paint which will seep out the
"rain, is practice full as serviceable in lessening the weight of the im_
"plement which is to be moved by the strength of man or horse, as at
"preserving the wood from decay."


