
                  NEW KILPATRICK.                               47

of the company took notice, saying, "Is na Garscadden looking
unca gash."--" And so he, may, said another, for he has been
with his Maker this half hour : but I did na like to disturb the
conviviality of the company by saying ony thing about it." This
anecdote has been introduced by Mr Galt ,into one of his tales,
and is not unworthy of preservation as indicating the manners, of
the age. In latter times, the gentry of the parish have acquired
a more honourable distinction in the profession of the law, and
as representative of the county. We have already noticed Sir
Islay Campbell of Succoth, Bart. and this son, Sir Archibald Camp-
bell, as Senators of the College of Justice, and Archibald Colquhoun
of Killermont, Esq. as Lord Advocate of Scotland. And is Mem-
ber of Parliament we have had Henry Glassford of Dugalstone;
Lord Advocate Colquhoun; the late John Campbell, younger of
Succoth, whose early death deprived us of a much respected and very
promising country gentleman; and John Campbell Colquhoun of
Garscadden and Killermont, an accomplished scholar, and an elo-
quent advocate of education and religion. By these gentlemen
the county of Dumbarton has been represented during more than
twenty of the years of the present century.
   Antiquities,--To the antiquary, the parish presents little that
is interesting, except what arises from the Wall of Antoninus, which
crossed it, at its widest part from east to west. The description
given of this wall by Gordon in his Itinerarium Septentrionale is
in a great measure applicable, to its present state. The "forts at
Castlehill and New Kilpatrick," the "ditch running up the hill
at Ferguston," and the "causeway at New Kilpatrick" are still
nearly in the condition he describes. Two stones dug from the
ruins of these forts, and noticed by Gordon, the one as the largest-
and the other as the noblest Roman stones ever found in Scot-
land, are preserved in the Hunterian Museum of the University
of Glasgow. A few years ago another stone war dug up near
Castlehill, and presented by Mr Glassford, the proprietor, to the
same institution. It is a votive tablet, dedicated to the rural gods,
which may fairly be in interpreted, the fairies of Britain. The height,
is 31/2 feet ; the breadth of the base: 16 inches; and the thickness 10
inches. It is excellent preservation, and the inscription, which
we subjoin, is distinctly legible.--CAMPESTRIEVE ET BRTANNI 2
P SETIVE IVETVE PREF COM IIII GAL V. SLL. M.
   On the farm of Dasholm, near Garscube, a barrow or tu-
mulus has recently been discovered, and in part opened up.


