
				PORTPATRICK 			153

	Town.--The town of Portpatrick was "erected into a burgh of ba-
rony in the end of the reign of James VI., or beginning of the reign of
Charles I. before 1628." (Chalmers' Caledonia, Vol. iii. p. 408):
but the charter seems to have remained a dead letter, so far as re-
spects the establishment of a burgh magistracy or police. There is
only one justice of the peace in the parish. There has recently been
stationed in the town, in connection with the police oft he country,
a sub-constable, whose district comprehends the parishds of Port-patrick,
Leswalt, and Kirkcolm, and who acts under a superinten-
dent residing at Stranraer. There is no trade vorth mentioning.
Lime from Ireland and coals from Ayrshire are imported for the
use of the parish, and occasionally the agricultural produce of the
district is exported; but rarely, as the greater part is sold at Stran-
raer, either for consumpt there or for exportation. The number
of cattle and horses imported here from Ireland is now very incon-
siderable. It appears from the Statistical Account of 1791, that
the number of cattle and horses imported in the preceding year
was 17,275; in 1812, it reached 20,000: but last year (1837)
it amounted to no more than 1080. Both cattle and horses from
Ireland are now conveyed so easily and safely by steamers to Li-
verpool or Glasgow, that the short sea passage at Portpatrick is
not so desirable for them as when stdam navigation was unknown
or in its infancy.
	There was a large custom-house establishment not very many years
ago at Portpatrick, with a collector, comptroller, &c. connected with
the custom-house at Stranraer. There is now only a single tide-
surveyor.
	The eastern boundary of the parish takes in a few houses of the
small village of Lochans. Through this village the turnpike-road
passes from Portpatrick to Stranraer. About five miles of this road
lie within the parish, and are kept in admirable repair.
	Post-Office.--The is a post-office in the town, at which letters
from Ireland are sorted for the Scotbh and English mails, and through
vhich the number of letters and newspapers that pass to and from
Ireland is supposed to amount to between 8000 and 10,000 daily. A
mail-coach between Portpatrick and Glasgow, and another between
Portpatrick and Dumfries, arrive and depart every day, each drawn
by two horses, and calculated to carry, besides the guard and driver,
four passenger inside, and four outside. The fares to Glas-
gow inside are L. 1, 8s., and outside, 18s.; to Dumfries inside, L. 1,
10s., and outside, L. 1, 1s.; to Stranraer inside, 3s., and outside, 2s.


