
822                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The climate of the parish is, on the whole, dry, airy, and salu-
brious, and accordingly the inhabitants enjoy in general good health.
   Soil.-There is a considerable variety of soils in the parish.
On the higher grounds, a gravelly thin soil,-on those of less ele-
vation, a rich loam and strong clay,-and on the lower grounds
generally, a bluish clay underneath a formation of peat of inconsi-
derable depth ; and these soils rest partly on rocks of whinstone
and iron, and partly on granite of inferior quality.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial records are neither volu-
minous nor of an early date. The first entry in the record of bap-
tisms appears to have been made on loth March 1723; that in
the poor's cash register on the 3d March 1731; and that in the
record of discipline on the 30th May of the same year.
   Antiquities.-On the lands of Mounie, and on the highest
ground in the parish, the remains of two Druidical temples are still
observable. The remains of a third were to be seen, within the
last twenty years, in the grave-yard; but the stones were some
time ago removed, and employed as materials in building the walls
of a dwelling-house.
   There is a small enclosure on the lands of Fingask, which ap-
pears to have been used formerly as a burial-ground. And in this
enclosure were to be seen the remains of what was believed to have
been a Roman Catholic place of worship, from the circumstance
of a silver crucifix being found by the workmen in digging for the
foundation of a mausoleum, erected by the late proprietor on the
spot about forty years ago; and of there being a well in its imme-
diate neighbourhood, which still bears the name of "The Lady's"
or "Our Lady's Well." The foundations of a building, said also
to have been a Roman Catholic cbapel, with a well close by, oc-
casionally attracted notice a few years ago on the estate of Le-
thenty. The well is still visible; but no vestige of the building
now exists.
   In a field of a farm on the property of Glack was dug up, in
1833, a species of battle-axe, which is now in the proprietor's pos-
session. The handle and head are both of iron,-the former 30
inches long, and the latter 5 inches long on the one side and 3 1/4
inches on the other, and varying from 4 to 4 3/4 inches in breadth.
Both sides of the head appear to have been sharpened. It is sup-
posed to have been used at the Battle of Harlaw, fought in the
adjoining parish of Chapel of Garioch in 1411.


