
            BOLESKINE AND ABERTARFF.                      61

for the bulk of the inhabitants; it is distant from the eastern extre-
mity scarcely two miles; but from the western extremity, in which
the population is more than double, it is sixteen miles. It was
built in 1777, and is at present in good repair, though uncomfort-
able both for preacher and hearers,-being long and narrow, and
resembling a barn more than a house meant for public worship.
The walls and roof are bare, and only one-half of it has galleries.
During the writer's incumbency, L. 570 have been bequeathed
by four persons of the name Fraser; and L. 70 more have been
realized from fines recovered from delinquents. The interest of
these sums is disbursed among the poor of Boleskine, to whom it is
limited ; and the interest of L. 20 is divided among the Protestant
poor of Abertarff.
   The parish church affords accommodation to 428 persons, and
the one at Fort-Augustus to about 300. There is no rent paid for
seats in the parish church; but at Fort-Augustus there are a few
seats belonging to the kirk-session, which are let for behoof of the
poor. The galleries are understood to be Government property,
and the rest belongs to private individuals.
   The manse was built in 1773, and, from its exposed situation,
requires to be frequently repaired. The last repairs given to it were
two years ago. It is incommodious and extremely uncomfortable.
   The extent of the glebe is 52 acres, 2 roods, 10 falls; but of
these upwards of 20 acres are rocks, stones, and worthless moor;
and the incumbent derives very little benefit from the residue, which
is not properly enclosed, and is surrounded by tenants whose cat-
tle and sheep constantly trespass and destroy the crop.
   As stated in the old Statistical Account, there were, till about
sixty years ago, two glebes in the united parishes,--one near Fort-
Augustus, on the banks of the Tarff, forming chiefly a level plot
of ground without a stone or any impediment to interrupt a plough;
and the other on the banks of Loch Ness, at the place peculiarly
styled Boleskine, of easy tillage, and having some valuable vood of
spontaneous growth in the hollow of some brooks. But an exchange
was recommended, and effected, though not regularly, formally,
or legally completed, if the record states the transaction correct-
ly; by this exchange, the legal guardians of the rights of the church
sacrificed the comfort and interest of every succeeding incumbent;
for the exchange has been from a charming spot and salubrious air,
to heathy, stony, rocky ground-to an elevated position exposed


