
250                        FORFARSHIRE.

the Scutellaria galericulata; the Subularia aquatica; the Cicuta
virosa, or deadly water-hemlock; the Sium latifolium, Ranunculus
lingua, Typha latifolia, Hydrocotyle vulgaris, Parnassia palustris,
Comarum palustre, Hippuris vulgaris, Utricularia vulgaris, and
various species of Orchis."*/f
   The principal woods in the parish are, Govan hill, extending
to about forty imperial acres; Mountboy wood, covering about 154
acres; and Dunninald dean about six acres. The two former are
situated inland towards the western extremity of the parish, and
consist chiefly of the Scotch and larch firs; the latter is close to
the sea-shore on the south side of the parish, and consists rather
of what are called the hard-woods, ash, beech, elm, and plane-tree.
The silver fir is also found to thrive better on the coast than the
Scotch fir.
			II--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Correct plans of the different properties in the parish have been
drawn very recently by surveyors; and a map of the whole parish
was prepared for the former Statistical Account by Colonel Colqu-
houn, nephew of the late Mr Ross of Rossie, and at that time a
young officer in the army. This map appears to have been co-
pied in a map lately published of the basin of the Tay; and ex-
cept that a new manse has been built in the vicinity of the church,
and the villa of Inchbrayock on the site of the old manse, besides
a few changes made on the lines of road, it still presents a very
correct view of the localities.
   Eminent men.--Among the eminent characters connected with
the parish, may be mentioned the truly eminent and excellent
Archbishop Leighton, who was descended from a family of consi-
derable celebrity in former times, proprietors of the lands of Usan,
but whose immediate relationship cannot now be traced with any
degree of certainty; Andrew Melville, who was born at Baldovie,
in the north corner of the parish, and whose life by Dr M'Crie,
has rendered his name and character familiar to the readers of
Scottish history; David Scott, Esq. of Dunninald, who, for a long
period, acted a distinguished part in the direction of the East In-
dia Company's affairs, was born and brought up in the parish;
and his nephew, David Scott, Esq. not less distinguished by his


<FOOTNOTE>The above notices respecting the botany of the parish of Craig have been kindly
supplied by a highly promising and much esteemed young friend, Dr John Hutton
Balfour of Edinburgh, who has been distinguished from his earliest years by what
may justly be denominated a Linnaean spirit of enterprise and research in this inte-
resting department of natural science.


