
130                         AYRSHIRE.

	Hydrography.--The only river in the parish is the Ayr, which,
entering at its eastern extremity, runs through it in a westerly di-
rection. This river, whose bed is of round stones and gravel, rises
in the parish of Muirkirk, and is considerably increased in its
course by the Greenock and Garpel, two rivulets which run into it
about six miles hom its source, as well as, by several streamlets,
which, now that furrow-draining has been so generally introduced
into this country, immediately after a heavy fall of rain, swell the
Ayr into an immense body of water. The usual velocity of this
river is about a mile an hour, but when swelled by a heavy fall of
rain, or the melting of snow on the neighbouring bills, its velocity
is increased to six or seven miles an hour. The scenery along its
banks, which in many places are steep and bold, is remarkably pic-
turesque and beautiful. There are several burns of water in the pa-
rish, the principal of which is the Cleugh, which runs into the Ayr
close by Sorn Castle. This burn, which passes through a deep glen
finely wooded on each side, though on a small scale, exhibits in some
points scenery not greatly inferior to the much admired scenery at
the Falls of the Clyde. Here are to be found beautiful specimens
of what is commonly called petrified fog, or more properly calc-
tuff, which are generally attached to the precipice, where it is form-
ed by the deposition of the carbonate of lime, held in solution by
the water which oozes from the rock upon the moss with which it
is covered.
	Geology, Soil, &c.--The primitive rocks do not make their ap-
pearance in the parish in situ, although the debris of several va-
rieties of granite is found in abundance in the diluvial deposit. The
whole district, however, is rich in the more useful minerals of the
secondary formation, and is chiefly remarkable for the very exten-
sive beds of limestone which are found on both sides of the river,
and which have been wrought for economical purposes during a
century. Coal seams also occur to some extent in the parish, and
at no great distance under the surface. In the same locality, seams
of clay ironstone (alternating with slate-clay) are found in very
great abundance, and are said to contain a very large per centage
of metal. The ironstone has never been fused on the spot; but
some years ago a considerable quantity was made use of by the
Muirkirk Iron Company at their works, about eight miles higher
up the river. Strata of sandstone of considerable variety of strue-
ture are also found in the vicinity of the coal, and towards the west-
ern part of the parish, where the coal and lime disappear, the


