
                             DUMFRIES.                       19

carried on to some extent; and hides prepared here are disposed
of in Glasgow, London, and other parts of the United Kingdom.
There are also several breweries in Dumfries, and one very exten-
sive basket-making establishment. The manufacture of clogs or
strong shoes with thick wooden soles, the use of which was till late-
ly confined to the south of Scotland, affords no inconsiderable pro-
fit to those engaged in it. Large quantities of shoes are also ex-
ported, and in the manufacture of these articles upwards of 300 in-
dividuals are employed. The manufactures carried on are not
sufficiently extensive to produce much effect upon either the health,
or the morals, of the general population.
    Trade.--Many thousand carcases of pork are sold here dur-
ing the season, which lasts from the end of December to the begin-
ning of April, and are sent off to the south to be cured. More than
700 are sold weekly; and, in some instances, from L.4000 to
L.5000 worth of pork has been disposed of in one day. A butcher-
market was many years ago prepared, and the stalls were oc-
cupied; but it is now entirely deserted,--the "fleshers" finding
it of greater advantage to disperse themselves over the town. In
the meal-market, business is transacted under cover. It has been
for some time in contemplation to build new markets, somewhat
upon the plan of those in Edinburgh; but nothing has as yet been
done towards the accomplishment of this design.
    About eighty years ago, a considerable tobacco trade was c`r-
ried on in Dumfries; but, in consequence of the detection of some
systematic and subcessful attempts at smuggling, the traffic in this
article came to be discouraged.
    The only foreign trade is with America, for timber, in which
several pretty large vessels are employed. The other vessels are
coasters, plying to Liverpool, Whitehaven, Maryport, and other
part. The imports are, principally coal, slate, iron, tallow, timber,
hemp, and wine. The annual value of the timber imported can-
not be less than from L.8000 to L.10,000 Sterling. The ex-
ports are wool, freestone, oats, wheat, and barley. *
     Navigation.--The number of vessels of all burdens belonging
to the port of Dumfries, (including the Creck of Annan,) amounts
to 84, the total burden of which is 5783 tons. The number
of foreign vessels usually trading to this port is form 12 to 18.
The range of the Dumfries Ctstom-house extends from Sark-foot,

<FOOTNOTE>Farther particulars of the trade of this parish are given under the head of Pa-
rochial Economy.


