
1092                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

         Macbeth's Stone and Macbeth's Cairn.-On the farm at Carn-
bady is the Brae of Strettum, Where Macbeth, according to tradi-
tion, was wounded. It was thought, for ages, unlucky. to disturb
the spot, which was asaociated with the memory of the monarch
whom the genius of Shakspeare has immortalized; when the
Attempt was made to plough it, the oxen ran off, and did not stop
till they reached the Peel Bog. The Brae of Strettum, however,
was successfully cultivated by the late tenant of Carnbady, and
nothing now remains to distinguish it frol the surrounding ground
but Macbeth's stone.
	On the Perk Hill, about a mile from the church, is Macbeth's
cairn, which, when Mr Shand, the late incumbent of the parish,
wrote his Statistical Account, "rose pretty high in the middle,"
but is now little elevated above the field which surrounds it. The
conjecture of Dalrymple, that Macbeth sought an asylum in the
Peel Bog,* is neither probable nor consistent with the narrative of
Wyntown. It is very likely, however, that the cairns which are
scattered over the Perk Hill, a little to the north, near which
sword-blades, stone battle-axes, and other memorials of warfare
have been found, mark the spot where the diminished forces of the
Unfortunate monarch were vanquished.+
         Cairns on Glenmillan.-On the estate of Cloak, now called
Glenmillan, there were lately some sepulchral cairns of consider-
able size, in one of which two curious rings of copper were found,
apparently designed to ornament the arms or ankles. They have
been deposited in the Museum of the Society of Antiquaries of
Scotland.++
         Camps.-At the foot of the Hill of Corse hs an earthen ram-
part, 230 yards long, and at the foot of the Hill of Milmahd, ex-
actly opposite to it, at the distance of a quarter of a mile, there is
another bulwark of a similar character. As implements of war
have been found in the intervening space, and in the immediate
neigbourhood, may not the conjecture he hazarded, that, behind
these entrenchments the forces of hostile chiefs, at some remote
period of feudal strife, encamped?
         Parochial Register.-The earliest entry in the parochial regis-
ter was made in 1740. The proclamation of banns, and the in-

<FOOTNOTE>signifying a field, an of, and hoif, hoff, hove, houff, hufe, a hall, or burial-place.--See
Chalmers's Caledonia and Jamieson's Scottish Dictionary.
          Annals, Vol. i. p. 2 Edinburgh, 1776.
          See Robertson's Collections for a History of Aberdeenshire.     Ibid.


