
        			MORTON.                                93

wish seem to be, that the rivers of this county, the Esk, the An-
nan, and the Nith, should close and open at the same time as the
Tweed, and in this respect be under the same regulations.
	The Nith and all its branches are poached without interruption
during the whole of the close season, and to such extent that, in
the general opinion, for every salmon taken in the open or legal
season, more than thirty are destroyed in the close period,--a prac-
tice which ruins the health, destroys the industry, corrupts the
morals, and, familiarizing the mind to habitual and open violations
of law, seldom fails to terminate in atrocious and daring acts of
wickedness; while by the toleration of such irregular deeds, thou-
sands of parent fishes are destroyed in the breeding season.
The season when every other animal is not only spared, but pro-
tected and watched with care, is to the finny tribe the season of
insecurity, danger, and destruction. And the breeding fishes,
impelled by an instinct or feeling common to all animated nature,
the provident and wise inspiration of its Author, when in the very
act of bringing forth or providing a place of security wherein to de-
posit their fry, are barbarously destroyed with millions of their
young, destined by Heaven, but for the improvident cruelty of man,
to minister to his comforts, and feed the hungry in coming years.
Nor is there any likelihood of the practice being put a stop to,
until some regulation shall take place, respecting an embankment
or barrier across the river Nith at Dumfries. By this embank-
ment the course or run of the fishes is impeded, almost entirely
prevented, and the fishing properties of the river and its branches
are greatly deteriorated and rendered of very little value in the
upper districts; and hence the proprietors refuse to give their aid,
or be at any expense, to suppress the practice, unless such a run
shall be opened and protected as to render their fishing properties
valuable. It is only when the river is large and swelled by the
autumnal and winter rains, the very time when the river is closed,
that any salmon can overleap the embankment and find their way
up the streams. At other times, and when the river is small, as
is the case during the greater part of the open season, hardly is
there a salmon to be seen in the upper districts, and fishings which
formerly were of great value are at present worth little or nothing.

			II--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Events.--About the centre nearly of the parish stand
the ruins of the old castle or stronghold of Morton, erected, it is


