
     Statistical Account

tle garden, carriage of coals and their victuals in harvest.  A
day-labourer earns between L. 14 and L. 15 yearly; but
from this the rent of his house and garden, which is ordina-
rily about 15 s. is to be deducted.  Their wives are occasion-
ally employed by the farmers on the fields; at other times,
besides earning something by spinning, washing, etc. they
frequently nurse children which turns to great emolument.
Their children are also at times employed by the farmers.
In harvest the wages given to the Highlanders who come in
great numbers to cut down the crop of most part of Scot-
land, are perhaps at an average, about 8 d. a day, with their
victuals.  The expence of living among the common people,
is at least, no greater in general, than their incomes.  How-
ever numerous their families may be, they seldom receive,
nor need any aid from the poor's funds.  Their food consists
of oat-meal porridge, oat-cakes and pease bannocks, barley-
broth, with greens, potatoes, butter-milk and water.  Some
begin now to use wheaten bread and small beer, but seldom
any eat butcher meat.  The luxuries in which they indulge,
are tea, and what is worse, whisky.  Scarcely any fail to put
their children to school to learn English, writing and arith-
metic.  In general, servants, labourers, and tradesmen, live
worse, and perform less labour than in England.  But while
those of the same class in England have better food and
more of it, it appears that in fact, they daily eat up their all;
and hence when their families are any-wife numerous, re-
course must be had to the parish money.  On the contrary,
in Scotland, many half starve themselves, in order to make
savings; not a few lay by several pounds Sterling, which
they reserve for old age, for putting their children to ap-
prenticeships, or for otherwise bettering their own condition,
or that of their families.  A spirit for enterprise and for ris-
ing in the world, characterises the Scots in general; and this


