
56                          SELKIRKSHIRE.

their maximum, till the scarce and dear years at the beginning of
this century.    It appears, too, that pauperhsm has not made much
progress, there being nearly as in many persons on the roll, and as much
allotted to each (allowing for the difference of the value of money)
at first as at present.  The tendency of the system, however, has
been partially felt in relaxing industry, and encouraging improvi-
dence,--in loosening the ties of the nearest kindred, and lowering
the tone of independence,-and leading to insolence or ingratitude.
It is not therefore, from the principld of the system, that no great
evil has arisen but from the countervailing checks,--the aversion of
farmers to have more cottagers than what are necessary for their hus-
bandry, together with the strict economy and surveillance exercised
by the managers of the poors' funds.  Those on the list are chiefly
old women, widows with young helpless families, and persons weak
in body or intellect.  There were several individuals on it lately at
the age of 93.
   Inns.--Three alehouses are kept in the parish, which are abso-
lutely necessary for the accommodation of travellers, but somewhat
demoralizing within a certain sphere.
   Fuel.--Heath, turf, and wood, are burnt by the peasantry, but
in small quantities, for coal and peat are the fuel principally
used.  Coal is brought from the pits in Mid-Lothian, a distance,
on an average, of thirty miles, so that on arriving here, it can-
not be rated lower than 1s.3d. a hundred weight.  A mode of im-
proving peat as fuel, by compression, has lately been introduced by
an ingenious gentleman of this parish, Mr Walter Tod, Lingliope.
From his experiments it appeared, that, by taking an equal weight of
each, this preparation, compared with the best coal, burnt as long,
and gave six degrees more of heat.  Compared with the original peat,
it lasted double the time, and raised the thermometer fourteen de-
grees higher.  By this means, also, fuel can be secured in raiiiy
seasons, and at any leisure time before frost sets in, so that it is to
be hoped the improvement will soon becomes general. *

             VI.-MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   A very considerable change has taken place in the husbandry,
habits, and household economy of the people in this parish, since

<FOOTNOTE>Its importance, however, will be still greater in the arts, especially the melting
of metals.  The various specimens we have seen are beautifully black and com-
pact, and the expence of preparation is trifling; but for a description of the process
itself, we must refer to Mr Tod's Prize Essay in Trans. of Highland Society for 1832.


