
                               KILMADOCK.                      1237

	eight to twelve hours a-day.  The yarn intended for woof or weft
	is upon the mule jenny, a machine invented by a Mr Crompton,
	near Bolton, Lancashire.  It is an adaptation of the twisting pro-
	cess of the old jenny, or meickle wheel of this country, to the draw-
	ing process of Sir Richard Arkwrioht.  Hitherto such machines
	generally been worked by men of great strength and skill,
	who acquired high wages, and were the chief movers in all the
	combinations of the cotton trade.  To obviate the inconvenience
	of these strikes, the attention of mechanical men has been for
	many years directed.  The machines employed here were invent-
	ed by Mr Smith some years ago, for which he holds patents for
	the United Kingdom, most of the countries on the continent of
	Europe, and for America.  The machine is now being extensive-
	ly introduced in the trade generally.  Mr Smith has just com-
	pleted an adaptation of this principle to mules for spinning wool, and
	which is likeiv to be of vast importance in the present rising state
	of the woollen manufactures of our country.
	   "The invention of this machine removes the only laborious and
	slavish employment that remained in the cotton manufacture and
	effects a saving of about 50 per cent, besides producing an article
	of superior quality, and insuring regularity.  It has created a de-
	mand for young females' labour, who are better paid than when-
	they worked under the spinners-tbe money being thus more
	equally distributed.  It gives, besides, to this country an import.
	ant advantage over the cheap labour of other countries.
	   "In preparing the warp for the weaving process, from 500 to
	1000 bobbins are arranged in regular rows in a wooden frame, and
	from these the threads proceed towards a beam, or roller, on
	which they are wound, having a peculiarly beautiful appearance, the
	threads converging towards the mass, like the rays of the sun from
	behind a cloud.  Being collected, the threads are passed through
	a machine wbereb the threads are stiffened, by being immersed
	in a paste formed of flour and glue boiled together with water.
	Brushes attached to mechanism sweep along the surfaces of threads,
	laying all the fibres, and rendering them smooth aud uniform.
	Fanners are put in rapid motion, and blow heated air upon
	mass of threads, so as to render it perfectly dry before being
	placed on the weavers' beam.  From this it is carried to the
	power-loom, where the  whole operations, are performed by me-
	chanism; the young women, who attend two looms each, having
 	merely to supply the woof from time to time, and meud such



