
			KILBIRNE.			    725

While compulsory assessments are deprecated as fraught with ma-
nifold and permanent injuries to the poor and the parishes at large
on which they are imposed, it is strange that, notwithstanding this
belief, voluntary charity will not exert itself to avert the dreaded
evil--thereby showing, that to "feed the hungry, and to clothe
the naked," is, we are afraid, regarded by many, even in this phi-
lanthropic age, more in the light of a hateful imposition, than in
that of a sacred duty. But after all that has been said against
this mode of provision, since there must be a tax for such a pur-
pose, "I know of none," says an eminent authority, "less subver-
sive of industry and morals, than that established in Scotland,
obliging the landholders," and we would add the house proprie-
tors, "in every parish, to meet at stated times, in order to pro-
vide a fund for the poor; but leaving the objects of their charity,
and the measure, to their own humanity and discretion." *
	Fairs.--The principal fair in this place is held on the third
Wednesday of May, old style, and is attended by a great concourse
of people, being the largest horse-market in the west of Scotland.
It is vulgarly called Brinnan's day, which is evidently a corruption
of Brandane's day. The number of horses exhibited for sale at
this fair, has averaged annually, these nine or ten years past, above
700, the aggregate value of which may be estimated between
L. 8000 and L. 9000. Brinnan's day  has likewise been long
celebrated for the sale of cooper-work and culinary utensils, such
as platters, basins, ladles, &c. and spinning-wbeels and reels. A
considerable deal of these articles are still sold, though the de-
mand for turned work for domestic uses is much lessened from what
it was half a century ago, and the wheel and the reel have been
all but superseded. Much general businesses transacted among
the country people at this fair:--rents paid, tradesmen's accounts
settled, new articles bespoken; and until lately, that shops have
everywhere been established, many household want were in a great
measure supplied for the year.
	There used to be other two fairs held in Kilbirnie, the trades-
race, on the first Tuesday of July, and Crawfurd's day, on the last
Tuesday of October, both old styles. The former has gone down,
in despite of the efforts of a few interested publicans to uphold
it; and the other, which was a cow-fair, instituted, it is said, by the
Crawfurds of Kilbirnie, has long since ceased to be a cattle-market,
or even to be observed as a holiday.

<FOOTNOTE>Kames's Sketches of Civil Society--Sk. x.


