
     of King-Edward.

money having in some instances taken place, and every ad-
dition of rent, on renewing a lease, being now in money, this
inconvenience will soon be removed.

   Cattle, Wages etc.-The parish at present maintains 1792
black cattle, 447 horses, and 1334 sheep.  About 400 black
cattle can be spared annually; most of them being sold young,
at or under 3 years old, the average price may be estimated
at 3 L. 15 s.  The number of ploughs is 135, of which 1 s. are
drawn by oxen, 76 by 2 horses, and 44 by 4 horses, each;-
of carts 326, of,which 3 are drawn by oxen, 76 by 2 horses
in a line, and 247 by a single horse each.  By a stronger
breed of horses, and an improved construction of ploughs and
carts, the operations of husbandry are greatly facilitated, and
the increasing price of labour in some measure counterbalan-
ced.  A single man, with a pair of horses, will do more work
in the same time, than was performed by 2 men and 4 horses
40 years ago.  The hire of a man qualified to work a pair of
horses is from 6 L. to 8 L.;-of a woman farm-servant, from
2 L. 10 s. 3 L. per annum;-of a man engaged for harvest 1 L.
10 s.;-of a woman for ditto, 1 L. 1 s. with maintainance.  The
day-labourer earns 8 d. with, or 10 d. without maintenance;
when employed at cutting hay, 1 s. with, or 1 s. 4 d. without
victuals.  Women are chiefly employed in making woollen
and linen cloth for family use, and partly for sale, spinning
flax for the thread and linen manufacturers, knitting stock-
ings, and in the dairy*.

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*About 60 years ago, they were much employed in making a species of
woollen cloth called white???  containing 30 ells each, which were usually
sold at 1 s. per ell.  At the above period, and for some years after, when the
number of sheep was perhaps sometimes what it is at present, this manufacture
must have been very advantageous; but from the desire of present profit, the
cloth was often made so flight and coars, as to ruin a trade, which, under
proper management, might have been of lasting benefit to the country.

</UNREADABLE>


