
                    PARISH OF KILMUIR EASTER.*
                 PRESBYTERY OF TAIN, SYNOD OF ROSS.
               THE REV. CHARLES R. MATHISON, MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name-Boundaries.-THE original name of this parish signifies
the grave, or the chapel of Mary.
   The parish lies partly in the county of Ross, and partly in the
county of Cromarty, owing to the circumstance of George, the
first Earl of Cromarty, having possessed considerable property in
it, and his having obtained the privilege of erecting his whole land-
ed property in Scotland into a separate county, called  the county
of Cromarty.Thir roperty forms a part of many parishes in the
synod of Ross; and all these parishes are partly connected with
the counties of Ross and Cromarty.
    Extent, &c.-This parish is about 10 miles in its greatest length,
and 4 miles broad. It is bounded on the west, by the parish of
Rosskeen; on the east, by Logggie Easter; on the north, by Ed-
derton and Kincardine; and on the south, by the sands of Nigg,
and the Frith of Cromarty. The superficial contents of the parish
may be estimated at 17,000 acres.
    Topographical Appearances.-The soil of the parish is various;
but of late years, it has been greatly improved, especially in the
lower parts, which border on the shore of the Fritb of Cromarty.
The whole of this range, including the Mains of New Tarbat, is
now in a fine state of cultivation, and adorned with plantations.
The higher grounds contain a great quantity of barren muir, in-
termixed with natural wood, and fit only for the pasture of sheep.
The soil is, in general, of a light gravelly nature in those parts
which are cultivated; but there is also a considerable quantity of
moss. The coast is flat, and composed of red sandstone. At
the recess of the tide, the sea retires very far; and leaves an al-
most uninterrupted passage to the opposite parish of Nigg. The

<Footnote>Drawn up by Mr Donald Munro, Parochial. Schoolmaster of Kilmuir Easter,
           and Preabher of the Gospel.


