
                              FORGAN.                              515

         of spring tides. This work was designed by the late Sir Thomas
	Telford.
              Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in a most beautiful
	and sequestered spot-but being at the south-east extremity of the
	parish, it is very inconvenient for the population in general, and
	particularly for those resident in the villages along the banks of
	the Tay, from whom it is distant from three to four miles. The
	date of its erection is not known. It formed one of the priory
	kirks belonging to St Andrews, and was built, according to tra-
	dition, in its present site, for the special accommodation of a
	wealthy lady resident in the adjoining mansion-house of Kirkton,
	who contributed largely of her substance for that purpose. It receiv-
	ed a thorough repair in the year 1770, and was reseated at the com-
	mencement of the present century. It is sealed for about 360, so
	that the extent of church accommodation is greatly under what is
	required for the population. During the last year, the heritors
	have contemplated the erection of a new church in a more central
	situation. And although some difficulty has been experienced in
	determining the site that would prove most advantageous for the
	parishioners, it is to be hoped, that this inestimable boon will not
	be long withheld, as it is at present impossible for the aged, the
	infirm, and the young to enjoy the benefits of religious instruction
	in the parish church.
              There is a meeting house near Newport in connection with the
	Independents. The number of families belonging to it is about
	10, and the clergyman is an individual who is highly respected for
	his personal piety, and his anxious endeavours to benefit the neigh-
	bourhood in which he'resides.
              The manse, which is in good condition, was built in 1803. The
	stipend is 15 chalders and 6 bolls of meal and barley in equal
	proportions. The grebe contains upwards of 9 acres.
              Education.-There are two schools in the parish.  The paro-
	chial teachees salary is the maximum, and the, brauches taught
	are, English, writing, arithmetic, geography, practical mathema-
	tics, Latin, and French.  The number of scholars  is about 120
	and the fees, varying from 2s. 6d. to 5s. per quarter, amount to
	L.24 per annum.
              A new school house was erected by the heritors about ten years
         ago, in a central part of the parish, in consequence of which
         the attendance has greatly increased. And an excellent dwelling.


