
832                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

wooded to the tops. Ordfundlie divides the south from the mid-
dle or centre division of the parish.  The level ground in these
two divisions is betwixt 400 and 500 feet above the level of the
sea; the northern division of the parish a degree higher.
   Hydrography.-The average breadth of the river Dee here is
from 60 to 70 yards. When salmon are abundant in the river
considerable numbers are killed here with the fly.  Two miles be-
low the village, a beautiful and substantial bridge of granite was
built in 1812, at an expense of L.3500, one-half defrayed by Go-
vernment, and the other half by subscription.  The bridge has
three arches, the centre arch 65 feet span, and the other two 60
each. When all the pillars or piers were built and two of the
arches thrown, the whole was destroyed by rough timber floating
down, when the river was high.  On that occasion, the contractor,
Mr Minty, recovered L.1200 of damages off the owners of the
timber.  By the great flood in August 1829, two of the piers were
considerably injured; but were afterwards thoroughly repaired and
bolted with bars of iron by the original contractor.  This bridge is in
the line of the old military road leading from Perth by Brechin, over
the Cairn o' Mount, through this village to Huntly and Inverness.
From the bridge to Huntly an excellent road has been made; but
as no carriage road has yet been completed from it southward,
much of the utility of this handsome edifice is lost to the public.
But it is hoped a read to Cuttishillock, on this side of the Mount,
part of which was made last year, will soon be completed.
   The only other stream of note that runs through the parish is
the burn of Belty, which, rising in the bills in the north-west cor-
ner of the parish, takes a diagonal course south-east, through
the centre division, dividing it into nearly equal parts, and joins the
Dee in the parish of Banchory.  This stream, comparatively in-
significant in its ordinary state, occasionally, when flooded, becomes
a torrent, and the ground on its banks being level, it does much
injury to the occupiers.  In 1799 and 1829, by covering the crops
then on the ground with mud, and sand, it occasioned immense
loss.  In the latter year, this stream carried off two bridges com-
pletely, and much injured three more, all built of stone and lime.
The valley through which it runs comprises the largest division of
the parish, and much of the soil on its banks being alluvial, and
the subsoil mostly clay is regarded as the deepest and best in the
parish.  Along the banks of the Dee the soil is light, sharp, and
early.


