
     Of Auchterless.

ly as 2 to 3.  No monumental, or inscriptional stones, bricks,
pottery, heads of spears, belts, spurs, or coins, brass, copper
or silver, have been yet discovered to demonstrate by what na-

     R r 2

<FOOTNOTE>

that kind as yet, lower down the river than the above mentioned fragment at
the foot of the Berry-hill.  Neither is it any objection that the stream is too
inconsiderable to be called by any proper permanent name within a short mile
of its source, by a foreign nation; but that river, rather brook, is no sooner de-
parted from its two springs, than it is called Ythan, and even those are called
the Wells of Ythan; and it is well known to all who have perused the Roman
Itineraries, that names given by indigenous inhabitants, especially of rivers, are
retained with no other alteration than giving them a Latin termination: Such as
Hierna, the Erne; Tina, the Tine; Taus the Ta, or Tay; Esica, the Esk; Dona,
the Don, etc. Ithuna, the Ythan.  The ingenious author (Captain A. S.) of
the investigations, just recited, was at first inclined to believe the Statio ad Ithu-
ham, was the work of the Emperor Severus, yet some of the best informed, and
learned antiquaries will have it, that all the posts N. of the Grampians were
constructed by Lollius Urbicus, the brave and gallant Lieutenant of Antoninus;
and the late ingenious Major-General Roy, a, soon as he perused the plan of
Glenmailen and environs, with its explanation and references, put it down im-
mediately in his Mappa Britann‘ Septentrionalis, Castra Agricol‘.  Therefore,
it is to be presumed, at will be published in the next edition of the General's
map of Scotland, and that some account of it wall be given in the Appendix to
his Posthumous Work, now probably printing off by the Society of London An-
tiquaries, to whom one of his manuscripts was bequeathed by latter will, the
other remaining in the King's library.
The same ingenious gentleman, to whom the public is indebted for these
observations takes notice that something more should have been introduced
about the Roman roads, as he is of opinion that the investigation of the great
vice consulates, and also the vicinales, is of more importance than a knowledge
of the camps; but having heard that the late Mr. Lawtie of Fordyce, had
made a discovery of some very ancient roads passing in a N W. direction through
the parish of Deskford, he did not add any thing farther on that subject, as Mr.
Lawtie, no doubt, had taken notice of that in his report.  Only the gentleman
observes, if the intelligence concerning Mr. Lawtie is well grounded, it makes
him still the more inclinable to believe, that the track of the itinerary, crossed
the Ythan and the Devoran rather at Glenmailen and Auchingoul, than at
points lower down the river, and that it is by no means impossible that there
may be found some part of it passing through this parish.  He also takes notice,


