
			STEVENSTON.                            465

   The Vans on the Ardrossan and Johnstone railroad pass, like
the coaches, through this parish. Along this railroad, pass also
all the coal and stone, &c. to be shipped at Ardrossan and Salt-
coats harbours, amounting last year to about 60,000 tons.
   Ecclesiastical State.--In entering on the ecclesiastical depart-
ment of this Report, we shall, as far as the gnawing tooth of time
has left us materials, give a list of the ministers of this parish.
   The first whose name we have been able to discover is Mr Stephen
Wilkynsoune, curate of Steynstoune in 1547. We doubt not that
he was a Roman Catholic. Our great Scottish Reformer Knox had
begun to preach; but having been among those in the Castle of St
Andrews, who, after a brave and vigorous resistance, had been under
the necessity of capitulating on honourable terms, he had been car-
ried to France, and in violation of the terms of capitulation, was at
this time a chained captive aboard one of the French galleys. * The
following extract from the records of the Commissary Court of Glas-
gow gives us the name of this curate as witness to a will; and in-
forms us also, that our old church was dedicated to St Monach or
Monk. Archibald Weyr, whose will is dated 7th October 1547,
thus stipulates, "Do et lego, &c.  * * * * corpusque meum
sepeliendum Ecclesiƒ Sancti Monachi de Steynstoune." "Tes-
tis Dominus Stepbanus Wilkynsoune, Curatus de Steynstoune."
   Mr James Walcar (Walker) is the next we meet. His name
is found in the "Register of Ministers, as vicar and minister of
Stivenstoune in 1567." His stipend is L. 40 Scots, or L. 3, 6s. 8d.
Sterling, with "the thryd of his vicarage," but the amount of this
is not mentioned.
   In the Register of Ministers we find "Mr Archibald Crawfuird
in Mr Walcar's rowme sen Beltym 1569; and 50 merkis mair sen
the same tyme." And we find him again mentioned as minister
of Stevinstoun in 1576, when his stipend was L. 100 Scots, or
L. 8, 6s. 8d. Sterling, and probably with "the thryd of his vica-
rage," which appears to have been a general grant about that time.
   The fourth we have fallen in with is "Maister Alexander Camp-
bell, Personne, Minister and Viccar of the Paroche Kirk and Pa-
rochine of Stinstoune" in 1606. We find his signature to a lease
of the teinds of the parish, dated 1606. The original lease is in
the charter-chest at Sea-Bank. Better had it been for this "Per-
sonne's" memory, if this abiding litera scripta had been buried in
the tomb of the Capulets. This lease shows that Mr Campbell

<FOOTNOTE>M'Crie's Life of Knox.
	AYR.                    G g


