
182                        FIFESHIRE.

sidence of Sir Robert Mowbray, Knight, one of the heritors of the
parish. On the northern bank, is situated the old mansion-house
of Otterston, whence the lake derives its name, which is at present
occupied by Lady Torrens, widow of the late' Sir Henry Torrens.
The lake and all the lands of Otterston form part of the estate
of Sir Robert Mowbray of Cockairney. The blending of hill and
dale, of wood and water, in this spot, renders it a scene of no com-
mon beauty.
  There is a picturesquely situated waterfall on the adjoining
grounds of Fordel. The stream which forms it winds its course
for a considerable way through a darkly wooded glen, where it
meets with the outlet of water from the great drainage level of the
Fordel colliery, and then rushes over a broken rocky precipice
of about fifty feet in height. Near the termination of this glen
there is a mineral well, a minute analysis of which is to be found
in Professor Jameson's Philosophical Journal for the year 1829.
  Geology and Mineraloqy.-The minerals known in this parish
belong to the secondary series of rocks ; and, so far as they have
yet been discovered, may be said to abound in sandstone, bitumi-
nous shale, quartz, rock-limestone, and coal. The general dip of
the strata is north-east, varying, in some places, from the disloca-
tions of the minerals by dikes, which, according to their magni-
tude, more or less derange and alter it. Sandstone abounds all
over the parish; but it is of more value in the southern than in
the northern division. About the centre of the parish there is
a thick bed of exceedingly bard quartz rock. It does not ap-
pear at the surface, except in two or three places, being generally
concealed by a thick covering of earth. Limestone, which con-
stitutes the basis of the coal formation, extends regularly through-
out the parish, under the coal. It is found about 50 fathoms
underneath the lower bed of coal, and from the basin shape
of the minerals, the lime seldom or ever makes its appearance at
the surface; but it is to be found in considerable quantities both
to the east and west, in the adjoining parishes of Aberdour and In-
verkeithing.
  Fordel coal-works.-Coal, the mineral of the greatest importance,
abounds in considerable quantities in this parish. The extensive
coal-works on the estate of Fordel, the property of Admiral Sir P. C.
H.Durham, G. C. B. form the principal feature of this parish, and
the great source of its trade and revenue. The coal on the lands
of Fordel has been wrought for nearly 240 years. This has been
a valuable property; but its value is now much diminished, in con-


