
                            DALMELLINGTON.                   309

being a continuation of the lofty ridge on the east side of Loch
Doon, and the other rising from the foot of Cairnsmuir. The
third ridge is from New Cumnock, and crosses the foot of one of
the others. Its direction is nearly south-west. The lower part
of the parish is nearly one entire ridge of eminences, terminating
abruptly to the east, and receiving at its different elevations the
names of Benwhat, Benbraniachan, and Benbeoch. The only
flat land in the parish is between this ridge and the Doon. It
may be a mile in breadth just below the village, and extends about
three miles along the Doon, terminating in a point in both direc-
tions. The hills are chiefly of easy ascent. In three places only
are they for short distances precipitous. Benbeoch terminates
the lower ridge to the east in a range of magnificent basaltic co-
lumns, nearly 300 feet in height, and double that extent in breadth.
Along the road to Carsphairn (the Dumfries road) for fully a mile,
the ridges on either side approach so near as to form a deep pass,
through which there is space for only the road and a narrow stream
to wind themselves. A still more precipitous pass presents itself
on the other side of the extremity of the Loch Doon range, where
the river issues from the loch. There, for a mile, the rocky per-
pendicular precipices approach within thirty feet of each other, and
at some points rise 300 feet above the bed of the river. This is
a favourite resort of the tourist of the lochs. A footpath was
made by a late proprietor along the south side of the river, and
just about the height of its winter torrents. Its present proprie-
tor, whose residence is but a few hundred yards from the foot of
the glen, has contrived to beautify it as much as its rocky gran-
deur will admit of; but its rude natural sublimity, and the deafening
dashing of the white torrent along its rocky bed, will ever remain
its grand attraction, and make its minor beauties almost unknown
and unheeded. This pass, which has given to it the name of the
Glen of Ness, or the Craigs of Ness, is the beginning of the val-
ley of the Doon, which farther down widens out into rich and ex-
tensive meadows. Looking up the valley from near the foot of
the parish, the flat land presents the enclosed figure of a triangle,
widening out before the eye, till it reaches the high land abovd
the village, beyond which the mountains of Galloway close the
prospect. The village, which lies imbedded in a sheltered nook
at the north-east corner of the meadow land, is estimated to be
400 feet above the level of the sea. The highest of the surround-
ing hills amounts not to above 750 feet more.


