
     Statistical Account

cotton weavers are making greater exertions, and larger houses 
are built for them.  The magistrates have long provided the 
community with excellent flour, barley, corn, and fulling 
mills.  Dr. James Hay of Haystown, besides improving his 
valuable estate, and setting an example of general improve-
ment, has built a lint-mill for the accommodation of the 
country.  Mr. William Ker of Kerfield, has erected one of 
the completest breweries and distilleries, and made a new and 
useful improvement in the art of brewing:  Perceiving a part 
of the fine effluvia of the hop to fly off during the boiling of 
the worts, he contrived a most ingenious and effectual method 
of preserving it.  He covers his copper with a close, but 
moveable top of the same metal, having a pipe descending 
from it, and carried through cold water, like the worm of a 
still, by which means the steam is condensed and conducted 
into a common receiver, where the oil of the hop floating on 
the surface of the watery part, is skimmed off, and returned
into the worts when the boiling is finished.  By this means a 
third of the hop is saved, and the most aromatic part of it is 
preserved, to as to give the beer a finer flavour, and keeps it 
from souring till it is brought to a greater age and excellence.
He has formed a design of erecting a woollen manufacture ac-
cording to the most approved plan, which will also be of ge-
neral utility.-By the great increase of trade and opulence, 
the price of labour of all kinds has increased one third part 
within these twenty years.  Men servants have 6 L. or 7 L., and 
maid servants 3 L.  Sterling of yearly wages, besides their vic-
tuals.  Common labourers have 1 s. a-day, without victuals, 
and masons and carpenters 1 s. 6 d.  All classes are better edu-
cated, better lodge, better clothed and fed than in former 
times.  It is also happy for those in the lower classes, that 
though Peebles is the throughfare for oatmeal, carried from 
the richer corn country on the east, to the mining and manu-


