
     Statistical Account

land, but especially from England.  For if free-stones are
conveyed to London from the country north of Aberdeen on
the east coast, and from Stevenston in the county of Ayr on
the west, they certainly might be conveyed with equal advan-
tage from Kilsyth.  The great canal passes within less than a
mile of this quarry; and I am persuaded, that a load of Kil-
syth free-stone either roughly formed or in the block, would
be a valuable commodity of the kind.  For if sold in Lon-
don at L. 1:12 s. the ton, as free-stone of inferior quality is,
it might furnish a very liberal freight, or as ballast prove a
profitable branch of trade.
   The post is generally from 10 to 15 feet, and lies upon a
seam of coal about as many inches thick.  There are a great
variety of coal stalks, rising from this seam, like trees from
the surface of the earth.  Some of them are 6, 10, or 20 feet
long in proportion to the depth of the free-stone; and they
differ as much in diameter as in length, being of all sizes
from an inch to 2 feet.  These are justly esteemed by philo-
sophers objects of great curiosity.  And they have fur-
nished matter for much speculation; they resemble exceed-
ly a petrifaction: and yet the substance is not calcarious earth,
but solid free-stone of similar texture with the circumjacent
rock.  I have in my possession, one the largest and most beau-
tiful that has hitherto been found.  It is nearly 16 inches in
diameter, and 6 feet 9 inches in length, of a compact solid
mass.  For the original stem when entire was upwards of
12 feet long; but the top, as is generally the case, was less
solid, and mouldered down or was easily broken when ex-
posed to the open air.  In shape, colour, and appearance,
it precisely resembles the trunk of a thorn tree; in so much,
that every stranger at first view supposes it to be one.  It seems
to be of equal solidity with any part of the mass; and the
surface of it is beautifully fretted with regular indentations


