
424                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of the river.  The only other bridge over Gala, except at Gala.
shiels, is a handsome and substantial one, built by the present pro-
prietor of Torwoodlee, solely at his own expense, about thirty
years ago, to afford him access to the new road, of which a part
in that quarter was then made.
   Under the head of bridges, we must not omit to mention a very
good and commodious one built, about fifty years ago, by the
county of Edinburgh over Lugate Water.
   Upon the estate of Stow alone, since the year 1826, there have
been above 28,000 roods of fences erected by the proprietor and
tenants at an outlay of upwards of L. 7000; thus enabling the
tenant to cultivate his lands agreeably to the best system of mo-
dern husbandry; and the improvement in the breeding and feed-
ing of farm stock of every description has kept pace with more
favoured districts of the country, where the climate and soil are
more genial.
   Draining has also been carried on to a great extent and with
manifest advantage, the proprietors, for the most part, bearing a
proportion of the expense.  The main or leading drains are cut to
the depth of from 36 to 42 inches, and the lateral or furrow drains
from 28 to 30 inches in depth; these have had the effect of me-
liorating the climate, rendering the wet land fit for green crops,
and making our harvest earlier.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is about nine miles, by
the public road, from the extremities of the parish in either direc-
tion; and as the greater part of the population is within a couple
miles from the highway, on either side of the river, the church is
as conveniently situate as the case will admit.
   The church must have been built at a very remote period, and
long before the reformation of religion in this country.  It has
undergone various alterations as well as repairs.
  As to free sittings, there is here, as in other landward parishes,
no other thing than free sittings, and no such thing as seat-letting.
As the law requires the church to be built and kept in repair by
the heritors, the area is divided among them according to their
valued rents, which now regulates their assessments.  The pro-
prietor and his tenants have a right to occupy the space thus al-
located, which, however, is by no means always proportioned either
to the extent of property or the assessment levied.
   Stow was a mensal church of the Archbishop of St Andrews.
   Manse, Offices, &c.--The present manse was built in 1782, and
                                 4


