
			                  LADY. 	                     147

	ed, that the value of house and farming utensils required in steel-
	how, is so mere a trifle in comparison of the value of the whole
	stocking actually necessary, that it can afford no temptation to
	any farmer to compete.  The practice, therefore, does neither good
	nor harm.
	   On the mode of farming I have only further to add, that it is
	the practice of our farmers to begin sowing as early as possible on
	sandy soils.  Accordingly, oat-seed commences about the Ist of
	February, old style, that is the 12th of February, new style.  Oats
	are therefore sown from the Ist of February to the middle or end
	of March,--as our farmers are of Opinion that it cannot be sown too
	early, especially in dry and sandy soils.  In such soils, they gene-
	rally sow in furrow, or, in other words, sow first, and plough down
	the seed, to protect it from sand blowing.
	   The gross rent of Lady parish is as follows:
	<TABLE>
		Rent in bear, 1338 meils, at 6s. 8d. per meil,          L.446  0  0
		Do. in oatmeal, 28 bolls, at 16s. per boll,                22  8  0
		Do. in kelp, 130 tons, at L.4 per ton,		          520  0  0
		Do. paid in cash,				         1214 12  0
									-----------
							               L.2203  0  0
	   Harvest generally begins in the first or second week of Sep-
	tember, and ends about the middle of October, when the crop is
	carried to the barn-yard.  We do not put the sheaves in stooks,
	as in the south country, but in miniature stacks, termed here
	skrews.  When the sheaves are large, a threave is generally put
	in each skrew; but if they are of a moderate size, a threave and a
	half.  Our farmers are of opinion that this mode is preferable to
	stooking, by protecting the grain from rain, and exposing it to the
	wind, so that it is thoroughly dried, before it is conveyed to the
	corn-yard.
	   The number of carts in Lady parish is 118.  It is a remarkable
	fact, that, at the date of the old Statistical Account of Sanday, the
	whole island contained only 36 carts ; there are now, therefore,
	82 more carts in Lady parish than were, at that period, in all the
	three parishes which composed our island.
	   The number of ploughs is 83.  For each of these, three horses
	may be allowed, two to till, and one to barrow,-making a total of
	249,-an amount rather under, than above the truth.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   This parish, as already mentioned, contains a church termed
	Lady Kirk.  Some years ago, it was rebuilt, and is now large, and


