
              PETTIE. 				    	391

where his father resided when Sir James was born. The family
burying-ground, in which his father was the last who was interred,
was within the walls in the east end of the old church of Pettie,
on the foundations of which the present one has been erected.
Besides the eminent names which we have mentioned, we are en-
titled to notice also that of James Clark, Esq., who died at Naples
about the close of the last century. He had evinced a genius for
painting when a youth, and, by the aid of contributions from the lo-
cal gentry, and some assistance from relatives, he was enabled to visit
and reside for some time in Italx. In token of his attachment to his
native country, and of his obligations to those who had befriended
him, be bequeathed "to the Directors and Governor of the new es-
tablisbed Academy in Inverness a picture of the Holy Family, Jesus
Christ, the Virgin Mary, Joseph, and St John, by Sassoferato, to
be placed in the hall of the Academy," where the picture is now
to be seen. The records of the Inverness Academy contain the
extract from his will, and the correspondence with his brother, Mr
Alexander Clark, London. We have reason to believe that these
gentlemen belonged to the Clarks of Pettie.
   We can claim but one native author, a man in humble life, who
could neither write nor read. He died about two years ago, at the
age of fourscore and upwards. He was a man, although eccentric,
of decided piety and genius, and much esteemed by all who knew
him. His memorial on earth is a small volume of " Spiritual Songs,
by Donald M,Rae."  Although this may fall into oblivion,-a
fate which good judges say it does not deserve,-there is reason
to believe that his record on high will be eternal.

Antiquities.-The chief object of antiquity is Castle Stuart, a
fine and very entire spicemen of the baronial architecture of the
country during the period of feudal grandeur. It is remarkable
for the extent of its projections, square and round, which spring
from a series of corbels, on several angles of the buildings.
date of its erection, inscribed on one of the front windows, is 1625.
But Sir R. Gordon, in recording an event which had happened
in 1624, describes the Castle as a house "now of late built."
   In the plantation opposite the school-house is Tom-a-mhoid or
Court-hill, and Tom-a-chroich or Gallow-bill. The former is said
to have been the favourite abode of fairies: and a tory is  told
of a farmer's wife having been detained amongst them for a whole
year, without being sensible of the,lapse of time, and afterwards
returning home, to the surprise and delight of her friends.  It is
			          4


