
     of Canisbay.

through the winter; but the principal manure along the coast,
is tang or sea ware: it comes ashore in the greatest abundance
during the spring months, when it is most needed.  A
wind blowing from the land brings the ware from the sea.-
This manure is solely appropriated to the barley crop.  It is
a powerful cleanser of the soil, coalesces with it in the shortest
space, exerts anti exhausts its nutritive virtues in the nourish-
ment of one crop.  In whatever manner it is laid upon the
field, it is a manure of the first estimation.  Dunghills con-
sisting of earth and ware, of 6 or 12 month's standing, seem
the most eligible preparation of this valuable manure for the
soil.  From the constant use of sea-ware as a manure, along
with the constituent qualities of the soil, the cultivated lands
in most parts of the parish, are as fine and friable as garden
mould, and are cultivated in general with less strength, than,
comparatively speaking, is found requisite in other places of
the country.  The soil being perfecftly clear of latent rock,
the plough is made of the slightest construction; and, in ge-
neral, both plough and cattle do not exceed 10 L. Sterling in
value*.

     T 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Oats are begun to be sown about the first week of April, and barley about
the 12th of May, nor is the season gone for the sowing of the latter so late as
the 21st of June.  Harvest begins about the 1st of September, and is in general
finished in the course of a month.  Gray and black oats are the common growth
of the parish as they are over all Caithness.  They unquestionably accord better
with the soil and climate, than the white oat.  The latter is not only a greater
robber of the soil, but is far more liable to shake in harvest, than the former.
Bread of the white oats is stronger, and perhaps somewhat fairer, but by no
means superior in taste and mellowness-A man servant gets little short of 3 L.
Sterling per annum, and a woman half as much Day labourers are seldom em-
ployed:  They may he had at about 9 d. per day without victuals.  Mason and
joirer work is fully higher them in any part of Scotland.  Carts are in common
use throughout the parish.


