
                    AUCHINDOIR AND KEARN.                     413

   The only village in the parish is Lumsden, already mentioned.
The reporter can hardly say that it is as yet marked by the more
striking features of great prosperity.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is, on the whole, not
inconveniently situated.  It was built in 1811, and its only fault
is that it is too small for the existing population.  It contains ac-
commodation for 450 sitters only.  There are in these parishes
10 individuals belonging to the United Secession; 8 Indepen-
dents; and two Roman Catholics.  The members, also, of one
family of the resident heritors are Episcopalians; but the mem-
bers of this family regularly attend the parish church, there being
no Episcopal place of worship in the neighbourhood.
   The present incumbents of the parishes under notice are, the
Rev. James Reid, and the Rev. William Reid, assistant and suc-
cessor.  The former of these clergymen was inducted in 1785,
and the latter in 1834.  The manse was built in 1764; it is in-
commodious, and in very bad repair.  The stipend of the united
parisbes is L. 150.  The proper glebe of Auchindoir is 8 acres
in extent; and a compensation of excambion for the grebe of For-
bes affords a rent of L. 8, 2s. 6d.
   Education.-There is only one parochial school for both pa-
rishes, with two or three unendowed schools.  The schoolmaster's
salary is L. 30 ; the average amount of school-fees, L. 21.  He
has the legal accommodations.  The branches of education taught
at the parochial school are, Latin, English, mathematics, geo-
grapby, arithmetic, and writing.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor per-
sons receiving parochial aid is 22.  The annual amount of parish
church collections for their relief is about L. 32, with about L. 14
additional from two mortifications and other sources.  The wbole
of this is divided among them, and, small as it is, yet it seems
sufficient for supplying their necessities.  There is a manifest re-
luctance on their part to be indebted to parochial relief, which
leads to industry and economy.  For many years, there has been
no strolling beggar belonging to these parishes.
   Fairs.-Four cattle markets are held in the parish during the
year.
   Inns.-There are one inn and three ale-houses.  The latter
cannot be described as a blessing.
   Fuel.-The fuel in general use is peat.  Coal is extremely ex-
pensive.  The carriage of it from the coast is more costly than the


