
     230                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

     mountable obstacle inthe way of any rural improvement. To per-
     sons in such low circumstances a lease would be of no advantage,
     and as little would the proprietors be disposed to grant, them one.
     In the whole parish, there is only one farm held on lease.
       Fisheries.-There is a kind of stake salmon-fishing in the pa-
     rish. The tenant is a south countryman, in company with some
     others. They hold the whole fishing on Lord Macdonald's pro-
     perty. The fish is cured in the, village of Portree, and is sent off
     by steam for Glasgow, and sometimes hence for London. They
     pay ascertain small rent for the whole fishing of five parishes. One
     of those stations is relinquished, as not paying the expense. The
     station in this parish is the next to that in point of success, and con-
     sequently cannot be productive to any profitable extent. There
     is no separate rent exigible for the fishing of it. The herring
     fishing, some years ago, was carried on here with considerable suc-
     cess. In fine evening in the month of July or August, when all
     the boats belonging to this parish, together with those belonging
     to the adjacent parishes of Glenelg, Lochalsh, Lochcarron, Ap-
     plecross, Gairloch, and Lochbroom, and with them boats belong-
     ing to vessels from fifty to seventy sails in number, appeared in the
     sound of Rasay, a most delightful scene was exhibited. But the
     most agreeable and. the most useful of all exhibitions was their
     return to the harbour next day, deeply laden with the rich-
     est and most delicious herrings. It is a matter deeply to be re-
     gretted, Abat the herring fishing in this quarter has been much
     on the decline for several years past, so. much so, that failure in
     this branch of industry, together with other causes operation, in-
     juriously, produced the ever-memorable destitution of the years
     1836 and 1837. And were it not for the seasonable relief afford-
     ed by public contributions in every part of the British empire,
     both at home and abroad, the great body of the lower order of the
     community would have been swept off by the most appalling star-
     vation. Indeed there is reason to fear that the herring-fishing
     will altogether disappear on the coast of this parish. This sta-
     tion was never so productive in herrings as were once Lochmad-
     dy in North Uist, Lochrog in Lewis, several arms of the sea in
     South Uist, and on the west side of the Isle of Skye; and now in
     all these different localities, there is no fishing of any consequence.
     And why may not that happen also on the coast of this parish?
     And should that unfortunately be the case, what will


