
    355                 KILBARCHAN.

Renfrew, east; Inchinnan and Erskine, north-east; Houston and
Kilellan, north; and Kilmalcolm, northwest. Thus, by its cen-
tral position, and great length, as compared with its breadth, it
bounds with a greater number of parishes than any other in Ren-
frewsbire.
Topographical Appearances.-Its aspect, without any very re-
markably bold or striking features, is picturesque, being well
wooded, and varied by many rising grounds. It is most elevated
towards the west and north-west where it joins the parisbes of
Lochwinnoch and Kilmalcolm; within the former of which at
the distance of some miles, the Misty Law, not unfrequently
snow-capt-oftener cloud-capt, -ar the very name indicates,ex-
hibits to the wide range of the surrounding country a series of di-
versified aspects, in which every practised eye has learned to ex-
pound the symptoms of each successive change of weather. Of
Kilbarchan parish, the eastern district is, in generals level and
fertile, stretching across, on both sides, from the Gryfe to the
Black Cart; which latter river, in a course not fir from rectili-
Deal, divides Refrewshire into two equal parts. Its course is
from Castlesemple Loch to its confluence with the Clyde, below
Inchinnan bridges; at which the White Cart, swelled by its tribu-
taries, the Levern from Neilston parish, with other minor streams
from the eastward Eaglesbam and Mearns, enlarge the embou-
chure of a river, which, though Of DO very long courses gathers its
waters over the entire length and breadth of the county, from the
borders of Cathcart to the heights that overhang Greenock;-the
Shaws water and rivulet of the Kypp alone excepted.
About the centre of this parish, there rises to the eastward of
the "hill-bounded vale," a somewhat detached eminence, called
the Barr Hill, stretching onwards for a mile or tlierebv, where,
after a covered walk or drive of considerable extent, you are agree-
ablv surprised by a fine opening on the house and pleasure-ground'
of Milliken. Rising precipitately on the north, and sloping gree
dually to the south and southeast, its steep greenstone rocks,
tbickly-coverect with dark fir and other well-grown wood, fringing
the summit, and projected on the azure sky, the whole presents to
the eye a very striking and bold feature in the landscape. Even
where the roots of the fir have inserted themselves in the rifted
rock, or amid the rude masses which time and frost, by its action
on the water in the fissures, have burled from above, the growth
and vigour of the wood exceed all expectation.


