
     of Rathven.

   Poor, and State of their Funds.-The poor subsist by
begging, and occasional supplies from the parochial fund.
Notwithstanding the extent of the parish, it does not at
present amount to above L. 50, of which L. 40 is out at
interest.  The above has been saved from the weekly col-
lections, the use of a pall or mortcloth, and fines from de-
linquents.  The weekly collections, and other contingen-
cies for the year 1792, amounted in whole to L. 14, 12 s.
The management of it, and of the whole funds, is, as in
most parts of Scotland, intrusted to the church session.
After paying L. 2 to the session clerk, and L. 1, 1 s. to the
officer, the remainder is divided quarterley among the most
necessitous of all description. Last year, 30 poor persons
received benefit from this small fund.  In addition to the
above, Lord Findlater orders an annual distribution of

<FOOTNOTE>

been devised, nor any measures adopted to prevent men, who have had
an University education, and spent their time and talents in teaching our
children the elements of literature, and principles of religion, from feel-
ing the accumulated evils of frailty and poverty in their old age.
   The Society for propagating Christian Knowledge, has 2 schools in
the parish; one at Buckie, with a salary of L. 14 to the master; and one
at Couffurrach, near the Enzie Chapel, with a salary of L. 10 to the ma-
ster, and L. 5 to his wife. In the course of the year, there are about
100 scholars at each of these schools. Their numbers show the propriety
of planting and continuing schools in these stations, and their importance
to the public.  The latter school is only of 2 years standing; and the
master is in possession of the accommodations required by the Society's
regulations. He owes his present comfortable situation to the bounty of
his Grace the Duke of Gordon.  And I am proud to add, that above L. 300
of the Society's money are annually paid to their schoolmasters on the
Duke's different estates, all accommodated by his munisicene.  Such
disinterested liberality does honour to his feelings as a man, and is a sub-
stantial proof of the interest he takes in promoting the good of society,
and the cause of religion.
   It is believed, that the Society has not, in Scotland, a more important
station than Buckie. It contains upwards of 700 inhabitants, who have
 

