
238                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

mortified the lands of Bogfairlie and the lands of Pettens in Bel-
helvy, to Saint Nicholas Church in Aberdeen.
   The death of Mr Davidson did not prevent the incorporation of
the new church with the Established Church; for in 1666 the
persons interested in the concern, and authorized to act, applied
to the Lords Commissioners for Planting Kirks for a diljunction
of a certain district of Saint Machar around the church built by
Mr Davidson. and its erection into a parish; which application,
having the consent of all parties, was successful, and the de-
creet of the Lords Commissioners accordingly was obtained that
year.
   Since that time the parish has continued separate and distinct,
and possesses all the privileges and rights which belong to the other
parishes of the Established Church of Scotland.
   Name.-It appeared to have been the desire of the applicants
to give to this newly erected parish a name in some degree resem-
bling the name of the mortified lands of "Keppelhills," and hence
it was denominated "Newhills."
   Extent.-The extent of the parish is very considerable.  It is
reckoned to contain about 30 square miles, being about 6 miles
in length, and 5 in breadth.  It is of an irregular form, and is
bounded on the east by the river Don; towards the south, by the
parish of Peterculter and Nether Banchory; towards the north, by
the parish of Dyce and Kinellar; and towards the south-east, by
Saint Machar, from which it was originally disjoined.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Mansion rouses.-Some of the heritors have beautiful seats,
particularly Mr Forbes of Springhill, and Mr Robertson of Hazel-
head.  The places of Sheddocksley, of Fairley, of Crailston, of
Cloghill, of Gateside, of Waterton, and the Place of Newhills,
(the seat and property of the minister, which has been very much
improved by him,) are all of them much admired.

                          III.-POPULATION.
   There is a considerable part of this parish, especially westward,
of a hilly nature, some of which is covered with wood, and part
only with heath and stones; but, notwithstanding of this, there is
a great and increasing population.  In the year 1775, the amount
of the population was only 959, and in 1792 it was 1153; but at
last census, it was found to be 2255.  Since that time, it has much
increased; and this has been owing to the feuing of grounds, and
the improvements which have been made along the three great


