
                         DRUMOAK.                           873

   Dalmaik is compounded of the Gaelic word Dal, a haugh or
valley, and the name of the saint, contracted  into Maik instead
of Moak, as in the former case, hence the word Dalmaik signifies
the valley of St Moloch, a name which is very descriptive of that
part of the parish where the ruins of the old church stand.  And
this derivation is supported by the circumstance, that, beside the
old church (although within the boundary of the parish of Peter-
culter), there is a holy well, which is known by the name of St
Maik's Well. *
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-This parish is situated in the counties
of Aberdeen and Kincardine ; is 6 measured miles in length, ave-
rages about 2 in breadth, and contains an area of nearly 12 square
miles.  It is bounded by Banchory-Ternan, Echt, Peterculter, and
Durris; being divided from Echt and Peterculter, on the north,
by the burns  of Gormac and Culter,-and from Durris, on the
south, by the river Dee.  Its figure is somewhat triangular, but
very irregular, on account of the manner in which it is indented or
dove-tailed into the neighbouring parishes of Peterculter on the
east, and Banchory- Ternan on the west.  No part of its surface
is much elevated, the Drum Hill (which is the highest, and stands
in the centre of the parish,) being only 500 feet above the level
of the sea.  From this elevation the ground falls on all sides, with
gentle undulations, to the different boundaries, except on the east
side, where the Ord Hill rises rather abruptly to the height of about
430 feet above the sea, and runs its ridge to the extremity of the pa-
rish in that direction.  The southern peak of the Drum Hill affords
a magnificent and extensive prospect, the eye ranging almost from
the German Ocean, on the east, along the valley watered by the
river, and bounded on the south by the chain of Grampians, till
it rests, in the far west, on the snow-clad mountains among which
the Dee has its source.
   Meteoralqgy.-Dee-side is proverbially dry and thirsty, and to
no part of that extensive district is the remark more applicable
than to this parish.  The soil in that division of it which lies along
the bank of the river is not only light, but generally rests on a bed
of gravel, through which the rain easily filters away, and, in con-

<FOOTNOTE>Camerarius in his book, De statu Hominis et SanctiS Regni Scotiae, gives the
following account of St Molochus: "25 die Junii.  Sanctus Molonachus siue Mo-
lochus Episcopus et confessor qui pro viribus in Maria Scotie prouinciƒ proximorum
saluti studuit.  de eo vide Boetium, Leslaeum, et alios.  Argadenses Scoti constan-
ter semper tenuerunt apud se Sancti Molochi reliquias esse in Lismorensi Basilies
illius nomini dicata."-P. 214.


