
                      FARR.                               75

and peat-moss. The rent paid by the sheep-farers is mode-
rate.
   Rate of Wages.-The allowance to day labourers is from Is. 6d.
to Is. 9d. per day of ten hours; to masons 15s.; to carpenters from
9s. to 12s. per week. The lotters use the Highland delving spade
in labouring their land. To this they are forced, partly by being
unable to rear horses for the plough, and partly by the very uneven
surface of their lots. The greater part of the land in their
possession is susceptible of considerable improvement by trenching,
draining, removing heaps of stones, enclosing their lots, and
turning them with the plough.
   Husbandry.-The sheep farms are in the possession of gentlemen,
who are sufficiently attentive to every kind of improvement of
which pastoral districts are susceptible,-by draining, embanking,
and burning heath. The leases of the sheep farmers are given
for nineteen years: but the lotters on the coast are tenants at will,
which is evidently a bar to the improvement of their, lots.
  Fishings.-Tbe principal fishings are those of salmon and herring.
of late years, the rivers have been fished by the heritor, and
the salmon sold at a certain rate per pound raw, to a Company who
have a curing establishment in the parish. In consequence of
this plan, the present rent of the salmon fishings of Naver, Borgie,
and Strathy cannot be ascertained. The fishings are kept up by
proper guards in close time on the rivers to prevent poaching; and
by having a sufficient supply of fishing and curing materials during
the fishing season.
    Produce.-As very little of the raw produce is brought to market
within the parish, it is not easy to state its amount. The following
account is submitted, however, giving an average of the
last three years.

<TABLE>

  Annual produce of the land occupied by the lotters, including oats, bear, and pota-
      toes, being the only crops they raise,                       L. 2000  0  0
Annual produce of sheep-farms in wool,                                3700  0  0
Annual produce of sheep-fasms in wedders aod ewes, sold to south
    country dealers,                                                  5800  0  0
                salmon-fishings,                                       800  0  0
                herring-fishing,                                      1300  0  0
                meadow-hay,                                            310  0  0
Miscellaneous, including dairy produce, black-cattle sold by the lot-
     ters, &-c. &c.                                                    420  0  0

                                        Total annual produce,     L. 14,330 0  0
The fishermen on the coast hawe from figteen to twenty boats

<FOOTNOTE>About 22,000 Cheviot sheep are annually grazed in this parish, including old and
young stock.


