
48                           ORKNEY.

in fact a succession of argillaceous, siliceous and calcareous slates or
schists of different thickness, hardness, colour, and composition;
but the most common, and that which is most esteemed for building,
is when recently quarried, of a dark blue colour, like a hard slate
clay and breaks at determinate angles, diamond-shaped, thus giv-
ing the builders easy work; and some quarries afford excellent paving
stones of four or five feet square, perfectly smooth.  By exposure,
however, they acquire a rusty reddish or yellowish colour, from the
decomposition of the iron with which most of these rocks are impreg-
nated. These strata may be found at all inclinations, from hori-
zontal to perpendicular, but in general they dip to the west, at an
angle about 20&deg;. They are generally in thin strata, and in one
place are quarried pretty extensively for roofing slate, which is not
good enough to export. In part of this quarry the slates are
beautifully marked by dendritic iron pyrites. The texture is ap-
parently homogeneous, but when exposed long to the action of the
weather the softer parts are worn away, and the harder portions
project much, thus demonstrating its compound nature. This is
particularly the case along several of the precipices that bound
the west coast, where the effect of the weather is increased by the
exposed situation, sea-spray, &c. and forms the figured stones
which have been considered so curious by many ; and indeed the
forms that they assume are sometimes exceedingly fantastic, being
in the shape of concentric circles, ovals, squares, or triangles, ac-
cording to the original mixture of the stones in the different stra-
ta, but most frequently the figures are spread irregularly on the
surface like hieroglyphics. In some places they alternate with strata
of a hard, dark limestone, which is nearly the colour of the strata be-
tween which it lies, and is burnt for lime, but not extensively, as the
distance we have to bring our coals renders it expensive. In other
places, the strata have a bituminous appearance on the surface, or
little cavities which are filled up with a soft bitumen or petroleum,
occasionally glance coal? This has excited some hope of dis-
covering coal in this county, which would be an incalculable
benefit to all the north of Scotland; but the whole county is so
intersected by the sea, and there are such plain and beautiful ex-
posures of all the strata along our shores, that it is hardly possi-

<FOOTNOTE>The resemblance of these and the Caithness slates to some of the so-called grey-
wacke slates ofthe south of England was remarked many years ago by Professor
Jameson. He was in the practicE, in his lectures, of pointing out the close resem-
blance, or idantity of these slates and red sandstones with the slates and sandstones in
the Pintland range at Edinburgh, which lie immediately below the coal formation,
and which, he held to be members of the old red sandstone,-a formation belonging
either to the undermost group of the secondary class or the uppermost of the transi-
tion class.


