
 		               GIRVAN.                      401

wheat and potatoes for upwards of twenty years. This, however,
is chiefly owing to the great quantity of sea-weed which is got in
the immediate neigbbourhood, and the manure that is supplied by
the town. With these advantages, the farmer is enabled, not only
to prepare his land in the best style for the green crop, but also
to give it a thorough top-dressing before sowing the wheat. And,
strange as it may seem to those unacquainted with this mode of
management, the wheat raised in this way is equal in all respects,
if not superior, to what can be raised with the utmost care on land
little, if any thing, inferior in quality, and with a four or six shift
rotation, where thd incalculable advantage of an abundant supply
of extra manure is wanting. Let it not be supposed, however,
that the advantage arising from sea-weed, &c. is a clear gain to
the farmer,--far from it; such extra manure can only be obtained
by a great deal of hard labour, and at a very considerable expense,
and is fully estimated by the proprietor, in the letting of the land.
In all the low, and in some portions of the high district of the
parish, the soil is particularly favourable for turnip husbandry, and
for several years past, a considerable quantity of the different kinds
of turnips have been sown with marked success; still, however,
potatoes seem to be the favourite green crop, owing chiefly to the
land being got sooner cleared after them, than after turnips, for the
sowing of the wheat.
	Irrigation is scarcely known in the parish, and furrow-draining,
now so universally approved of, is only in its infancy. This, how-
ever, is owing, not so much to any backwardness, either on the part
of the proprietors or tenants, to this expensive improvement, as to
the fact, that from the nature of its subsoil, this parish, upon the
whole, requires draining less perhaps than the same continuous
quantity of surface, in almost any district of the country. Still
it must be allowed, that considerable portions of it require draining,
particularly of the kind above-mentioned; `nd it is pleasant to re-
mark, that the system has actually commenced, and with a fair
prospect of being carried on to the necessary extent. With very
few exceptions, the leases are of nineteen years duration, nor does
a shorter period seem at all desirable for either landlord or tenant.
Within the last forty years, almost all the farm-houses in the
parish have either been rebuilt, or otherwise much improved, par-
ticularly on the properties belonging to Mr Kennedy of Dunure,
and Mr Craufurd of Ardmillan. On the farm of Girvan Mains
alone, Mr Kennedy, upwards of twenty years ago, laid out about
	AYR.                       c c


