
                         DUNBAR.                         71

of Tynninghame, the Bass, the May, and the boundless ocean.
The highest ground is Brunt-hill, which is 700 feet above the level
of the sea; near to which, on the march, is Downhill, which is 580
feet above the level of the sea, and is famous as the place where
Leslie encamped previous to the battle afterwards noticed.
   Hydrography.-The land is naturally so dry that it would be
difficult to find a spring on the surface. The water which supplies
the town is brought two miles in leaden pipes from St John's well, in
the parish of Spott,-which well is 200 feet above the sea.-The
difference between high and low water is 18 feet.-There are four
streams which wind their way from the hills, and run through the
parish into the ocean,-the Tyne, which separates Dunbar from
Tynninghame,-the Belton water, which, after running through the
old parish of Belton, joins the sea at the old port of la Belle Haven,
-Broxburn which gives its name to Broxmouth Park, and joins
the sea there,-and Dryburn water, which is the eastern boundary.
   Geology.-The rocky formations are all of the secondary class,
and upon the coast they are laid bare, as if on purpose to attract
the notice of the geologist. The strata are either horizontal or
inclined, and at particular places nearly vertical. The direction is
N. E. and S. W. and the dip is to the S. E. From the eastern
march west to the inlet of Broxburn, these rocks are grayish, and
at some places yellowish sandstone, stratified and nearly horizon-
tal, with numerous superincurnbent beds of bluish gray limestone.
One of these calcareous rocks east of Catcraig is a bed of petrifi-
ed shells; and another of them, on the west of the same place,
is petrified coral, and resembles masses of worms. There is a
boulder east of the Vault, and another on the west, both just with-
in flood mark, and not belonging to the neighbouring rocks, but
of granite formation. West of the said inlet, is a narrow bed or
dike of porphyritic basaltic greenstone. Here the grayish sand-
stone disappears, and the place is occupied by red sandstone, more
inclined, and at places nearly vertical. Next in succession is a
rock of greenstone, of red coloured trap tuff, and of red conglo-
merated sandstone. These rocks are marked with beautiful moun-
tain-green spots and they fill up the space right on to the harbour,
which is cut out of a thick bed of red-coloured trap, which Profes-
sor Jameson calls an iron shot porphyritie greenstone,-the colum-
nar structure of which is visible all around, but particularly on the
north-west side of the battery. These columns are either penta-
gons or hexagons, but not of equal sides, having one large and one
small, and the rest nearly equal. They are jointed, but not so regu-


