
                              KIRKCONNEL.                             317

	Character of the People.--The people of this parish, in general,
are sober and industrious. Their character cannot be more ac-
curately described than in the words of my late respected prede-
cessor in his Statistical Account. "They are acute, deliberate,
cool, steady, serious, and well acquainted with the principles of
Christianity." In no case have they ever, even in turbulent times,
manifested a turbulent spirit; they have always shewn a loyal dis-
position, and a readiness to submit to the laws of their country.

			   IV.-INDUSTRY.
	By a late measurement, the number of acres belonging to His
Grace the Duke of Buccleuch and Queensberry in this parish
is as under, viz.

<TABLE>
				       A.    R.   P.
		Arable,              6,091   1    10
		Low pasture,           542   0    14
		Hill pasture,       18,511   0    25
		Meadow,                104   2    19
		Under wood,            178   3    22
		In roads,               12   3    22
		Occupied by houses,     48   0    37
 				    25,489   0    39

	The property of the other heritors in this parish does not ex-
ceed 1000 acres in extent; of which, from 300 to 400 are arable.
	Husbandry.--Aregular rotation of crop is observed by the tenants,
in terms of their leases. An iron plough upon an improved plan
is generally used. For seed, the red and early Angus oat is em-
ployed; and sometimes the potato oat is sown where the soil is
considered suitable. Barley and wheat are seldom sown,on account
of the great distance from a regular market. Sowing generally
commences in the month of March, or as soon after as the weather
permits. Harvest is generally finished by the middle of Septem-
ber, and sometimes by the end of August.
	Upon each acre of green crop, the farmer generally lays down
from thirty-five to sixty bolls of lime, with a proportional quantity of
manure, such as the land requires; and frequently, before breaking
up pasture land, it is limed at the same rate; and for every Scotch
acre, eight bushels of seed oats are allowed.
	The expense of ploughing, sowing and harrowing an acre of
land, amounts to about 15s.; of weeding, reaping, carting home,
thrashing, cleaning and carrying the produce to market, L. 1, 14s. 6d.;
and for tear and wear of farming utensils for do. annually, 6s. The
average produce of an acre of land is about thirty-eight bushels.
	Cattle.--The cows which are kept for dairy purposes are all of


