
                   ALNESS.                                347

attending varies considerably at different periods of the year; in
summer, the average number is 40 ; in winter, it is upwards of 60.
The schoolmaster's salary is the minimum, but, including school-
fees, and the provision made for the session-clerkship, the yearly
income may amount to L. 50. Of the other, tbree schools alluded
to, two are endowed, one of them being supported by the Society
for Propagating Christian Knowledge, and the other by the Ge-
neral Assembly's Education Committee. In both these the num-
bers vary with the different seasons of the year. The average
number for the whole year may, however, be stated for the for-
mer at 35, in the latter, it amounts to 50.
   The fourth school is a female one; it is taught in the village,
and is pretty well attended, but has no regular endowment.
   State of the Poor.-The poor of this parish are better provided
for than those of most of the neighbouring parishes. So much is
this the case, that many instances have occurred of individuals
who are obliged to live by the charity of otbers,--coming to reside
in this parish the necessary time in order to have their names added
to the list of recipients. The number at present on  the poor's
roll is about 70. The fund for their partial support and relief
arises principally from the weekly collections, which now amount
yearly to the average sum of L. 50, and partly from the interest
of small sums of money left by various individuals, which, were
they all paid up, would amount to about L. 400.
   The circumstances of the poor have, moreover, been greatly,
ameliorated of late years, in consequence of the residence in the
parish of Major-General Munro of Teaninich. The exertions
of this gentleman in behalf of the poor and afflicted are indefati-
gable. Not confining himself to mere pecuniary contributions,the
amount of which, to men of wealth, is in general a thing of very
little consequence, he administers to their relief by daily personal
visits, by supplying them with medicines, distributing among them
meal and other provisions, and by providing them with fuel during
the rigour of the winter season. The tendency of this mode of
bestowing charity is to excite in the minds of those , benefited a
sense of gratitude, which is unquestionably conferring a greater
and more lasting benefit on the poorer classes, than the granting
of pecuniary aid, to whatever amount, on the mere principle of legal
assessment or taxation.
   Fuel.-Till of late years, peats and,wood were the articles of
fuel almost exclusively in use; but since trading by means of ves


