
304                 KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

Thursday, which is after the first Monday of November, and so
every Friday thereafter till Christmas." (Large Description of
Galloway, p.26.) It is well known that, at that date, not a house
existed in Gatehouse except an inn; and it way, thereto, not
improperly be inferred, that the privilege which the place enjoyed
of holding markets had been conferred on the town of Fleet, and
that it survived though the town ceased to exist. (Caledonia,iii.
329.) An inn it is likely, always obtained at this spot as it lay
on the great line of road between Dumfries and Portpatrick. The
first, house in the modern village of Gatehouse, in addition to the
inn,  was erected in 1760, under the auspices of the late James
Murray of Broughton; and, in order to insure the stability and
prosperity of the town, the same gentleman held out the most li-
beral encouragement for the introduction of manufactures and
other branches of industry. It was in this way that Messrs Birt-
whistle were induced to settle in the place as manufacturers.
Messrs Thomas Scott and Co. also erected two cotton mills, on
the north-east extremity of the town, which did not long exist,
and, unlike the establishment of Messrs Birtwhistle, have not been
revived. Mr Murray established a wine company, a brewery, and
a tannery, being all joint-stock concerns, of which he held a num-
ber of shares himself,* along with many gentlemen of the county,
and some from England, particularly Messrs Atkinson of Temple
Sowerby, and Messrs Freeland, merchants in Liverpool. These
companies were all placed under the management of persons from,
England; but they did not turn out lucrative speculations,--none
of the partners taking an active interest in them,--and they were
eventually dissolved.+ Hence it was that numerous families from
England were encouraged to settle in Gatehouse in connection
with these various works. A branch of the Union Bank of Pais-
ley was introduced, and for several years carried on an extensive
business,but was afterwards withdrawn. About a dozen years
ago, a branch of the Commercial Bank of Scotland was established
at, Gatehouse; and, on its discontinuance two years ago a branch
Of the Western Bank of Scotland was introduced. In 1795, Mr
Murray erected the town into a burgh of barony, to be governed
by a provost, two bailies, and four councilors, with the privilege

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Murray, however, held no shares in either of the cotton manufactories.
          The tannery was the most successful of these speculations; Mr Davitts the ori-
ginal manager, and aftrewards the sole proprietor, having realized a handsome fortune
by the business.
					3


