
                         DALKEITH.                  509

ceased through failure in 1842. The Commercial Bank esta-
blished an agency in 1810; the National Bank in 1825; the
Royal Bank in 1836; the Edinburgh and Leith Bank (now Edin-
burgh and Glasgow), and the Savings Bank in 1839. All these
still continue.
   Few towns are better supplied with bread, butcher-meat, gro-
ceries, and garden produce. We have an extensive iron foundry,
a gas work, a brewery, several couriers and tanners, builders, car-
penters, and cabinet-makers in good employment; manufacturers
of felt and beaver hats, straw-hats, and woollen stuffs: besides ex-
tensive dealers in meal, flour, and barley, tobacco, saddlery, dra-
pery, shoes, hard-ware, and earthen-ware; in short, almost every
article that the present improved condition of society requires
may be obtained here in abundance, and of the most approved de-
scription. The town is well paved and lighted, and kept exceed-
ingly clean, especially in the leading streets. The burdens are
moderate. Gas of a very pure quality is furnished at 7s. per 1000
feet;-water, which is good and generally abundant, at 10s. 6d.
per annum;-the assessment for the poor is 1s. per pound of
house-rent;-a night watch has been kept up for some time,
chiefly by voluntary subscription;-and, on the whole, it may be
safely affirmed that few towns are more cheaply governed, or hold
out greater inducements for the permanent residence of respect-
able families-if houses could be obtained.
   Dalkeith is a burgh of barony, under His Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch. In the time of Regent Morton, the barony and re-
gality of Dalkeith possessed jurisdiction over about fifteen baro-
nies, besides many other lands and possessions, in more than
twelve counties of Scotland.* Where the records of this baronial
court are now deposited, we do not know;-but they would
doubtless contain much interesting information in regard to Dal-
keith. On the abolition of heritable jurisdictions, in 1747, the
present system of administration was introduced. The power of
the baron-bailie was restricted to minor cases,-while cases of im-
portance are heard and decided by the justices of the peace and
the sheriff of the county, whose courts are held here at stated pe-
riods. A statute to be in force for twenty-one years, was passed
in 1759, and has since been repeatedly renewed, ordaining the
appointment of twelve trustees, of whom the baron-bailie is al-
ways one,-who shall have the power of supplying the town with

<FOOTNOTE>Acts of Scott. Parl. Vol. ii. anno 1567.


