
410                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

quired four times the number of hands that are needed now. As
everything on the Duke's estate is done systematically, the pro-
portion due by each farmer is paid at the rent day to the chain-
berlain, after deducting the board of the mole-catcher, and handed
over to Mr Fleming, who regularly attends. Several other pro-
prietors and tenants have agreed with Mr Fleming, at the Duke's
rates. One advantage is obvious to the most superficial observer.
Before the moles were caught, their usual run was along the back
of the drains, where the ground was driest, and often into the drains,
--the consequence of which was, that every flood sending out water
through these holes spread the mole hills over the ground beneath,
causing that rich soft grass to arise, which, in spring, might do no
injury, but was dangerous in autumn for the introduction of rot.
	In 1798, His Grace Henry of Buccleuch knowing the advan-
tages of flat flooding on meadows, and catch-work, as it is techni-
cally called, on sloping grounds in several of the counties in Eng-
land,--engaged Mr Stephens to assist any of his farmers who were
so inclined, in laying down land regularly for water meadow. A
considerable number profited by his Grace's offer; and the whole
of the meadows so operated on have been accurately reported by
Dr Singer, at the request of the Highland Society, and the re-
port published by them in the third volume of their Transactions.
There was no water meadow in this parish, except two acres of
catch-work on the glebe; which, although supplied by a mountain
rivulet of very inferior quality, were visibly enriched,--the poor
barren soil being converted into rich black mould. In general,
the objections against the system were,--the small quantity of
ground that could be spared from the sheep or the plough,--the
abundance of hay either from meadow or bog,--the poverty of
the water when compared with that which passes through the rich
manufacturing districts of England. The hay, too, was thought
good for cattle but not for horses ; and of fodder for the latter they
stood most in need.
	Till the beginning of the present century, it was the practice of
farmers, during snow storms of any great continuance, to fly with
their sheep to Annandale. To those living under different cir-
cumstances, it is scarcely possible to conceive the extent to which
this was carried. I select one instance of many from a memoran-
dum taken at the time. " On the 15th January 1802, the thaw
came which relieved so many thousands of sheep. For a great
number of years, such a general-flying for pasture had not been ex-


