
                              ECCLES.                         57

cross, there are traces of entrenchments, and some cannon balls *
have been found between it and Hume Castle, which stands two
miles north-west. The latter are, perhaps, remnants of Colonel
Fenwick's attack upon Hume Castle in 1650. +
   Eccles was anciently the seat of the Bernardine or Cistertian
nuns. At what period the first foundation of this nunnery was
laid, no account can be derived from history. According to Hove-
den and the Melrose Chronicle, it was founded a second time in
1154, or, according to Cowpar, in 1155, by Cospatrick, Earl of
March, father to Earl Waldave, and was consecrated to the Vir-
gin Mary. The abbreviation of the Scoto-Chronicon, annexed to
Fordun, says that this nunnery was established by the Countess of
March. In 1296, during the interregnum in Scotland, Ada de
Frazer, prioress of Eccles, obtained a letter of restitution, in con-
sequence of the fealty sworn to Edward I. by the Scots. In 1333,
Edward III., after taking Berwick, received the fealty of the con-
vent of Eccles, and of the other nunneries in the adjacent country.
The convent of Eccles was visited 13th November 1523 by the
Duke of Albany, when retreating from Wark Castle. He stayed
till midnight, and then marched to Lauder.
   In 1545 the abbey and town of Eccles, together with the tower
of Mersington, were destroyed by the Earl of Hertford, who, hav-
ing been entrusted with the command of the troops in the north of
England, made an inroad into Merse and Tiviotdale, and ravaged
and burned the whole country in his way, without receiving any
check from the Scots. ++
   There is in the public records, Lib. xxi. No. 537, a charter,
whereby Marieta Hamilton, prioress of Eccles, dispones to Sir
Alexander Hamilton of Innerwick, the village and lands of Eccles
in 1569, which charter was confirmed by Queen Mary at Edin-
burgh the 11th of May, the same year. The place was formed
into a temporal lordship in favour of George Hume, afterwards
Earl of Dunbar.
   The ancient nunnery, from the investigations of the Rev. Mr
Murray, (author of the former Statistical Account,) appears to have
occupied a square of six acres. The only remains of it are a wall,

<FOOTNOTE>One of these in the author's possession weighs 3 lb. 1oz. Troy, measures 8 inches
in circumference, and consists of cast iron.
     Kingsrig. Bartlehill, and Banghousewalls are places in the neighbourhood.
     Hollinshed's Scot. Chron. p. 338.-Ridpath Hord. p.554.
     Rymer, Tom. ii. p. 723.-Spottiswood's Appendix to Hope's Minor Practics.
    -Ridpath's Border Hist. p. 93, 201, 310, 518.



