
94   			      FORFARSHIRE.

soon after the Reformation. At first the parish was viewed as con-
sisting only of the burgh; but afterwards, the grounds inclosed
within the walls of the abbey garden, with the croft of Barn-green,
were also considered as belonging to it. The parish church is si-
tuated near the centre of that part of the town which is on the east
side of the Brothock. There are no means, apparently, of ascer-
taining the date of its foundation. In the year 1764, it was con-
siderably enlarged by removing the south wall eight feet back, and
by adding to the accommodation in the aisle on the north side of
the church. In each end, and in the aisle, there is a double tier
of galleries. By recent measurement, it has been found to contain
1412 sittings, allowing eighteen inches to each. Some of the seats
in the galleries are very inconvenient, being so near to the ceiling
that it is difficult for a man of ordinary size to stand in them up-
right. There are no free seats for the poor; the whole being the
property either of individuals, or of corporate bodies, who let, ge-
nerally to the highest bidder, the sittings not required for their
own immediate use. This has often proved a very serious evil,
and has been justly complained of.
	The minister of the parish has neither manse nor glebe. In
the year 1701, the arable ground and grass within the abbey gar-
den (which had been bestowed on the Bishop of Brechin during
the reign of Protestant episcopacy, and had reverted to the Crown
at the Revolution,) were granted in lease-hold to Mr Fergusson,
then minister of Aberbrothock, in aid of his stipend. But after
his death, the magistrates petitioned for a lease of the said grounds,
which was granted to them in 1737. And again, in 1753, they
applied for, and obtained a grant of them in perpetuity for pay-
ment of an annual feu-duty of L. 8 Sterling. All that was assigned
to the minister in lieu of the abbot's house and garden was the
yearly sum of L. 4, 8s. 11d. Sterling, in name of house-rent.
	The first notice of the stipend of the minister of Arbroath, of
which we are aware, is that appended to Dr M'Crie's Life of the
celebrated Andrew Melville. His brother, James Melville, appears
to have been minister of this parish,--probably its first incumbent.
In the year 1591, Thomas Ramsay, in Kirktown, bound himself
" to pay to the richt worchipfull Mr James Melvill, minister of
Aberbrothock, 4 bolls bier, wt. ane peck to the boll, and twa
bolls aitmaill wt. the cheritie, guid and sufficient stuff--the mail
to be for the sd. Mr James awin aeting, all guid and fyne as ony
gentill man sall eat in the country adjacent about him;--or fail-


