
               PARISH OF GASK.

PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH & STIRLING.

       THE REV. THOMAS YOUNG, MINISTER.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-GASK, the name nf the parish, is admitted to be a term
of doubtful origin.  Probably it is of Celtic derivation, and, ac-
cording to the speculations of those acquainted with that language,
may be regarded as compounded of two words, Ga or Gath, signi-
fying a dart, and uisge water, thus Ga-uisge becomes Gask,-the
signification being swift-running water; or it may be from Gu or
Dhu-uisge, and will signify dark-running water,-an acceptation
of the term which applies to the Earn passing along the south
side of the parish.  Others trace it to a Gaelic word signifying a
hero or great man; and others suppose it may have been applied
to point out the residence of some distinguished individual render-
ed famous in former times, when the numerous encampments in
this parish and its vicinity were inhabited.
   Situation, &c.-lt is nearly a square, each side of which is rather
more than two English miles.  A Roman causeway intersects the
parish from east to west on the highest ground.  The beautiful
bank on the south side is divided into fertile fields, where the mo-

dern system of agriculture has been, for the last twenty years,
cultivated with success, the soil being partly clayey and partly
loamy.
   The River Earn is the boundary on the south.  On the bank
extending to the north are extensive plantations, with corn-fields
and pastures; while a conrhderable part of this division of the pa-
rish is bounded by a moss, which, notwithstanding the inroads made
upon it by industrious farmers, still supplies the parishioners with
peat for fuel.  The Earn, which forms the boundary to the south,
is a considerable river, though not navigable, the windings of which
from the west to the east side of the parish are about three miles.
It produces, salmon, white and yellow trout, perch, flounders, pike,
and eel.


