
286                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Hydrography.-The Ythan is the only stream of consequence
in the parish.  It takes its rise from two springs in the upper dis-
trict of Forgue, about a mile from the boundary of Auchterless.
It flows through the vale in a north-easterly direction, and dis-
charges its waters into the German Ocean below Ellon.
   Geology.-A formation of clay-stone slate runs through the whole
of this parish, nearly from north-east to southwest, and through
the neighbouring parish of Turriff, till it reaches the sea at Mel-
rose, in Gamrie.  The rock lies too deep to be worked for slate
quarries, but it is available for this purpose in the neighbouring
parish of Culsamond.  It was formerly wnrked both in Turriff and
Inverkeithny, but is now abandoned for the superior quality of slates
in the bills of Fotidland.
   The soil is of a gravelly description, based on a clay-slate.  It
is almost uniformly dry, and varies in depth from three to twenty-
four inches, averaging about seven inches.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-Mr Duff of Hatton and Mr Leslie of Badenscoth
are the chief land-owners.
   Parochial Registers.-The registers of marriages and baptisms
commence in 1680, and have been regularly kept ever since, with
some trifling exceptions.
   Antiquities.-The most remarkable remnant of antiquity con-
nected with this parish is a camp on the farms of Buss and Logie-
Newton, commonly supposed to have been of Roman origin.  A
great part of what was formerly included within the walls is now
improved.  The south and west dikes only are entire.  Near the
remains of this camp, and upon the causeway leading westerly
through Forgue, an urn was ploughed up, containing black ashes,
and decayed animal matter.  This relic of antiquity is now in the
possession of Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, Bart.  On a farm in the
neighbourbood were found a great many heads of darts, commonly
called elf-shots, that had been used in war before the introduction
of metal in the forging of fire-arms.
   In the immediate vicinity of the church, there is a small artifi-
cial eminence, of an oval shape, surrounded by a ditch, which is
now in many places very much filled up.  It still retains the name
of the Moat-head, and was formerly the seat of tbe baronial court.
The gallow-hill, where the criminals were executed and buried, is
in its neigbourhood, and confirms the general opinion of the ori-
ginal purpose to which the moat-head was applied.


