
     Statistical Account

is of quadrangular form, and stands upon an area of 135 
feet by 105.  The open court within, is 108 feet by 65.  The

<FOOTNOTE>

sue of their research should be, as there is a high probability it would, that there
was not a sufficient fund of coal unexhausted in the island of Britain to supply the 
present demand for 200 years to come, it is probable they would think it proper 
to interfere and prevent the 100 rapid consumption of an article indispensibly ne-
cessary to the very existence, not only of the capital and other great cities, but to 
almost every species of manufacture, and to the many thousand artisicers em-
ployed in them.  Such could not even exist without a plentiful supply of coal,
in a country to destitute of wood as Great Britain is.  The superiority which
the possession of coal gives to her manufactures, on the failure of that supply, 
would be instantly transferred to those nations in Europe, possessed of a suffi-
cient quantity of wood for their consumption. 
   Is is not difficult to account how Government, and the nation it large, are
fulled into security on this point.  The proprietors of coal have an interest in a 
great and immediate consumption.  No matter from what it arises; immediate
profit is the object, whether from the home or foreign market.  The rest of 
mankind have little opportunity, and still less inclimation to investigate a sub-
ject of which the greater part have a very superficial knowledge.  It is net the 
less necessary that the alarm be given; the danger, upon candid inquiry, will not 
be found ideal.  Great dependence is sometimes placed upon the discovery of 
new seams of coal, never before know; but if it be considered, that there is 
scarcely a seam of coal of any consequence in Great Britain, which has not been 
known to exist for half a century, and that searce a new discovery of coal has 
been heard of during that period, to what is this to be imputed?  Not to the
want of trials, for of these numbers have been made without success; but as it 
is an established fact, that every seams of coal, as well as all other strata, rise and 
crop out, at or very near the surface of the ground, there is a high probabili-
ty that sew valuable seams of coal could remain so long undiscovered.  As in
every extensive field, the chance is, that some part of the crop will approach so 
near the surface, as to be laid open by rivers, canals, rivulets in little glens, and 
not seldom the rise or outburst of the coal, will be seen in the form of a black 
dust, mixed with small particles of coal, in common ditches, where nothing is 
meant but the enclosure of the ground.  Such apperances should, and, I sup-
pose, generally are examined.  By such means the greater number of coals al-
ready known, have been discovered.  And though others may exist not yet dis-
covered, there is little reason to suppose the number or extent of such undisco-
vered seams to be very considerable. 
   The extent of the coal fields in Britain is very incosiderable, when compared


