
                          KILCONQUHAR.                      333

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

Colinsburgh is a post-town, in which there is a weekly market
for grain, attended by farmers and corn-dealers in the neighbour-
hood. The corn is sold by sample, and is chiefly bought for ex-
portation to Edinburgh, Glasgow, &c. Besides the weekly mar-
kets, there are two fairs annually for cattle in Colinsburgh, on6 in
June and one in October. When the Agricultural Society meet
in March to award their premiums, there is also a public market
at which many cattle are sold.
  BanK.-The Commercial Bank of Scotland have an agency
here, which does a good deal of business. A Justice of Peace
Court is also regularly held here.
  Means of Communication.-Two stage coaches pass daily
through the parish, one from Anstruther to Edinburgh by Petty-
cur, another from Anstruther to join the Largo steamer, which
carries passengers to Edinburgh twice a4day in summer, and once
a-day in winter.
 Excellent turnpike roads run in all directions through the pa,-
rish. The great road from the east to the west of Fife along
the south coast, passes through it. Colinsburgh is a regular
stage on this road. Here there is a good inn, with post-ebaises
and horses. There is also another line of turnpike road that runs
from south to north, and which, in the northern parts of the parish,
branches off in various directions leading to St Andrews, Cupar,
Dundee, &c. Carriers from this go weekly to Edinburgh, Kir-
kaldy, St Andrews, Cupar, and all the towns on the coast.
Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which stands in the
'village of Kilconqubar, was built in 1820 and 1821. The plan
was furnished and the building erected, by Messrs bickson, ar-
chitects, Edinburgh. It is a handsome building in the Gothic style
of architecture, with a tower 80 feet in height. The church is
conveniently situated for four-fifths of-the population, but extreme-
lY inconveniently for the inhabitants of the northern part of the
parish, the extremity of which is at least seven miles distant. - The
church contains sittings for 1035; 50 sittings are allotted to the
poor.
The inconvenient situation of the church forthe inhabitants of
the northern parts of the parish has led to the erection of achapel
at Largo.ward, wbich was opened for public worship in September
1835, and which, since, that time, has been regularly supplied, by
the presbytery furnishing supply the one Sabbath, and tried miniswr4
Of the parish providing it the other. A subscription has beewmade


