
                         MID-CALDER.                         369

of his instalment to the office of Archbishop of Glasgow, the re-
venue of that high office did not exceed L.100 Sterling per an-
num. In 1605, he was advanced to the metropolitan see of St
Andrew's, and thus became primate of all Scotland. In using his
best endeavours to recover some portions of the churchs patri-
mony, he is said to have made nearly fifty journeys from Scotland
to London. With James I. he was in great favour, and he was the
person who crowned Charles L, as King of Scotland, in the abbey
church of Holywood. In 1635, he was promoted to the office of
chancellor; but, in consequence of the civil war, he was soon after
obliged to retire to England, where, after a short time of grief -and
trouble, he expired in 1639. Before he expired, he made a con-
fession of his faith of the apostle's creed; and, touching the go-
vernment of the church, he considered Episcopacy the only right
and apostolic form,-parity among ministers being a breeder of
confusion.
 He compiled an excellent history of the Church of Scotland,
in which there is much curious and interesting matter, from the
year 1203 to the termination of the reign of James VI.
 Ministers of the Parish. -Our parish records are silent as to the
person who succeeded the superintendent and his son in this cure;
but from the synod and session records it appears that Mr William
Burnet was minister here in 1691. He was succeeded by Mr
John Lookup in January 1698; who seems to have been a per-
son of very respectable talent, and of no inconsiderable literary
attainments. Mr James Watson was admitted in 1759; and Dr
Dobie, afterwards minister of Linlithgow, succeeded him in 1773
Being promoted to the cure of the parish of Linlithgow, he was
succeeded by Dr Wilson in 1792. In 1793, Dr Wilson was
translated to the parish of Falkirk. In 1795, Dr John Sommers
was admitted to the office of minister in this parish. He wrote
a few articles in the "Encyclopedia Edinensis," of which he was
the proprietor, and of the last three volumes of which he was also
the editor.
  Heritors.-Lord Torphichen is the principal heritor, and
the undoubted patron of the church and parish of Mid-Calder.
The rental of the parish, in Scots money, is as under; and those
who pay stipend to the minister are as follows;

<TABLE>

   Lord Torphichen, for barony of Calder,      L.2466   5  10 Scots.
   Lrs Hay Primrose, Linhouse, now Burnbrae,      557   2  11
   Earl of Buchan, Pumpherston,                   406  13   4
   William Bruce, Esq., Alderstone,               364   0   0

 EDINBURGH.                                     Aa



