

490                     EDINGURGHSHIRE.

laid upon a theatre in the laigh aisle of Dalkeith."* He was a
steady supporter of the Hanoverian family, and, as a reward for
his loyalty, was presented with two of the English titles, viz. Earl
of Doncaster and Baron of Tynsdale, belonging to his grand-
father, James, Duke of Monmouth, and the precedency which
they originally acquired. On the approach of the Pretender to
Edinburgh, in September 1745, he sent his tenantry to assist in
defending the city. After the battle of Prestonpans, when the
Prince had resolved to march south wards to encounter General
Wade at Newcastle, the Prince lodged two nights at the Palace
of Dalkeith. A detachment of his army had been stationed a little
towards the south-west of the town, but no tradition or memorial
of the circumstance, so far as we have learned, exists in the neigh-
bourhood.+ He died on the 22d April 1751, and was buried in the
Chapel of Eton College. His eldest son, Francis, Earl of Dalkeith,
was married to Lady Caroline Campbell, eldest daughter of
the famous John, Duke of Argyle, and had four sons++ and two
daughters. He was prematurely cut off by the small-pox in the
year 1750, in the thirieth year of his age, and was buried at
Dalkeith.
  Henry, third Duke of Buccleuch, son of Earl Francis, and grand-
son of the Duke of Argyle, was born the 13th September 1746,
and succeeded his grandfather in 1751. He was educated at Eton
College, and had the great advantage of travelling for nearly three
years under the care of the celebrated Dr Adam Smith, of whom he
speaks in terms of the greatest affection and regard.SS Shortly after
returning from his travels, his Grace married Lady Elizabeth Mon-
tagu on the 2d May 1767; and as he had not yet attained his
majority, and Act of Parliament was obtained to enable him to make
the necessary settlements on his intended wife. By her he had
three sons and three daughters. Being now settled in life, he was
soon promoted to those honorary stations to which his rank and
fortune called him; and he not only directed his attention with
enlightened zeal to the improvement of his extensive possesshons,
but, with a generous patriotism, he took a lively interest in all the

<FOOTNOTE>* Register of Burials.
+ Chambers' History of the Rebellion in 1745
++ The Hon. Campbell Scott, who accompanied this brother Duke Henry, in his
travels with Dr Adam Smith, was assassinated on the streets of Paris on the 18th
October 1786, in his nineteenth year. His remains were brought home by his bro-
ther, and deposited in the family vault at Dalkeith.
SS Dugald Stewart's Life of Dr Adam Smith.

                           4






