
     Statistical Account

kind will ever live, much less flourish in Orkney, on account
of something very unfriendly in either the soil or the climate.
The attempts, however, which have been hitherto made to
raise trees have not been very judicious.  A rich soil in a
sheltered situation has not been pitched upon for that pur-
pose; the ground has not been properly prepared; nor have
the weeds after planting been from time to time picked from
it; nor yet have the species of trees been well chosen; nor
planted in clumps thick enough to screen each other from
the influence of the climate in their infancy.  Should it af-
ter repeated judicious trials prove as certain that trees will
not grow here now, as it is that they did formerly, natural
history would be called upon to solve a curious question,
What are the causes of this so remarkable alteration?
   The black cattle, considering the extent of the parish, must be
regarded as numerous: They are upwards of 500 in number;
and the horses, young and old, amount to near 300; and the
sheep, that run almost wild upon the commonty, do not ex-
ceed 1500.  The number of acres it contains has never been
ascertained by any measurement; and therefore the propor-
tion between the waste ground, and what has been used for
raising grain, can only be known by conjecture.  It is suppo-
sed to be as six to one, or thereabouts.  Little or no grass-
seed has ever been used here, except in a very few places,
where it has thriven well, and turned out an excellent im-
provement.  A good many cabbages are now planted in the
vicinity of the town, which the inhabitants find their account
in using plentifully, though they pay, for every acre of the
land where they grow, fully 3 L. Sterling.  The rest of the
arable ground is cultivated, though in a very bungling man-
ner, for the purpose of producing oats and bear alternately.
Much of the waste land might be improved at even a small
expence, into near ten times its present value; and not only


