
     of Dry'sdale.

Walls, Kirktown-mains, Nether-place, Myrehead, and Dal-
tonhook.  There are evident remains of 8 camps or forts,
some square or Roman, others circular or British, and most-
ly built on eminences, because about 2000 years since (their
age) the sides of the eminences or hills had been covered
with growing wood, and the present flat or low lying and
holm lands in Annandale had partly been a morass, or under
water; hence we find, that the Roman roads were generally
made on rising ground, when it could be got.  The most
remarkable are two, the one British, and the other Roman,
facing each other, and separated by a narrow morals.  They
are built on two hills E. of the village Bengall, the name
alluding to the sorts on the hills, signifying the hill of the
Gauls.  Old pieces of armour and warlike weapons have
frequently been found in them, and not many years since,
the skeleton of a man was found in a cairn, on the inter-
vening morass, thought to have laid there for some ages,
and some fragments of his dress or accoutrements were car-
ried off as a curiosity, particularly his sandals, curiously
wrought and bound around the mouths with leathern
thongs, were conveyed into England for the Oxford Museum.
There is another, a Roman fort, beautifully situated upon a
large eminence, in the centre of the united and extensive
holm of Dryfe and Annan, called the Gallaberry, or the
burgh and station of the Gauls, for the term Berry is of
Saxon origin, signifying "burgh, mansion, or strength."

     3 H

<FOOTNOTE>

on the S. E. side of Dryfe, whence 400 Annandalians sprung, flew upon
the surprised enemy, after a short, but bloody struggle, put them into
confusion, and being joined by a few Scots, from Eskdale, under the Laird
of Buccleugh, completed the victory, killing upwards of 700, among
whom was the Lord Maxwell himself, and pursued the routed enemy to the
Gotterbie Ford of the Annan, where many were drowned.  A great num-
ber that escaped, were marred or hurt on the face during the fight; hence
the common saying, "A Lockerbie lick."  It is singular that so few de-
feated so many.


