
			KINNETTLES.                     225

support to those engaged in them, may be ascertained from the
following statement:--The average rate of weaving a web of osna-
burgs, 150 yards long, 8s.; of hessians, 124 yards long, 8s.; of
bleached sheetings, 110 yards lonf, 14s.; of brown sheetings, 104
yards long, 11s. Thus it appears, that, when provisions are mode-
rate in price, the manufacturer, by receiving 2s. 9 1/2d. per day for his
highest manufacture, (which he weaves in five days,) and 1s. 7d. for
the lowest, is comparatively pretty well remunerated for his labour;
and, since the males employed in the said spinning-mill receive
each on an average 2s. 3d. per day, and the females 4s. 6d. per
week, they are enabled to live in a tolerably comfortable state.
	Mill-spinning and weaving, from the long daily confinement at-
tending them, the imperfect ventilation of manufacturing houses,
and noxious flaxen dust inhaled into the lungs in respiration,--
seldom fail to produce bad effects on the constitution; disposing
those that are exposed to them to assume prematurely tbe pale
emaciated countenance, and to contract asthmatical and dropsical
diseases, which not unfrequently adhere to them through life.
Spinning-mills and manufacturing shops, in which many young of
both sexes are frequently blended together, have, at the same time,
not always the best effect on the morals of youth.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Marhet-Town.--The nearest market-town is Glammis, where
three cattle and sheep-markets are periodically held in the course
of the year. At Forfar, the county-town, distant about three milds,
seven or eight markets are periodically held during the year, for
cattle, horses, and sheep. Besides, a cattle-market, commonly called
the crafts, is held on every Wednesday from Martinmas to the mid-
dle of April; and a weekly market every Saturday for butter, cheese,
eggs, and poultry.
	Villages.--There are two villages in the parish. Douglastown,
so called from the late Mr Douglas of Brigton, was erected by that
gentleman and his partners, at a great expense, in 1792, chiefly for
the accommodation of the hands employed at the spinning-mill.
It, however, contains a vintner, a blacksmith, a shoemaker, two
tailors, a cloth and grocery merchant, various mechanics, and a
population of 162 persons.--The other village is the Kirktown,
a small but handsome village, built in 1813, and containing, in a
population of 52 persons, the parish schoolmaster, a female
teacher of sewing and fancy-work, a carpenter, a grocery merchant,
and various mechanics.


