
                         WHITTINGHAM.                         67

   Character and Habits of the People.-They are in general clean-
ly in their houses and persons, orderly and decent in their behavi-
our. Most of them attend regularly on public worship, and show
a proper respect for the solemn ordinances of religion. Them is
only one public-house, which, as it is well regulated, has no bad
effect upon the morals of the parishioners.
   During the last three years, there have been four illegitimate
births in the parish.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>
                              IV.-INDUSTRY.
Agriculture and Rural Economy.-
   Number of imperial acres cultivated or occasionally in tillage,      3958
                            never cultivated or in pasture,            16500
                            under wood,                                  215
   The greater proportion of the lands are enclosed with ditch and
hedge, and in some places with stone dikes. The soil on the south
side of Whittingham water is inferior to that on the north side.
A part of the former division is of a light and sandy soil, and some
of it poor clay; however, there are several fields even here of a rich
fertile good turnip soil. Upon the north side of the water, the
soil is of a superior quality, some of it is a deep rich loam, capable
of producing as rich crops, when the season is favourable, as any
land in the county.
   There are six large farms in the upper part of the parish among
the Lammermoor hills; part of some of them is arable, and in
favourable seasons yields tolerable crops. The sheep grazed in
this extensive district amount to about 270 scores, which, besides
other profits, yield about 800 stones of wool. There are few black
cattle fed here. The rental of these six farms is about L.900.
Two of them were let for three nineteen years leases and a life-
time.
   The modes of husbandry generally followed in the lower part
of the parish are the following: On a rich clay soil a rotation of
seven shifts, viz. fallow, wheat, grass, grassy oats, beans, wheat;
on a poor clay soil a five-shift rotation, fallow, wheat, grass, grass,
oats; on rich turnip soil seven-shift rotation, turnips, wheat, or
barley, grass, grass, oats, beans, wheat; on a poor turnip soil five-
shift rotation, turnips, barley, grass, grass, oats.
   Rent of Land.-In the lower part of the parish the Maximum
rent is L.3, 10s. and the minimum L.1, 10s. per acres, Scots
As some of the farms are now let at a grain rent, the average can-
not be exactly ascertained. The rent for the grass of an ex or


