
258                       BERWICKSHIRE.

fees for the last 3 years is L. 70 per annum; and the average of
his fees as session-clerk is L. 8.
   There is also a very respectable and flourishing institution, in
which the above-mentioned branches of education are taught by
one licentiate of the Church of Scotland, assisted by another. They
at present, with much ability and success, superintend the educa-
tion of twenty boarders, and of about thirty other pupils in the
town and neighbourhood, to whose instruction, conduct, and com-
fort, every possible attention is given. Besides these, there are
six schools for the education of boys and girls, who are well taught
in all the ordinary branches of education. Religious instruction
is communicated by reading the scriptures and catechisms. There
are two respectable schools for female education,-one of them a
boarding-school, well entitled to every degree of encouragement,
and both of them well taught in everything useful and ornamental
required in the middling ranks of life, as well as in religion and
morals. There are several sewing-schools for young females in
an inferior condition of life. All, except the parochial school, are
supported entirely by fees for instruction.
   Some Sunday schools are taught by persons of the labouring
classes under the superintendence of their ministers. It is said
that those for whose benefit they are chiefly intended, the children
of negligent parents, seldom attend, there being no compulsatory
power to enforce attendance.
   The people are generally alive to the benefits of education.
The heritors pay the school fees for those parents, the poverty of
whose circumstances has been ascertained.
   Savings Bank.-There has been a Savings Bank for Dunse and
the contiguous parishes existing for a good many years, but in a
very languishing state.
   Literature.-A subscription library was commenced in 1768.
There are also two circulating libraries, and a reading-room for
newspapers.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on
the roll is 130: they receive from 1s. to 3s. per week. The legal
assessment for the poor amounts to L. 710 yearly, and is their sole
supply, except a small sum from the collections, which are much
reduced by the heavy assessments. Collections, mortcloth, and mar-
riage-fees may amount to L. 18 or L. 19. L. 100 was bequeath-
ed to the poor by General James Dickson of the Honourable East
India Company's service, the interest of which is divided yearly


