
                            DRUMBLADE.                       313

pensed twice a-year, and all communicants who request such pri-
vilege here for the first time, however frequently they may have
communicated before in other parishes, are strictly examined anew
when they bring their testimonials, previous to their admission-
which practice has been found to be attended with most beneficial
effect.
   There is an association instituted for religious purposes-deno-
minated the Drumblade Bible and Missionary Association, the con-
tributions to which have hitherto been gradually increasing, and the
sum now raised annually is from L.24 to L.25. This sum has been
divided among the home and foreign objects now carried forward
by the Church of Scotland; the Edinburgh Bible, and the Scot-
tish Missionary, Societies.
   Library.-There is also a parish library, the contributions to
which are likewise on the increase; and, though yet of no great
extent, it is still in a promising condition.  The books appear to
be pretty extensively read, and the institution appreciated.
   There are usually three Sabbath schools in the parish,-one
taught by the parish minister, and three assistant teachers under
his superintendence, and two in other parts of the parish, taught
by respectable Dissenters.
   Education.-There may scarcely be said to be any school with-
in the parish but the parochial-one female teaches a few child-
ren sewing and knitting.  The numbers attending the parish
school vary from 46 to 72-the former being about the num-
ber in summer, the latter in winter.  The branches taught
are, reading, writing, English Grammar, arithmetic, geography,
Latin, and mathematics, including mensuration.  The school-
master's salary amounts to L.30; probable amount of school
fees, L.24, 10s.; emoluments arising from the Dick Bequest, in
common with the other parochial teachers in Aberdeen, Banff,
and Morayshires, session-clerkship, &c. May be stated at L.35.
The school fees are by no means expensive, and the advantages
of education are generally secured more or less by all classes of the
community.  There are none brought up in the parish who cannot
read, and few of the rising generation under fifteen years who
cannot both write and account.  Persons have occasionally been
met with from other parishes unable to read, and, with some ex-
ception, these have not been found in general much disposed to
undergo the labour of overcoming that deficiency.  there are
many parts of the parish inconveniently distant from the parish


