
166                          KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

tells us, that, "in several parts of the Stewartrie, they till, with
four horses, all abreast, and bound together to a small tree before,
which a boy or sometimes a woman leads, going backward. In the
meantime another stronger man both a strong, stick, about four
feet long, with an iron hook at the lowest end thereof, with which,
being put into another iron fastened to the end of the plough-
beam, and leaning upon the upper end of the stick, and guiding it
with his hands, be holds the plough-beame up or down, according
as he finds the ground deep or shallow." From this miserable and
expensive mode of tillage the usual return was four or five for
one; and the grain was of the most execrable description, as we
learn from the same source, for, be continues, "before they carry
the corne to the mill, after it is dry'd in the kiln, they lay it upon the
kiln-flour, in a circular bdd, about a foot thick; then, being bare-
foot, they go among it, rubbing it with their feet, (this they call lome-
ing of the corne,) and by this meanes the long beards, or awnds,
are separated from the corne, and the corn made, as they term it,
more snod, and easy to pass through the mill, when they are shell-
ing of the corne there." And, after all their lomeing, he adds,
"Although their measure be heaped, and the weakest and worst
of their oates, which they reserve for their horses and seed, be
winnowed and drawn out, yet three bolls of corne will not yield
much more than one boll of good and sufficient meal, straked
measure." But now the ploughman of Galloway, with his im-
proved implements, and single team of strong and handsome
horses, will stand a comparison, in point of appearance and dex-
terity, with any of his class in the country. The crops, too, are re-
markably gnod; ten for one is not looked upon as an extraordinary
return; and for every bushel of oats sent to the mill, the farmer
expects at least a stone and a half of meal. It is pleasant to add,
that their personal comfort has improved in the same ratio. No
peasant would now be proud of what satisfied the proprietor a cen-
ruty ago, when, as Mr Maxwell, in the letter already referred to,
tells us, "The tenants, in general, lived very meanly on kail,
groats, milk, graddon ground in querns, turned by the hand, and
the grain dried in a pot together with a crock ewe now and then
about Martinmas. They were clothed very plainly, and their habi-
tations were most uncomfortable. Their general war was of cloth,
made of waulked plaiding, black and white wool, mixed very coarse,
and the cloth rarely dyed. Their hose were made of white plaid-
ing cloth, sewed together, with single-soled shoes, and a black or



