
     Statistical Account

   Ecclesiastical State, and Poor.-The patron of the parish is
in the Earl of Dumfries.  The value of the living including
the glebe does not amount to L. 100.-The church was built
in 1754, and the manse about 1750.  The heritors are 6 in
number, of the whom 4 reside in the parish.
   THe poor are supported in part from the interest of the ca-
pital belonging to them, and partly from the Sundays contri-
butions, which are greatly aided by the liberality of the family
of Dumfries, who regularly attend divine service, and are yet
more liberal in their private charities to poor house-keepers.
Of these an obscure and sequestered individual could speak,
did he not know, that there are still those who "do good by
"stealth and blush to find it same."  There is also here a cha-
ritable fund established about three years ago, under the name
of the "Cumnock Social Depositary," which already amounts
to L. 170, and which promises to increase and to be of propor-
tional service to the sick labourer, manufacturer, etc. who be-
come members of it.  Institutions of this kind are gaining ground;
and if encouraged, as they ought to be by landed interest, and
carefully managed, must prove the means of lessening the
parochial poor, and preventing the introduction of a poor's rate,
of which the English so justly complain*.

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*There is no regular market; but the prices of the articles generally
slaughtered in their several season and sold here, are as stated in the tables.
It should only further be observed, that almost every kind of provisions, meal
excepted, is doubled at least in its place within 15 or 20 years past.  The
wages for servants, as will be seen from the table, have also gently men.  And
their condition is certainly preferable to that of the day-labourer, who e-
ven with his advanced wages, and with the advantage of getting coal at a mo-
derate late, (at the rate of a cart containing 900 cwt weight for 2 s 2 d) usually
bring, up his family in a very poor manner.  His earnings are more abridged.
in consequence of piece work being little known, though creepping in; which,
with increasing industry, will enable the day-labourer to afford better fare to
himself and family than they taste of.  His work in general, of consequence, seems

</UNREADABLE>


