
			      KIRKMABRECK.               341

ing. Men, women, and children employed at the mill generally
work six days a-week, and twelve or thirteen hours each day,--
certainly too long hours, especially for children, and must be inju-
rious to their health. There are two saw mills and two grain mills
in the parish.
	Navigation.--There is one smack belonging to Creetown of 47
tons burthen. There are also several vessels, from 20 to 50 tons
burthen, that frequent Palnure and Creetown ports. Besides
these there are occasionally foreign vessels with tar and timber.
We have also trading and coal vessels from Whitehaven; and from
one to eleven schooners have been regularly employed since the
opening of the quarry in carrying granite to the Liverpool docks.
Three schooners have been lost in the granite trade, and in two
of them all hands perished. The Cree is the only river navigable
in this parish, and is so as far as Carty.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--The nearest market-town is Newton-Stewart,
and is only six miles distant from Creetown.
	Villages.--On the Cree there was a considerable village in
1300, when the English army rendezvoused here. It was then
called Creth.* It was afterwards called the Ferry Town of Creel
from a common passage over the river at this place, and more
recently it obtained the present name of Creetown. It is pro-
bable that the ancient village had long disappeared before the
present one began, because it is stated+ that Creetown was be-
gun in 1783, and, in 1792, it consisted of 50 dwellings, and 50
more were laid out. There are a few old houses in Creetowns
which were built long before 1785.
	It was erected into a burgh of barony through the influence
of John M'Culloch, Esq. of Barholm, on the 13th December
1791, and registered at Edinburgh, 27th January 1792. One
bailie and four councillors are elected triennially by the resident
feuars according to the charter. About the year 1790, a small
cotton manufactory was established, with a tan-yard, and a mill
for making shot-lead. These have bedn discontinued for many
years. The old sbot-mill has been lately repaired and fitted tip
with macbinery for the purpose, it is supposed, of making potato-
starch, &c. The old cotton factory has been changed into a
carpet manufactory, which has already been noticed under its
proper head. A town hall and lock-up have lately been erected
in Creetown, which have been found most useful.

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers' Caledonia.                +Stat. Account, 255.


