                      of Edderachylis                      289

   The crops raised in this country are only oats and bear al-
ternately. The kind of oats which answers best, is found to
be a large bodied grain of a black colour, and a thick coat,
which ripens early, and meals well; and the bear is the kind
commonly used in the Highlands. Potatoes, though less than
30 years ago scarcely known here, now constitute a consider-
able part of the food of the inhabitants.
   Notwithstanding the ruggedness of the ground, and the
wild appearance of this country, scarce any place affords a more
commodious habitation to poor people, if there are any such in
it. For upon a farm of 20s. and sometimes only of 10s.
many families want none of the necessaries of life; hav-
ing bread and potatoes, fish and some flesh, wool and cloth-
ing, milk, butter, and cheese, all the fruit of their own in-
dustry, and the produce of their farms. Their fuel they have
also good, and on easy terms, every farm having plenty of
peat mosses free to all.--Travelling, it must be owned, is
difficult and disagreeable, there being no roads, but such as
the feet of men and cattle have made; yet, when one has oc-
casion to come to it, and remain there, he will fund it as con-
venient for the purposes of living as most parts of the High-
                                                        lands.

<footnote>
Therefore it is of pretty general use in the Highlands, and is of great antiqui-
ty. One man can turn over more ground with it in a day than four are able
to do with a common spade. For a single man to delve as much ground as
will require two pecks of bear feed in a day is nothing uncommon; nay,
some have sown four in a day's work. There are many instances of single
men in this parish, who with good seasons have reared as much corn as, with
the help of potatoes, has subsisted families of 6 or 7 persons plentifully, by
the Casscroim. But for this they have one advantage, denied to many o-
thers, that there is always plenty of manure; for besides what the cattle
furnish, there is almost every where the greatest profusion of sea-ware, which
makes the best manure, especially when cut early in the spring and mixed
with earth.
