
                       PERTH.                               135

vantageously taken from the police bill of the neighbouring town
of Dundee.
   Prisons.- The number of persons committed to the jail of Perth
during the year ending October 1835, from the city and county,,
was 375. Causes of committal stand thus:

<TABLE>
   Assault,     -     -     -    222     Contempt of court,         -        1
   Theft,    -      -     -      100     Issuing of baw coin,   -        -   2
   Poaching,      -      -        25     Fire raising,     -       -     -   3
   Forgery,     -     -     -      7     Trespassing,      -       -      -  2
   Murder,     -      -    -       3     Rioting,       -      -     -       2
   Rape,      -      -    -        1     Derangement,           -       -    7

   About 70 more were committed for a few days from other coun-
ties to be tried at the Circuit Court.
   The prison is reckoned to be very secure. Only two or three pri-
soners have effected an escape since its first occupation, which was
in 1819. The ground floor is not sufficiently ventilated. Three
prisoners sleep in one cell, and four in each of the rooms, but in
separate hammocks. They are allowed to associate daily in the air-
ing-ground, and in a dirty day room in complete idleness, thus neu-
tralizing all attempts at reformation. Each prisoner is allowed per
day one-half quartern loaf, and a portion of oat-meal and milk. The
superintendence is by a jailor and turnkey, who live within the pre-
cincts. There is no matron to take the superintendence of the fe-
male prisoners. A bhaplain was appointed about three years ago,
who gives instruction through the week, and preaches twice on the
Lord's day.
   The inspector of prisons in Scotland, Mr Hill, reports as follows:
" Very little good effect can be produced by imprisonment in the
Perth jail. The number of recommitt`ls is very considerable, as
may be inferred from the fact, that two of the prisoners at present
in it (both women) have been there more than twenty times be-
fore. Indeed, it is believed that no small number of the lowest
class at Perth are well content to be in the prison occasionally, as
they fare better there than at home, and are not required to do
any work. The conduct of the prisoners is generally bad, and
sometimes very turbulent. Occasionally, they enact what they
call a " Hell scene." " Having assembled in the day-room, and
provided a plentiful supply of water, they put out the candles, and
then, amidst shouts and yells, and other discordant noises, and ut-
tering revolting exclamations, they pull the fire to pieces, and fling
the live coals round in every direction; others, at the same time,
dashing water about, and in every way creating uproar and confu-
sion."  * * * * * * * * * " It is but justice to the town-coun-


