
     of Torryburn.

   Situation and Extent.-It lies on the western extremity of
the county of Fife.  Its extent is inconsiderable, being only,
from E. to W. about 2 miles, the same in breadth on the
east quarter, and nearly the same on the west, if the lands,
which are in the parish only quoad sacra, are included.  From
N. W. to S. E. it will measure between 4 and 5 miles.

   Soil and Cultivation.-The soil, throughout the parish, is
naturally good, and in general well cultivated, particularly the
lands of Torry, all of which are inclosed, and in the highest
state of improvement.  These lands, when laid down in grass,
make excellent pasturage.  The succession of crops on the
Torry estate, (most of which is at present in the hands of the
proprietor), is in general as follows:-turnips, barley, red
clover, wheat, beans, oats.  The ground is well dunged for
the turnips, and well limed for the wheat.  This method of
cropping, has been found to succeed very well.  The lands, in
general, let from 20 s. to 40 s. per acre.-The time of sowing
pease, beans, and oats, is from the middle of March till the
middle of April.  Barley is commonly sown in the month of

     VOL. VIII.   3 L

<FOOTNOTE>

of the original proprietor.  Thus, Moorside, situated on the side of a moor; Grey
Crags, situated near a stone quarry; Milltown Row, a row of houses situated
near where a mill once stood; Knowbead; situated on the top of a rising
ground; Annsfield, the field of Ann.  The Gaelic names, Torry, (above mention-
ed); Inzievar, a place seen from a distance; Drumfin, or rather fian, the ridge of
Fingal, and probably Crombie and Pitsoulie.-There were two persons belonging to
this place, who accompanied Lord Anson in his voyage round the world, in the
years 1741-2-3, and who came to England with him in the year 1744.  The
proportion of prize-money, which, in the course of this expedition, sell to the
share of one of there men, was pretty considerable.  Upon his return home, he
purchased a small piece of ground, and built a house upon it, which he called
Tinian, after the beautiful and fertile island of that name in the Pacific Ocean,
and to which the crew of the Centurion, the Commodore's ship, and the only
remaining one of the squadron, owed their preservation.


