
			KNOCKANDO.                                 69

tuim are three large stones, supposed to have formed part of the
ruins of a Druid's temple. A human skeleton was dug up some
years ago near the Mains of Kirdals, and reinterred in the same
spot.
  Occurrences of Note.-The chief occurrences of note are those
connected with the great flood of 1829, previously referred to,
and which event is now interwoven with the history of Morayland.
It may here be mentioned, that a very singular place was formed
at that memorable period by the burn of Aldarder, where there
formerly was a waterfall 80 feet in height. At that time the burn
changed its course, dashing with tremendous force over the top of
a small hill, which it speedily undermined, and a chasm is now left
of considerable extent. No measurement has been taken, but the
ravine may probably vary from 200 to 300 ells in breadth, the
banks on each side being from 60 to 100 feet in height. The
waterfall was destroyed, and is now reduced to 6 or 8 feet, in the
form of an inclined plane.
  Land-owners.-There are three heritors, viz. James William
Grant, Esq. of Wester Elchies; George M'Pherson Grant, Esq.
of Ballindalloch and Invereshie; and the Right Honourable the
Earl of Seafield. Mr Grant of Wester Elchies, the chief heritor,
holds a civil appointment in Bengal; his family are resident in the
parish, at the house of Wester Elchies. The Earl of Seafield
possesses the lands of Easter Elchies. Mr Grant of Ballindalloch
possesses Kirdals; and Mr Grant of Wester Elchies, Knockando,
Ballintomb, and Wester Elchies. All the heritors have likewise
property in other parishes.
  Eminent Persons.-Lord Elchies, a distinguished Scottish judge,
was born, and occasionally resided in the house of Easter Elchies.
The Messrs Grant of Manchester who by their own industry have
established one of the most extensive mercantile establishments in
the west of England, are natives of this parish., The late Sir
William Grant, Master of the Rolls, was nearly related to the Elchies
family.
  Several young men have gone from this parish to the East and
West Indies, and having realized property, have returned to their
native land, and it is to he hoped will not again forsake their na-
tive hills. Others have settled in various places and prospered in
the world.
  Modern  Buildings, - The mansion-house of  Wester Elchies,
which is situated on an elevated position commanding an extensive


