
                           INCH.                             85

in agricultural pursuits. To him the parish was indebted for the
introduction of some improvements in husbandry. He was fond
of draining bogs and lochs. Several of his works in this way are
still to be seen.
   General Sir Alexander J. Wallace, a distinguished military
officer, resides in the parish. He has seen much service in In-
dia, Egypt, the Peninsula, &c. He obtained the commenda-
tion of his Sovereign for his gallant conduct in the actions of
Busaco, Fuentes d'Onor, and Salamanca. Having executed a
gallant charge with his regiment, the 88th, or Connaught Rangers,
in the Battle of Busaco, Lord Wellington, who had been a near
spectator, bestowed the warmest encomiums. Riding up, he
took Lieut.-Col. Wallace by the hand, and said, "Wallace, I
never saw a more gallant charge than that just now made by your
regiment." When any difficult or dangerous service was to be
executed, the post of honour was frequently assigned to Lieut.-
Col. Wallace and the brave 88th.
    Sir John Ross, the intrepid Arctic Navigator, is a native of the
parish. He is the youngest son of the Rev. Andrew Ross, former-
ly minister of Inch. He was born at Soulseat 24th June 1777.
He has a residence in the parish, North-West Castle. General
Andrew Ross is another distinguished member of the same family.
His promising career was closed by an early death.
   Land-owners.--The land-owners of the parish are, the Earl of
Stair; General Sir Alexander J. Wallace, Bart. of Lochryan;
Colonel Vans Agnew of Sheuchan; Patrick Maitland, Esq.; Sir
James Dalrymple Hay, Bart.; Colonel Blair; W. Craig, Esq.; Sir
Adolphus Dalrymple, at present M. P. for Brighton. The only
resident proprietor is General Sir Alexander J. Wallace.
    Antiquities.--At Glenterra, in this parish, at a little distance
from the road leading to New Luce, there are four large unpolish-
ed stones placed erect, and forming a circle. At the distance of
some yards from the cirlce stands a single stone. They are cal-
led by the country people "the Standing Stones of Glenterra."
This may be a small specimen of the Druidical Temple.
   What are called "the Stepping-Stones of Glenterra" are not
a little curious. About three feet deep, in a peat moss, there is
a regular file of stepping-stones, extending about a quarter of
a mile. These must have been placed to form a passage through
a swamp previous to the growth of the peat moss.
   Stone axes have been foud in the parish. These were proba-


