
                  FALA AND SOUTRA.                         537

when Mary of Gueldres founded the Trinity College and Hos-
pital in Edinburgh, she bestowed upon it the endowments of Sou-
tra Hospital, and converted its dependent church into a vicarage.
Indeed, the whole establishment, which she founded "by aposto-
lical authority for the praise and honour of the Holy Trinity, and
the ever-blessed and glorious Virgin of St Ninian the Confessor,
and of all the saints and elect of God," was little else than a
transference of the Trinity Hospital and Church from Soutra, Hill
to Edinburgh.  The Town-Council of Edinburgh, getting pos-
session in 1560-1 of Trinity Church and its pertinents, became
in consequence proprietors of the ecclesiastical appurtenances of
Soutra, and the patrons of its church.  The first occasion of their
exercising the right of presentation was on 29th August 1616,
when, just as the Presbytery of Dalkeith were proceeding to in-
duct a minister chosen by the parishioners, Mr John Logan ap-
peared in their assembly bearing, a presentation from the provost
and magistrates of Edinburgh.  The Presbytery demurred, on the
ground that, according to use and wont, they were proceeding,
with consent of parishioners, to fill up the vacancy.  At a subse-
quent meeting, a letter from the Bishop of Edinburgh was laid on
the table, in which the Town-Council's claim to the'patronage
was asserted, on the ground that they paid the stipend of the mi-
nister.  Upon this the Presbytery referred the matter to the, Sy-
nod, and it was, in consequence of the decision of this superior
court, that Mr John Logan was indicted into the church of
Soutra.
  The patronage of Fala belonged, previously to the Reformation,
to the lairds of Edmestown of that ilk.  The history of this
church is involved in obscurity until the year 1618, when, on
the 20th of February, it was united to Soutra by the admis-
sion of the same Mr John Logan as minister of both parishes.
From this time the patronage has been exercised alteruately by
the Town-Council of Edinburgh and the proprietors of Fala.
This property descended at length to Thomas Hamilton of Pres--
ton, and his daughter Elizabeth brought the estate of Fala, with
the vice-patronage, to her husband, Sir John Dalrymple of Cous-
land.
  By the seizure of its charity revenues, the ruin of its hospital,
and the reduction and afterwards the abandonment of its church,
the village of Soutra was stripped of its,importance, and  brought
to desolation.  The seat of conviviality and busy, though doubtful



