
                          DUNIPACE.                            379

ed, and the markets are reasonable as to price, and very abundant-
ly supplied. The people are on the whole intelligent. They have
one bad habit, a propensity to drinking, and, like its sister fire, a
good servant but a bad master; --many a clever fellow faIlls a vic-
tim to whisky.

                 PARISH OF DUNIPACE.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Topography.-The parish of Dunipace is bounded on the west
and north by the parish of St Ninians; on the east, by the parish
of Larbert; and on the south, by the parishes of Falkirk and
Denny, the far-famed river Carron separating it from the latter
for nearly five miles. Its form approaches to that of a triangle, and
it contains about 4600 Scots acres; valued rent in the cess-books,
L.3138, IIs. 8d.; real rental, including lands, mills, quarries, and
annual produce of woods, upwards of L.6000 Sterling. The teinds
are all valued, some at a more early, and some at a more recent
date. They amount to L.483, 9s. 3 1/4d.
   Name.-This parish takes its name from two beautiful earthen
mounts called "the Hills of Dunipace," situated in a small but
beautiful plain, traversed by the river Carron. They are about
sixty feet in height, and both together cover about two Scots acres.
Buchanan says their name is derived from Dun or Dunum, the Cel-
tic word, signifying a hill or tower on a hill, and the Latin word pax,
peace. Other etymologists, say with much more probability, that
the name is derived from two Celtic words, Duin-na-Bais, or Duna
bas, (pronounced pas,) hills or tumuli of death. In writs issued by
Edward I. of England, at Dunipace, 14th October 1301, it is written
Donypas. Buchanan, and most historians after him, say that these
hills are artificial. He adds, that they were raised to commemorate a
peace concluded between Donald I. and the Roman Emperor Se-
verus, in the early part of the third century. These opinions appear
to be wholly untenable. Any lengthened discussion.on this subject
being inconsistent with this work, we merely mention, that, in the
immediate neighbourhood, there are several similar though less re-
markable earthen mounts. About two miles to the westward of
these hills, there was a very beautiful one about forty feet in height.
and covering nearly tb ree roods of ground, said also to be artificial.
This hill was mutilated, from time -to time, for the purpose  of

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr Robert Watson, Parochial Schoolmaster of Dunipace.


