
568			GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

and the wet sheep walks are mostly drained. Lochar Moss con-
tinues an unsightly was of a vast extent of worthless flow between
the towns of Dumfries and Annan, partly owing to the obstacle
of entails; for a plan of draining it and rendering parts of it navi-
gable for boats was given in by Smeaton in 1754, to Charles
Duke of Queensberry, and his estimate at that time was not quite
L. 3000, being only about 4s. per acre; this plan and estimate of
a most important improvement having with difficulty been found,
was therefore printed, in order to its preservation, in the Ap-
pendix of the Agricultural Survey. Dumfries-shire is a salu-
brious county in general, the Lochar Moss being the only thing
of importance that is considered as hurtful, by its dense exhalations;
but it is believed that peat moss does not cause marsh fever--a
complaint very little heard of in this county.
   3. The mountainous parts are of the transition formation, and
secondary strata reach upward from the Solway to the bases of the
mountains. Coal is worked at Canonbie on the south-east, and at
Sanquhar on the north-west of the county; in other parts, the
trials not having been carried down so far as to give ground for
success. Lead is worked at Wanlockhead on the north, and lime
in various parts of the county. Several quarries of red, and one
of gray, sandstone are regularly worked. Slate exists in several
places, but not of hard and good quality. There is neither granite
nor gneiss in Dumfries-shire, but plenty of trap and whinstone for
building,--the greywacke of the hills to the north of Moffat being
rich in quartz, and, consequently hard, beautiful, and durable. There
is clay rich in alum and iron in some places, and in others marl
of the stone or clay or the shell variety. Copper has been search-
ed for without success. The direction and dip of the lower strata
vary considerably; and in some of them, thin veins of gypsum, in
others of calcareous spar, have been observed, specks of which also
appear, though rarely, in some stones quarried out of the sides and
bottoms of rivulets for building. It is well known, that the neigh-
bouring county on the west, called the stewartry of Kirkcudbright,
is of primary formation, containing abundance of granite or gneiss,
and the fields are less clear and plain, being often pierced at small
distances by rocky eminences, between which, however, the soil,
if well cultivated, is fertile and productive.
   4. In comparing Dumfries-shire with the adjoining counties,
the Stewartry appears of less extent, containing only 882 square
miles, and about half the population of this county, and even La-
				   4


