
              COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.               311

ed at one time at Old Cambus, but it is now reduced to a few
houses.
   The parish contains no post-office; but by means of a runner
who goes to Dunbar every morning, and returns in the evening,
more than the usual advantages of a post-office are enjoyed. The
parish has the peculiar advantage of being intersected by public
roads, which afford convenient and easy communication to all quar-
ters. The great eastern road from Edinburgh to London by Ber-
wick passes through the centre of the parish, in a direction from
N. W. to S. E.; its length from Dunglass Bridge to the other ex-
tremity of the parish being about five miles. A considerable part
of it is entirely new within the last twenty-four years. Before that
date the road was nearer the coast, passing along an old and very
inconvenient bridge at one place, and along the Pease Bridge at
another, which last was built in 1785-1786, in order to avoid the
very dangerous pass which travellers, before that time, were ob-
liged to cross near the sea. Part of this oldest road still remains
rising through a height of upwards of 150 feet at a declivity of
1 foot in 5. Many old people in the parish still remember the mail
travelling by this road. At that time it was carried on horseback,
the post-office being at Old Cambus. When this old road was
changed, the line by the Pease Bridge, &c. was considered, as well
it might, a very great improvement. This, however, has also been
abandoned. The last made line leaves the old road at Cockburns-
path Tower, about half a mile westward from the Pease Bridge,
passing in a south-east direction into the valley of the Eye by Ren-
ton, &c. This new line of road has been of great advantage to
the parish, and though generally excellent, is still susceptible of
great improvement. The numerous deep ravines which intersect
the parish, give occasion to several striking and picturesque bridge
scenes. Of these bridges there are four particularly deserving of
notice, two across Dunglass Dean, one very ancient and pictu-
resque,the other more modern and exceedingly beautiful, both
in itself and in its accompaniments of rocks, woods, and waters. It
consists of one spacious arch, about ninety feet above the bed of
the little stream, the view from the top of the bridge being seldom
equaIled in beauty. About two miles eastward, at the old castle
of Cockburnspath, the road is carried along another bridge, which,
though not equal to the former in architectural beauity, is never-
theless, from its height and the wild beauty of the glen which it
crosses, a very picturesque and pleasing object.
   Pease Bridge.-But the chief of picturesque and striking


