
			    DINGWALL.                               211

   familiarized to it, but call the place Innerfeoran (Inverpeffery,)
   marking its situation with regard to the small stream which gives
   its name to the well-known valley of Strathpeffer.
      Extent, boundaries.--The parish occupies an extent of 10 2/3 square
   miles. It forms nearly an oblong; its northern extremity resting on
   the base of Ben Wyvis, whence, stretching in a direction almost South,
   it descends the fertile slope which forms the northern boundary of
   Strathpeffer, and crossing that valley where it opens into a rich
   flat, which extends along the shore to the end of the frith,--on
   which the town is built, and through which the stream called the
   Peffery winds its way to the sea, it cuts off a portion of the abrupt
   rising ground which separates Strathpeffer on the south from the
   valley of the Conan, and reaches that river at its junction with the
   frith. It is bounded on the north by Ben Wyvis; on the east
   by the parish of Kiltearn; on the west and south-west by that of Fod-
   derty; and on the south and south-east, by the sea, which, however,
   at ebb-tide recedes about three miles, leaving exposed a flat slimy
   strand, which detracts considerably from the interest with which
   the surrounding scenery is generally regarded.
      Topographical appearances.-- The general aspect of the parish is
   exceedingly beautiful. The chaaracter of the surface,--diversified by
   hill and valley; the appearance of high culture which it presents; the
   abundance and luxuriance of the wood with which it is everywhere
   clothed; and the frith, which at flood-tide appears a beautiful sheet
   of water completely enclosed by land, stretching eastward for about
   fourteen miles; together with the rugged outline of the mountains in
   the back-ground--combine in producing an effect which excites the
   admiration of strangers. The road from Inverness enters the pa-
   rish at the cast end of the village of Maryburgh,--about a mile
   and three-fourths from the town. From this it passes eastward
   along the southern slope of the ridge, which runs between the town
   and the Conan. This ridge is crerted by plantations of fir, its
   acclivity being lined out into fields intersected by hedge-rows with
   trees. On approaching- the town it terminates abruptly, forming
   a steep bank called the green hill, which is covered by a planta-
   tion of hard wood. Along the base of this, the road runs, and
   enters the town flanked by a row of fine old trees. With the ex-
   ception of its situation, which is beautiful, and its rows of tall pop-
   lar trees, which give it rather an uncommon air, the town itself
   presents little of interest. It consists of a main street, about half
   a mile long, running nearly from east to west. From this a num-


