
     Of Kirkmichael.

   Superstitions, Ghosts, Fairies, Genii, etc.-In a statistical
account, even the weaknesses of the human mind may afford
some little entertainment.  That fear and ignorance incident
to a rude state, have always been productive of opinions,
rites, and observances which enlightened reason disclaims. 
But among the vulgar, who have not an opportunity of culti-
vating this faculty, old prejudices endeared to them by the
creed of their ancestors, will long continue to maintain their
influence.  It may therefore be easily imagined, that this
country has its due proportion of that superstition which ge-
nerally prevails over the Highlands.  Unable to account for
the cause, they consider the effects of times and seasons, as
certain and infallible.  The moon in her increase, full growth,
and in her wane, are with them the emblems of a rising,
flourishing, and declining fortune.  At the last period of her
revolution, they carefully avoid to engage in any business of
importance; but the first and the middle they seize with a-
vidity, presaging the most auspicious issue to their undertak-
ings.  Poor Martinus Scribleurs never more anxiously watch-
ed the blowing of the west wind to secure an heir to his ge-
nius, than the love-sick swain and his nymph for the coming
of the new moon to be noosed together in matrimony.  Should
the planet happen to be at the height of her splendour when
the ceremony is performed, their future life will be a scene
of festivity, and all its paths strewed over with rose-buds of
delight.  But when her tapering horns are turned towards
the N., passion becomes frost-bound, and seldom thaws till
the genial season again approaches.  From the moon, they

     VOL.  XII. 3 M

<FOOTNOTE>

must escape their researches, and be lost to the language; for this reason it
would be necessary that every corner of the Highlands should be ransacked, and
the words peculiar to each, collected and explained.  It may further be observed,
that the Celtic philologist should be well skilled in the Latin and Greek lan-
guages, and perhaps in those of France and Italy.


