
164                               AYRSHIRE.

town, mostly employed for the building of houses. There are also
other two of white freestone, near Deacon hill, about three miles to
the north-west, the stones of which are much esteemed for their
fine grain and colour, and, on account of their durability, are in re-
quest for pavement, tombstones, &c.
	Limestone, ironstone, and also coal abound, but, owing to the
thinness of the strata, the raising of them has now been aban-
doned.
	Produce.*--The following statement contains the average gross
amount of raw produce raised in the parish, as nearly as could be
ascertained:

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds, either cultivated for food of man or the
         domestic animals,                                         L.6865 10 0
Of potatoes, turnips, cabbages, carrot and other plants cultivated in
    the fields for food,                                             2172  5 4
Of hay, whether meadow or cultivated,                                1953  0 0
Of land in pasture, rated at L. 3 per cow, or full-grown ox grazed
         for the, season,                                            3600  0 0
Of gardens and orchards,                                              250  0 0
Of the annual thinning and periodical felling of woods, plantations,
         and copse,                                                   500  0 0
Of quarries and metals,                                               300  0 0
Of miscellaneous produce not enumerated under any of the foregoing
         heads,                                                       150  0 0
                                                                    -----------
                    Total yearly value of raw produce raised,   L. 15,790 15 4
	Manufactures.--Under this head may be mentioned, the woollen
manufactory at the village of Haugh, which employs upwards of
thirty persons, who work eleven hours a-day, and are engaged five
days and a-half per week. They are chiefly employed in spinning
yarn for the carpet manufactory at Kilmarnock. Their wages de-
pend upon the expertness of the workmen, as they are paid by the
piece.
	In the town of Mauchline there is a very extensive manufactory
of wooden snuff-boxes. In this work about sixty persons are em-
ployed, who work ten hours a-day, and six days per week. The
workmen are remunerated according to their knowledge of the art
of box-making or painting. The stranger will be well rewarded
by paying a visit to this work, as he will have an opportunity of
seeing many elegant specimens of the art.
	The works are so conducted as to be injurious neither to the
health nor the morals of the individuals engaged in them.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The town of Mauchline is situated on the south side of Mauch-

<FOOTNOTE>The above statement is exclusive of the produce of the d`iry, which, valued at
L. 7 for each cow, but from which the expense of grazing must be deducted, will
amounts to L. 3656, and the sale of young cattle, which may amount to L. 800.


