
     Statistical Account

existed but in the defects of the register, no obvious cause*
can be assigned.  It is certain, however, both from the pre-
ceding calculations and from actual survey, that, for the last
thirty or forty years, the population has been gradually and
rapidly increasing.  The return stated by Dr Webster, whose
report was drawn up in the year 1755+ is 839; and if this
account be not inaccurate, which, however, the preceding
statement affords some ground to suspect, the population of
the parish must, since that period, have nearly doubled.  On
a survey in the year 1791, the number of inhabitants-stood
as follows:

<TABLE>

Males,                                    781
Females,                                  826
Total number of inhabitants,             1607
Return to Dr Webster in the year 1755,    839
Increase in 36 years,                     775

</TABLE>

   According to their respective ages they may be arranged
in the following order:

<FOOTNOTE>

*It has been suggested to the writer of this report, that this
decrease of population may have been owing, in part, to the fa-
mine which prevailed so generally throughout Scotland towards
the close of the last century.  It is indeed very certain that the
effects of that famine were felt with great severity in this coun-
try.  The district of Carrick is said to have been deserted by
many of its inhabitants; and it is well known, that several
farms remained unoccupied for many years subsequent to that
event.
+Dr Webster's report was drawn up in the year 1755; but
from his own account (See Introd quoted in Pref. Vol II.
Stat.  Account of Scotland,) it appears probable that the ma-
terials for that report had been collected at least ten years be-
fore.  If that was the case, the returns made to him must have
given the population of Scotland as it stood about the year
1745.  This hypothesis, if admitted, will nearly reconcile Dr
Webster's return from Dailly with the preceding calculation
from the number of births.


