
     Statistical Account

miles long, and 2 1/2 broad.  The appearance of the country
is various; it is partly flat, partly hilly, rocky and moun-
tainous.  The soil is fertile, the general character of it is,
with some exceptions, a black loam, rather light, and on a
gravelly bottom.  The air is dry and healthy, consequently
we are not afflicted with any peculiar disease.  Fevers
sometimes make their appearance, particularly in the spring
and autumn; but upon inquiry, we seldom fail of discover-
ing the cause in the inattention and foolhardiness of the
patient.  Epidemical fevers rarely visit us.  Fevers, it is
believed, are not so fatal with us as formerly; this is attri-
buted to the cool regimen and antiseptics, which are the
general practice.  The small-pox which, before the intro-
duction of inoculation, proved so sad a bar to the increase
of the people, will soon in this parish, it is hoped, be no
bar at all.  The success which attends it has done away
almost every prejudice in its disfavour.  A square wright,

<FOOTNOTE>

ditions of old bards.  By these traditions they were informed, that Nysus,
an Irish hero, had settled a colony of his countrymen in Strath-harick.
The aera of this event is passed over in silence.  Vestiges, however, of
his castle and tortress are still to be seen, on the summit of Dun Dear-
dill, a rock of high elevation, at a short distance from the lake.  The
rock had its name from Domadilla, the Lady of Nysus  This hero built
a barge, and was the first who sailed the lake Hence Lochness.  We
relish not the derivation from Nysus, and will hazard a conjecture of
our own.  The two rivers which have their course through the country
of Strath harick, and discharge themselves in Lochness, are Carrigac and
Fecaloin.  These rivers are remarkable for high cataracts, particularly
Fechloin.  In this river and near the mouth of it is the Fall of Foytes,
a tremendous cataract.  This cataract attracts the notice of all travellers,
and when a flood is in the river, strikes the beholder with astonishment.
Ess, in the Gaelic language signifies a "waterfall or cataract."  The
lake which is supplied with the water of this fall, might not unaptly be
called Lochness, that is the lake of the cataract.  The names of places,
lakes and rivers, are not unfrequently taken from the most important and
striking objects in their vicinity; here the object is awfully striking,
and the relation closer than that which is formed merely by vicinity.


