
22			AYRSHIRE.

the desiderata that might easily be supplied. The prison, like
the old tolbooth of Edinburgh, interlines and almost blocks up
one of the principal streets. Security is the only consideration,
which seems to have gained the attention of those who planned
this public nuisance, which is not so much the terror of evil doers,
as the horror of those who do well." Now we have only to con-
trast with this short but very graphic description, the condition
in which the town now appears to strangers, in order to be impress-
ed with the great improvement that has since been effected. The
nuisance complained of--the old gaol--has been entirely removed;
by which means, a fine spacious street has been laid open from Wel-
lington Square to the new bridge, improving progressively, by new
edifices on both sides, of which the new spire with the spacious
and elegant buildings attached to it, and the Ayrshire Bank, may
be mentioned as specimens. The principal streets are well light-
ed with gas, causewayed, and kept tolerably clean, and side pave-
ments are generally formed from one end of the town to the other.
The square already named on the west end, whether we consider
the neatness of the houses, or the fineness of the situation, with
its beautiful sea view, can hardly be surpassed in any other pro-
vincial town in Scotland.
	County Buildings.--These are situated on the north-west side
of this square, and were erected nearly twenty years ago, from a
design by Mr Wallace, architect. They are formed after the
model of an ancient temple dedicated to Isis at Rome, and cost
the county an expense of upwards of L. 30,000, which was raised
by an assessment under the authority of an Act of Parliament.
The look of the structure, in front, is rather heavy from its mas-
siveness, and not very imposing. It is certainly not nearly so orna-
mental to the town, as a building costing so large a sum might have
been made to appear. It occupies a very advantageous situation.
There are only two stories, with an entrance in front, ornament-
ed with large circular columns, formed out of immense blocks
of stone brought from Arran, having capitals, architrave and en-
tublature corresponding--covering a spacious portico, with a broad
flight of steps leading to it from the area in front. From this, there
is an entrance into a very handsome lobby, lighted from the top
by a magnificent dome, rising to a considerable height above the
whole building, and forming the most ornamental part of its ex-
terior. The interior workmanship also, from the bottom to the
of the dome, is rich in architectural decorations to a very


