
658				PERTHSHIRE.

1.Geo. IV. chap. 74, there were but two licensed distilleries in
this parish.  From that period to the passing of the Act 4. Gee.
IV. chap. 4. illicit distillation was carried on to a great extent.
The lowering of the duty on spirits, together with several other
salutary regulations embodied in the last act, encouraged a few
of the more enterprising farmers to enter into partnership and erect
one or two legal distilleries on a small scale.  A few others follow-
ed their example, and in this way legal distilleries gained a foo-
ing in the district.  Illicit distillation began immediately to disap-
pear, and it is believed there is now nothing of the kind carried on
within the bounds of the parish.
     There are seven distilleries in that part or the Pitlocbry * excise
districtsituate in this parish working with little intermission through-
out the year.  There ate two stills in each, for converting worts
and wash into spirits, which are fit for immediate consumption,
without any further rectification.  The contents of the stills vary
from 130 to 460 gallons each, with other utensils of proportional
magnitude.  Till very recently, the variots operations of pump-
ing, removing worts, spirits, &e.  from one vessel to another
performed by manual labour, and the malt mills were propelled
by horses; but now these operations are generally performed by
machinery propelled by water,-a power for which the natural
delelivities of this bnuntry are peculiarly adapted.
     The whole of the spirits are extracted from malted barley, and are
much esteemed for their strength and flavour.  They are dispos-
ed of in Dundee, Perth, and Edinburgh. The greater part, how-
ever, is sent to Dundee; some of them are exported to England-
arrangements having been made recently by one of the distilleries                                                         stilleries
for supplying regularly some of the london dealers.
     The quanty of spirits manufactured yearly may average 90,000
gallons.  To produce this quantiy requires about 9000 boll of
barley.  This parish yields about 2900 bolls. Deducting 3 bolls
for the consumption of each family, there remain for the purposes                                                                             e
of distillation about 1700, so that there is imported from the
neighbouring parishes and from the low country about 6300 bolls
of barley.  The quantity of malt manufactured yearly in the pa-
rish is about 24,000 bushel.  A considerable portion, therefore,
of the 6000 bolls of barley imported in brough into the parish in
the state of malt.  Calculating the spirits distilled at 7s. 6d. per
imperioal gallon, the whole whisky annually exported will amount to

<FOOTNOTE>Pitlochry is the seat of the perlodical exercise collections for thd district.


