
			APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.        173

ern boundary of the parish. These rivers, though insignificant
in themselves, are important as land-marks or marches; and their
banks being in many instances preciptious, and clotched partly with
natural brushwood, and partly with planted timber, from the only
localties where many of the native wild plants of the country are
to be found. The two ridges present nearly the same geological
formation. The old red sandstone appears on the borders of the
western ridge, in the bed of the Annan, from Jardine-Hall down
to the Milnhouse Bridge, a distance of 1 1/4 mile; below this, the
river flows only through holm land. Between the two placds
above-mentioned, the banks rise often to the hehght of 20 or 30
feet, and are composed of gravel and broken red sandstone, in
which are imbedded blocks of the latter of considerable size, and
easily split into thin section or flags. Many of these banks are
planted with larch, spruce, Scots fir, silver fir, oak, ash, elm,
plane and beech. Of the firs, the first three, after growing thriv-
ingly for twelve or fourteen years, make little more progress, and
in fact soon begin to decay; particularly the larch, which, though
only from twenty to twenty-five years old, is almost dead, the wood
having become of a cork-like consistences. The contact of the
roots with the sandstone gravel appears to produce this effect in `
shorter or longer period, according to its depth from the surface.
The silver fir, oak, plane and beech, of the same age, thrive vi-
gorously, the ash and elm, not so luxuriantly, unless their roots
have reached the alluvial deposit. The alder may be considered
almost a natural tree along these banks.
	The banks above described extend to a greater or lesser distance
from the river, according to circumstances; but the ground between
them is always alluvial, interspersed with strata of river gravel,
plainly indicating the various course of the stream at former pe-
riods. At the upper part of the parish these alluvial tracts are
of considerable extent: and below the Milnhouse bridge, they form
an extdnsive flat of rich soil, lying between the juction of the An-
nan and Dryfe. They are partly cropped, and in pasture
and meadow.
	From the banks of the Annan, and the boundaries of the alluvial
lands, the country north-eastward rise with gentle undulations, un-
til it reaches the highest part of the great western ridge. A con-
siderable part of the land on this declivity is sharp and good; in
many places, however, changing into a wet and tilly substratum,
and on the higher portions of the ridge inclinning to a black moory


