
254                         ARGYLESHIRE.

there are two schools taught on the teacher's own adventure;
one in Lismore and one in Appin, but these are not of a perma-
nent character, as the teachers are employed from time to time by
the parents.  The branches of education usually taught in all
these school, are Gaelic and English reading, writing, arithmetic,
and book-keeping, also English Grammar and Latin, and oc-
casionally the elementary parts of mathematics.
   Schoolmaster's Salaries.-Principal school of Lismore, stent,
L.17; Queen Anne's mortification, L. 10 ; probable amount of
school fees, L. 10:-Second school of Lismore, stent, L.19; pro-
bable amount of school fees, L. 12:-First school of Appin, stent,
L. 20; ;Queen Anne's mortification, L.10; probable amount of
school fees, L. 10:-School of Glencoe, stent, L. 18; probable
amount of school fees, L.8.-School of Duror, stent, L.8; pro-
bable amount of school fees, L.6 :-School of Glencreran, stent,
L.6; probable amount of school fees, L.5.  The expense of edu-
cation per puarter, ranges from 1s. to 2s. 6d. for common branches
of instruction.  For book-keeping, and mathematics, 3s., and La-
tin 5s. a quarter.  The people are better educated now, than they
were forty years ago.  There are few, if any, in the parish be-
tween six and fifteen years who were not at school; indeed, there
are few under forty who cannot read and write, but there may be
200 above that age who have got no education whatever.
   Poor.-The number of persons on the permanent roll is 78;
and although there is but little money to be divided among them
yearly, yet they are upon the whole pretty well supported.  The
people are very attentive to their wants, and give them both food
and raiment where most wanted : a duty which is indispensable, as
the pittance which they receive in money, being not more than
about 10s. 6d. for each person yearly, would go but a short way to
maintain them.  This sum arises from collections at the church
doors; from donations, given by some of the heritors at the time
of dividing the poor's money; from benefactions of a few benevo-
lent people deceased, and from mortcloth dues, and other dues
levied in the parish.  The late Mr Stewart of Fasnacloich has
mortified L. 100 for behoof of the poor of Appin, the interest to
to divided among them yearly, and this is done by the present
Fasnacloich, who is the donors grandson.  The late Dr Stewart
of Kil, in Appin, who died about fifteen years ago, bequeathed
L.100 Sterling to the poor of the parish, with instructions that,
at all events, the interest, and if need be, part of the capital should

