
232                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

at the western extremity of the parish. The church was built in
1805. It is a plain,  unpretending structure, but neat and com-
modious. Its situation is considered peculiarly romantic and
beautiful; and that of the old church (now an interesting ruin)
still more so. It is in thorough repair; but formerly was cold in
winter,-a defect which has lately been remedied by the erection
of a stove for heated air. It is seated for 644 people, but can
accommodate a much larger number. There are no free sittings
except those set apart for the poor in No. 16. Neither are there
any sittings let. The manse was built about 1803. It was a
small, and by no means a comfortable house, with offices in a very
miserable condition, when the present incumbent-came into pos-
session of the living in 1832. At that time it received a consi-
derable addition ; and new offices were built at the joint expense
of the heritors and the present incumbent. The grebe, indepen-
dent of garden, consists of about six acres of excellent land, which
was let by the present incumbent at L.4 per acre. The stipend
consists of 17 chalders, half in meal and half in barley, payable
according to the fiars of the three different counties in which the
parish is situated. Converted into money, the stipend of late
years has never exceeded L.230, except the two last years, when,
owing to the high prices, it considerably exceeded that sum.
There is no place of worship, besides the parish church, connected
with the Established Church in the parish.  The only Dissenting
chapel is at Blair Logie, and belongs to the Relief body. The
minister, I understand, is paid by the seat rents, and by the col-
lection at the church doors.
   From the lists lately completed for the General Assembly's
Church Extension Committee, it appears that there are 244 fa-
milies in the habit of regularly attending the Established Church,
comprehending 1086 individuals of all ages, and 163 families who
attend the Relief place of worship at Blair Logie, and the differ-
ent Dissenting meeting-houses in the neigbbouring towns, com-
prehending 706 individuals. The average number of communi-
cants at each administration of the Sacrament of the Lord's Sup-
per in the parish church is about 340.*/f
    Education.--There are four schools in the parish, viz. the pa-
rochial school, and three others which are supported by the school
fees.  The school at Menstrie is also partly maintained by an an-
nual allowance from Lord Abercromby.  The usual branches of

<FOOTNOTE>Considering the great distance of the most populous villages from the church,
the attendance at divine service is remarkably good.


