
			  BLAIRGOWRIE.                         919

breed of cows, the quality of the stock is now equal to that of the
best agricultural districts of the country. A large quantity of cattle
are annually fed and sold for the Glasgow and Falkirk markets.
   With regard to the system of cropping, it is the opinion of those
most intimately and practically acquainted with the subject, that
it would be a decided improvement to introduce, for good soils, in
place of the present system, which is one of fives, a rotation of
sevens, in the following order: viz. 1st, oats; 2d, potatoes with
dung; 3d, wheat, barley, or oats; 4th, turnips with bone-dust, a
proportion of which to be eaten off the ground with sheep; 5th,
barley with grass-seeds; 6th and 7th, two years grass, one of which
at least to be pastured.
   Very considerable improvements have of late years been made
in draining and inclosing, and the face of the country now presents,
in this respect, a very remarkable contrast to its appearance at the
period of the publication of the last Statistical Account.
   The general duration of leases is nineteen years, although se-
veral are only fifteen; and the stipulations are in general favour-
able to the tenant.
   Quarries and Mines.--The only kinds of stone found in exten-
sive beds in this parish, and which are at all adapted for building,
are the coarse red sandstone or conglomerate already mentioned,
and a species of whinstone of a very dark colour, a stratum of
which, as mentioned under a previous head, stretches in horizon-
tal layers along the ridge of Knock-ma-har. This latter has been
used only to a very limited extent in building, owing to its sombre
and gloomy colour, and its almost impracticable hardness. Of
the former there is a large quarry within half a mile of the town,
which was worked for a great number of years, and out of which the
greater part of the stones used in and around the town were taken.
Some years ago, however, the proprietor of the neighbouring villa
of Altamont, which is situated in the close vicinity of the quarry,
having experienced great annoyance from the process of blasting
the rock so close to his house, took a lease of it from the trustees
of the proprietor, and shut it up; so that it has not been worked
for several years. A quarry of the same material has been open-
ed about half a mile to the south-west of the old one, and is
now in full operation. Thd stone, as already mentioned, is of
very coarse quality, and not easily dressed, but durable. An-
other quarry of red sandstone, of finer quality but softer texture,
was opened some years ago and worked for some time on the


