
10                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.
ductive than it is now, when the succulent plants are more exten-
sively cultivated, and pasturage more frequently introduced; for
besides its renovating influence on the productiveness of the earth,
the farmer is thus enabled to carry on the operations of his farm
at less expense, while it is believed an equal, if not a greater quan-
tity of corn is produced than when nearly the whole farm is kept
in tillage.  New manures have also been recently introduced, as
rape and bone dust, to render the soil more prolific. The former
has been successfully applied to clay soils, and the latter to those
of a light description.
   The implements of husbandry have likewise been progressively
improved, and a greater variety introduced into farm management.
   Tenantry.-Though the tenantry are remarkable for their
intelligence and cultivation-their superior domestic accommo-
dation-and style of living, it may safely be affirmed that in no
profession has so little profit of late years been realized from an
equal outlay of capital, as in that of the agriculturist, chiefly ow-
ing to the high rent of land. Though no expensive course of edu-
cation be required in order to attain sufficient skill to conduct the
diversified operations of the farm, yet the capital necessary to an
advantageous outset has doubled if not tripled within the last forty
years.  And then the prices of corn during the late continental
war, having risen to an exorbitant height, farmers felt encouraged
to offer a higher rent than the decreased price of corn produce
has since enabled them to pay, without trenching on their capital.
Several landed proprietors, however, convinced of the necessity of
a reduction, have made considerable abatements of rent, and others
have consented to an interchange of the terms and conditions of
the lease; substituting a corn rent, regulated by the medium fiars
of the county, instead of the stipulated sum of money formerly paid.
   Farm-Servants.-The parish of Haddington being agricultural,
farm-servants constitute a considerable proportion of the popula-
tion.  Being commonly paid in farm produce, and allowed to keep a
cow, they are generally considered to be in a more comfortable and
thriving condition than any other description of labourers or even
than common tradesmen whose wages are paid in money.  Farm-
servants are mostly married men, and their wages are paid in kind,
viz. 9 quarters of oats,-2 2/8 quarters of barley, and 1 quarter of
pease or beans; a cow kept for them during the year; 750 yards
of good well-manured land to crop with potatoes, and one pound
or guinea in lieu of about 540 yards of ground which was former-


