
                             CAMPSIE.                           249

to be its utmost extent. Of this the hills or fells on the northern
side of the strath occupy about 6000; about 400 are under plan-
tation and natural wood ; about 50 in small lakes and ponds. The
extent farmed as arable land may be about 6000 Scotch acres.
The valued rental, by the county cess-books, amounts to L.6437,
whereof the estates of Woodhead, Antermony, Kincaid, and others
belonging to J. L. K. Lennox, Esq, comprise L.2780; Glorat,
Sir S. Stirling, Bart., L. 868; Bancleroche, J. M'Farlan, Esq.
L.536; Craigbarnet, A. G. Stirling, Esq, 420; part of the es-
tate of Bencloich, formerly belonging to Sir. A. Edmondston,
now to Charles Mackintosh, Esq, L.333; remainder thereof, now
belonging to William Macfarlane, Esq., L.300; Auchinreoch,
formerly belonging to Mr Buchanan of Carbeth, now to Miss
M'Innes. L.402; Hayston, and part of Carleston, Thomas Reid,
Esq. L.281. The remainder of the valuation attaches to various
small properties, the highest of which is rated at L.80. The real
rental of the parish is not precisely ascertained. In a state
made up by a committee of the inhabitants, in 1828, with the view
of adjusting an equitable contribution for the poor, the amount is
about L.15,000, of which fully more than half is charged to the
principal heritor. All the heritors reside in the parish, excepting
Sir S. Stirling, Mr Macfarlane of Bencloich, Miss M'Innes, and
the holders of one or two very small possessions. The proprietors of
Woodhead, Glorat, and Craigbarnet estates are owners of landed
property likewise in other parishes. Mr Macintosh occupies An-
termony mansion-house, of which he has a lease from Mr Lennox,
and to which he has made large additions.
   Soil.-In few parishes or districts of equal extent is the soil
found so various in quality and character. A track along the Kel-
vin, which, until about the beginning of the last century, had been
a morass, is now rich haugh land under regular cultivation, and it
would be still more valuable were it not liable to be overflowed,
notwithstanding its embankments, in times of very high floods.
Small patches of it here and there are deep moss, but arable.
From this low level the land rises in gentle hillocks, and at the
bases of most of these are beds of gravel and sand, sometimes of
great thickness. A considerable extent of light gravelly loam is
found in the south-east quarter of the parish, and smaller tracks
in the centre of the valley towards the west end and elsewhere.
Mr Lapslie supposed the gravelly soil to have been "brough down
from the hills in floods;" but a theory involving more important



