
     Statistical Account

years by Dr Leckie, a gentleman of intelligence and observa-
tion in this parish, but he found "only a series of capricious
"changes, incapable of being classed or connected, so as to
"form any useful rule, or any observations on the weather
"or seasons that can be depended upon in this country."
The climate though wet, does not appear to be unhealthy,
which may be attributed perhaps to the frequency of high
winds, which prevent the vapours from becoming stagnant.
The number of aged persons at present in the parish appears
from the preceding tables; within the few last years, two
persons have died near the age of 100.-A pleasant and un-
common spectacle of health and industry is seen in this village;
an old man, his son, and grandson, all smiths, of one name,
dwelling in the house in which they were born, and continu-
ing to follow their occupation in the same shop from day to
day.  The inhabitants of this part of county are not subject
to any disease that can be considered as peculiar to the climate.
The ague is said in former times to have prevailed in the
carse.  It is now extremely rare, at least in the parish of
Kippen.  Epidemical diseases are not frequent.  In the spring
months of years 1785 and 1787, a pleuretic fever prevailed,
which carried off a number of people.  The year 1788 was
fatal to some old people and children.  Of the uncommon
mortality in these years, the openness of the preceding win-
ters cannot properly be assigned as the cause; for they were
not more open, perhaps less so, than several succeeding sea-
sons which were acccompanied with no such consequences.
The small-pox and measles are sometimes fatal to children.
Inoculation is rather gaining ground, though slowly.  It is sur-
prising that any prejudice should remain against a practice,
which experience hath proved to be so salatary.  Dr Leckie,
(whose practice both in this country and the West Indies, has
been very extensive,) declares, "that only two of all those

     2


