                            ANNAN.                          525

a summer cloud, overcame him." He now sleeps with his fathers :
and sure we are there must be few, who will, hesitate to say,--peace
to the manes of Edward Irving.
	Lond-owners.--The principal land-owners in the parish are, Mr
Irving of Newbie; Mrs Dirom of Mount-Annan; Mr Irving of
Bonshaw; Mr Carruthers of Warmanbie; the Earkof Mansfield;
the Marquis of Queensberry; and General Sharpe of Hoddam. Mr
Irving of Newbie possesses the largest rental, which is upwards of
L. 2000 per annum. The other are ranged as above, according
to the valued rent of their respective properties in the parish. The
number of small proprietors is very considerable.
	Parochial Registers.--The register of baptisms commenbed in
1730, that of marriages in 1764, neither of which were regularly
kept till about thirty years ago. So imperfectly, indeed, had the
register of marriages been kept for upwards of thirty years after its
commencement, that the kirk-session, in 1797, found it necessary to
resolve and enact, that in time coming it should be duty kept.
An obituary has been punctually kept, for upwards of thirty years,
by the parish sexton.
	Antiquities.--On an angled elevation on the east bank of the river,
and west side of the town, was situated Annan Castle, the ruins of
which, with the exception of a small part of the wall built into the
town-house,finally disappeared nearly forty years ago. Astone taken
from the ruins, and built into the wall of a small vintage-house in a
garden in the town, bears this inscription, "Robert De Brus Counte
De Carrick et Seniour De Val De Annand, 1300." Separated from
the ancient site of the castle, now forming the old churchyard, by
a sort of ravine, there is an artificial mound of considerable extent,
designated the moat, supposed, like other places of the same.
name, to have been raised by the Saxons as a spot on which
to assemble for the administration of justice. About half a-mile
farther up the river, and on-the same side, is an elevated bank,
on which criminals or captives were executed, called Galabank
or Gallow-bank, an evident contraction for Gallows-bank.  A
deep fosse or ditch, part of which remained open not many years
ago, and which can still be easily traced, extended from this spot
to Annan moss, skirting the town on the side nearest to the Eng-
lish border. It was undoubtedly cast by the inhabitants of the
town, for a means of defence. About two miles from Annan, and
a few hundred yards to the north of the Carlisle road, there stood,
not many years ago, a rude sort of monument, erected in memory


