
                410                         ABOYLESHIRE.

                Esq. of Kilberry; John Campbell, Esq. of Stonefield; and Miss
                Macdonald, Lorgie.
                  Parochial Register&-Parocbial registers do not seem to have
                been kept.till the year 1780.
                  Antiquities.-There are tumuli on the property of John Camp.
                bell, Esq. of Drimnarnucklach, in one of which some pieces of a
                rudely adorned, helmit were found, in a tolerable state of preser.
                vation, three years ago.    The forts of Dunskeig, mentioned by
                my predecessor, and belonging to a chain of forts built at certain
                distances from each other along the coast of Kintyre, appear to
                have been erected at a very early period in the history of this
                kingdom.  The castle of Tarbert, though very ancient, is not
                nearly so much so its is the line of forts already mentioned.  Dan.
                skeig is admirably adapted by nature for being a place of defellee.
                The view it commands is varied and extensive.  It rises almost
                perpendicularly from the level of the sea to the height of 400 feet.
                The remains of the vitrified fort are not very entire, but suffi-
                ciently marked to prove that its magnitude was considerable.
                                       III.-POPULATION.
                  The population has not increased since 1821, owing in a great
                measure to the extent to which emigration to America has been
                carried on within these few years past.  Ofthe whole population of
                the united parish, about 1200 reside in villages, and the remainder
                in the country.  Four or five families of independent fortune re-
                side in the parish; and the number of landed proprietors whose
                properties yield tpwards of L.50 per annum, is nine.
                 Language, 4-c-The Gaelic is the vernacular language of the
                parishioners; but the English is displacing it, and the sooner it
                overtnasters it the better. -
                 The peasantry endeavour to better their condition by having
                recourse to smuggling.  It is impossible to calculate the amount
                of evil that this unholy and unpatriotic traffic is the cause of.
                                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
                  Agriculture.-There are a few very well cultivated farms in this
                parish.  Potatoes form the principal article of farm produce; and,
                in the ease of a purely arable'possession, if the holder does not PaY
                ofie-half'of his rent by the sale of this root, his lease cannot be
                regarded as a very advantageous one.  A large quantity of POta-
                toes is exported annually for the English and Irish markets.
                'Kintyre is not distinguished for the excellence of its breed of
                black-cattle.


