
                         ST NINIANS.                         319

admonition and censure, that they sought to repress these evils.
In 1665, we find the following entry, " because this kirk is trou-
bled with sturdy beggars every Sabbath, appoint James Wilson,
constable, to wait at the style next Sabbath to put them away, and,
if refracterie, to put them in the stocks or steeple." Delinquents
in general were subjected to fines ; and, to keep good order
at marriages, it was enacted, that, should any thing of a contrary
nature take place, the money previously lodged with the session-
clerk should immediately be forfeited to the poor. At times they
threaten to give them over'to the civil magistrate, but not unfre-
quently they appear to have set them in the " jugs," or banished
them the parish by their own authority.
  If the session were zealous in repressing evil, they were at the
same time active in promoting good. Much wisdom and tender-
ness was displayed in reconciling families and neighbours. The
elders were exhorted to see that worship was maintained in every
family; and great attention was paid to those who sought for bap-
tism for their children, or for admission to the Lord's table. The
education of the young was an object of peculiar care, and they
seem to have exercised an unlimited authority, both over the teacher
and his scholars. They appoint the parochial schoolmaster and allot
him his salary,--they instruct him what he is to teach, and fix his
hours of teaching,--when dissatisfied, call him before them, ad-
monish, reprove, or dismiss him at their pleasure. They enact
that no private teacher shall open a school without their permis-
sion; and that none shall be opened within two miles of the pa-
rochial school.
   The topics enumerated, together with the management of the
poor, in a populous and extensive parish, might be supposed to
afford sufficient employment to any kirk-session. But, in addition
to all these, the kirk-session of St Ninians took the chief manage-
ment of the fabric of the church and the arrangement of its seats.
They build an aisle from their own funds, which is kept entirely
under their own control, and part of their fines are laid out in re-
pairing the church-yard dikes. Heritors make application to
them for seats, which they erect, exchange, or alter very much at
their pleasure. By their order, sums of money were collected for
propagating the Gospel; for building, churches particularly in
Ireland; for people who had lost their property, or who were to
undergo dangerous operations; and, once for a man who had been
taken captive by the Turks. Nay, once and again, we find them


