
792                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

with the state of the church and country, are incidentally noticed.
Amongst others, the following may be noticed : A letter appears
on the record, from the above-mentioned Dr Gilbert Ramsay, to
the kirk-session, intimating his intention to found and endow an
hospital for the support of a certain number of aged persons, and
requesting the session to state to him the probable expense.  The
session, however, from motives of delicacy, declined to do so, and
this first intention appears afterwards to have been abandoned
for the endowment of a school.  About the same time, an entry
is made in the register, of a collection made for the barbour of
Eyemouth, and again, a second collection for the same purpose.
Nor does a spirit of enlarged charity and sympathy, for suffering
brethren, seem then to have been wanting in the Church of Scot-
land, for another entry appears of a collection made for the poor
Christians prisoners at Algiers.  Not the least singular of the
practices of these past days of our fathers, is the strictness of
church discipline then prevailing, and the zeal which they mani-
fested for the keeping of the Sabbath day, as evinced by the fol-
lowing entry in the register :  "Said day *    *    * was dilated
to the session for boiling beesbykes on the Sabbath day."
   Antiquities.-There are no antiquities in the parish of much
celebrity. In the district called the Forest, stands part of an old
castellated ruin, on which, however, no date can be seen.  It ap-
pears to have been built at a period when there were no settled
inhabitants in that glen.  Tradition says it was erected by a Bi-
shop Gordon of Aberdeen, for a hunting seat.  Another and more
imperfect ruin stands near Easter Clune, beside which had also
existed formerly an Episcopal place of worship, and a small bury-
ing-ground.  No tradition connected with this ruin exists in the
neighbourbood.  In the charters  of Finzean, it is denominated the
fortalice of Easter Clune.  In all probability, it was merely the re-
sidence of one of the many landholders who formerly held the
property of the parish, and which the lawless state of society then
prevailing required to be capable of maintaining a short defence
against the sudden assaults of enemies.   A few years ago, four
silver coins were dug out of a grave in the churchyard. They
are much worn, but had originally been nearly the size of modern
half crowns.  They bear the inscription of " Robertus Scotorum
Rex" on one side, and on the other, " Villa Edinburgh," 1 Villa
Pertb."
   Building.-The chief in the parish are the mansion-


