
     of Stronsay and Eday.

above the surface, reached to the bottom of the grave.  Many
human bones of an ordinary size were found, and, moreover,
fragments of a human skull, and of a lower jaw bone, with
the case of teeth, which were perfectly found, and fragments
of thigh bones; these were all of an enormous size, and af-
forded a convincing proof that the body burried there had
required a grave of the dimensions above specified.  There
is an old chapel in ruins on the island of Eday, and one in
each of the pasture isles, called Linga, Meikle, and Auskerry;
in this last, there are also ruins of what seems 19 have been
a small house, which retains the appellation of the monker
house, or monk's house; such recluses might no doubt have
lived in this isle, as there is plenty of fresh water in it; the
distance, however, at which it lies from the island of Stron-
say, is no less than three miles.  Thus we find there have
been of old five parish kirks, and at least nine chapels in this
district*.

     3 H 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the foundation of the Cathedral kirk of Orkney, confirmed by Cardi-
nal Beaton, on the application of Lord Robert Steuart, (who was a natural uncle
of Mary Queen of Scots and) Bishop of Orkney, it is recited, that before
that period, "only six canons, and as many chaplains, were erected m the said
"Cathedral kirk of St. Magnus in Orkney, which are stated to be too few
"to bear the labours anti incumbent burdens in singing praises in the hours
"of the nights and days in the said kirk, and for divine service, as becomes
"such a kirk."  Accordingly, a provostry, a arch deaconry, chantory,
chancellory, sub-deanry and sub chantory; likewise seven other canons and
and prebendars, thirteen chaplains, named vicars of the quire, and six boys,
who might be respectively admit in sciences, and otherwise qualified.  These
were of new erected, constituted, and founded.  The deed proceeds in these
terms: "By the tenor of thir presents, judges, statutes, and ordains, that
"which we judge belongs to every one: The first, the provost, Mr Mal-
"colm Halero, batchelor in holy letters, the prebendary of holy Trinity, and
"vicarage of Ronald Shay, with holding up the kirk of Burwick.  2d, To


