
     Statistical Account

jack-daws are very numerous.  Of the last there are two
kinds; one with a dark blue head, all the rest black; another
with red feet, having the body and head black.

   Waters.-Though there are neither lakes nor rivers in
Gigha, it abounds with excellent water, every farm having
one or more spring wells in it.  On the west side of the island,
two good mills are supplied, all winter and spring, with
water collected into a pond from spring wells; but in
summer, the pond is made dry for the purport of cutting
peats.-There is a tradition that the country was once nearly
depopulated by a plague, all the people dying except those of
one farm, called Ardacha', or High Field, where there is a
flaring of water, to the virtue of which was attributed their
safety.  The water of this well is frill reckoned very salu-
brious, though it has nothing peculiar in taste or colour*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It would be unpardonable on this subject not to mention the Well of Tar-
bat, called Tobar-rath Bhuathaig, i, e. the lucky well of Beathag; a well famous
for having the command of the wind.  It is situated at the foot of a hill front-
ing the N. E. near an isthmus called Tarbat.  Six feet above where the water
gushes out, there is a heap of stones, which forms a cover to the sacred sount.
When a person wished for a fair wind, either to leave the island, or to bring
home his absent friends, this part was opened with great solemnity, the stones
carefully removed, and the well cleaned with a wooden dish or clam shell.  This
being done, the water was several times thrown in the direction (or art), from
which the,wished for wind was to blow, and this action accompanied with a cer-
tain form of words, which the person repeated every time he threw the water.
When the ceremeny was over, the well was again carefully shut up to prevent
fatal consequences; it being firmly believed, that, were the place left open, it
would occassion a storm, which would overwhelm the whole island.  This cere-
mony of cleaning the well, as it is called, is now seldom or never performed;
though frill there arc two old women, of the names Galbreath and Graham,
who are laid to have the secret, but who have cause to lament the infedelity of the
age, as they derive little emolument from their profession.


