
     of Dudingston.

per acre, built upon this property, in 1767, a handsome dwel-
ling house; and having discovered a rich and deep bed of clay
under the sand, he began soon after that period, the manu-
facturing of bricks; which by the number of hands employed,
and houses required for their accommodation, gave rise to the
above mentioned rapid increase of his village.  The same clay
has been found equally well adapted for the fabrication of tile,
brown pottery, and white stone wares, all of which are carry-
ing on with hopes of encreasing success.  The last of these,
the white stone-ware manufactury, having been suspended a
while, has very lately been resumed by Messrs.  Cockson and
Jardine of Edinburgh, upon the Staffordshire model, and
upon an enlarged and liberal plan.  As the work however is
only in its infancy as yet, it would be premature to enter into
particulars; but from the advantages of its situation, the vi-
cinity of the metropolis, and the skill and spirit of the under-
takers, a prosperous issue may naturally be expected to the at-
tempt.  Upon the south-east borders of the parish at Magda-
lene bridge, an attempt was made some years ago, to intro-
duce the manufactory of Scots superfine broad cloths, which
after having been attended with considerable success for a
time, was at last suffered to drop into decay.  In the works
erected to prosecute this design, a manufactory of hats is at
present carried on.  Salt has been long prepared upon the
sea coast, in the parish.  Maitland pans derive their name
from, and were probably erected by some of the Lauderdale
family, at one time proprietors of the land around.  Magda-
lene pans, and Magdalene bridge, are supposed to have been
named from a neighbouring chapel dedicated to St Magdalene,
situated in the parish of Inveresk.  The prosperity and pro-
duce of the salt-works, is in a considerable degree, regulated
by the state of the coal, of which the following article treats.
A few years ago the number of salters with the officers em-


