
                            KELSO.                         323

have had their properties transmitted to them for a lengthened
period, in lineal descent, from father to son; and the pages of the
parish register, as well as the humble monuments of the church-
yard, bear witness to an equal fluctuation in the case of the middle
and working classes.  It is now as true of the borderers, at least
of those of lower Teviotdale, as of the inhabitants of places less
fitted to foster local attachment, that there is scarcely one man in
fifty who, if he survives the age of manhood, is buried with his
fathers.
  Town Population.--The proportion of the town to the land-
ward population is as six to one.
  Marriages.--From the growing neglect of registration, the yearly
average of births cannot be given.  No record of deaths is kept.
The average number of marriages for the last seven years is 34.
  Nobility, &c.--There is one nobleman resident for part of the
year, the Duke of Roxburghe.  The number of families of inde-
pendent fortune may be stated at 19; the number of proprietors
of land of the annual value of L. 50 and upwards is 17.
  Parliamentary Voters.--The number of persons on the roll as
qualified voters for a Member of Parliament, is 269.
  Language.--One peculiarity of the pronunciation of this district
has been already noted,--the tendency to give to the dental sound
of ch the sound of sh; as sheap for cheap.  A second, is the
habit of sounding the vowel a in a mode precisely the reverse of
the English usage: Thus wâter (broad a) is uniformly pronounced
wáter (long slender a) and vice versa.  The mode of enunciating
the pronoun of the first person is also peculiar.  It is sounded as if
it were written aw: a native Kelsonian does not says,; I saw it,"
but "Aw saw it."  In truth, in all that respects language, the
natives of this district may be said to be Scotorum Scotissimi.
Though at the distance of only five miles from England, they speak
the Scottish tongue in the most Doric of its forms; nor does there
appear any prospect of a speedy improvement in this particular.
It would indeed seem, that, in proportion as the two countries
approach. their respective confines, the Scotch and Anglican
tongues, instbad of gradually losing each its distinctive character
so as, at the point of junction, to interblend and coalesce in a
common dialect, assume each its harshest and most intractable
form as if for the purpose of keeping their respective marches
clear and distinct.  At least the fact is unquestionable that, all
along the south side of the east marches, we have the Northum-


