
192                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

Applegarth forms a portion, and many of its premiums have been
gained by tenants in the parish.

                               V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Markets and Means of Communication.--There is no market-
town or other town in the parish; but the towns of Lockerbie and
Lochmaben are in the immediate neighbourhood. The great
road from Glasgow to London by Carlisle runs through the parish
to the extent of five miles; and  on this road the Glasgow and
London mail-coach travels daily. An additional light-mail has
been recently established, drawn by two horses, and travelling at the
rate of eleven miles per hour. There is also almost every year an
opposition coach on the same line of road. Two bridges cross the
Annan; one on the Glasgow line, at the 63d mile-stone from
that city and 31st from Carlisle, built in 1818; the other on the
road leading from Dumfries, across Annandale into Eskdale, re-
built in 1827, both in excellent condition. There are also two
good stone bridges, and a wooden one for foot passengers, over the
Dryfe, in the Sibbaldbie part of the parish.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated at the lower ex-
tremity of the parish, almost within a stone's cast of Lochmaben
parish on the west, and of Dryfesdale on the south;--of course
very inconveniently for the greater part of the population; many
of the people having to travel four, five, and some even six miles,
to attend the public duties of the Sabbath. The church was
built in 1760; the seating was renewed in 1808, and a private gal-
lery built, by Sir Alexander Jardine. The walls were stoothead, or
done vith lath and plaster, in 1822; and it is now in a very to-
lerable state of repair, and can accommodate 380 sitters. There
are no free sittings. The manse was built in 1805. The glebe
consists of six and a-half acres of good land, and would let for a
guinea and a-half per Scots acre. The stipend consists of seventeen
chalders of victual, half in meal and half in barley, payable accord-
ing to the fiars of the county. Converted into money, the stipend,
at an average of the last seven years, is L. 280 per annum. There
is no place of public worship besides the parish church. There
are 129 families, comprehending 892 individuals of all ages, be-
loning to the Established church; and 23 families, comprehend-
ing 107 individuals, belonging to the Secession. The average
number of communicants is above 200.
	Collections have been made for the Highland Schools and India


