
                                   ELIE.                    279

case which lives in tradition having occurred upwards of twenty
years ago; and even yet, by digging, water is found everywhere
near the surface.
  Boundaries.--The parish is bounded by Newburn and Kilcon-
quhar, on the west; by Kilconquhar on the north; by St Monance
on the east; and by the sea on the south. In length it extends
about two miles, and the breadth is nearly one. It is, however,
much intersected by the neighbouring parish-two farms at the
distance of two miles, and one at that of three, being cut off from
the principal divisions by portions of Kilconquhar. The cause of
this seems to have been, that the whole of Elie originally belonged
to Kilconquhar, and that, when the disjunction took place about
the year 1639, Sir William Scott of Ardross had the whole of his
own lands, without regard to their local situation, erected into the
new parish. In this way, the farm of Burntsheils, at the distance
of eight or nine miles, was originally intended to form part of it.
But the absurdity of such a proposal probably caused it to be relin-
quished: for the lands in question have always continued attach-
ed to Kilconquhar. In those days of reform, might not a new
division of parishes be conveniently adopted. There are no doubt
difficulties in the way of such an arrangement, but if necessary
changes could be accomplished, it would add much, in many places,
to the spiritual interests of the kingdom.*
  Topographical Appearances.--There are no hills, and scarcely
what can be called a rising ground in the parish. The land is
generally flat, and along the coast, which extends nearly two miles,
there is a considerable portion of what is called "links,"--the soil
being a bed of sand, and producing nothing that is useful. Dur-
ing the time of the late war, rabbits were encouraged to burrow
there, and, the price of skins being high, considerable sums of
money were made by the sale of them. Some still remain; but,
as there is no longer the same temptation to breed, the policy
of the farmers is now turned to rooting them out, in order to pre-
vent the injury which they do to the crops. The shore is sandy

  <FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, we have met with a hint of the same kind, in the re-
port to last Assembly of the Statistical Sub-Committee of the Church Extension
Committee. "To efflect a remedy for these disadvantages, must of necessity require
a lapse of time; but the Sub -Committee deem it of importance, that Presbyteries
should avail themselves of such occasions, as may, from, time to time. offer, by the
rebuilding of a church, to endeavour to obtain a more favourable situation for it, and
should also consider how far, by promoting judicious disjunctions and annexations,
q?oud sacra, of detached and distant portions of parishes,they might not in many cases
render the existing means of religious instruction available to a much greater extent
than at present."


