
            164                        PERTHSHIRE.

            improved, and, in general, subdivided by thorn hedges.   The
            higher ridges and knolls are for the most part planted with wood,
            of which there is a great extent in the parish.  No property in the
            country has been more improved, or had niore attention paid to it,
            in this respect, than that of Lord Lynedoch, who possesses two-
            thirds of the whole parish.  No expense has been spared in ex-
            tending, or altering, in any way, the arrangement and boundaries
            of the woods, wherever it would contribute to the ornament of the
            estate, or the beauty of the outline.     The grounds, accordingly,
            abound with beautiful prospects.  Few panoramic scenes, perhaps,
            are finer than that which is seen from Redgorton ridge, which
            commands a view of Scone Park and Palace, of the bridge and city
            of Perth, and the fertile valley on which it stands, vith the mighty
            Tay seen rolling through it, wherever the sweeping of the ground,
            or the opening of the woods, permits the eye to reach its channel -
            the whole bounded by a semicircle of hills, consisting ofthe Ochils
            on the one hand, and the Sidl`w Hills and the hills of Kinnoull
            and Moncrieff on the other, with the Fife Lowniond starting up to
            shut up the opening betwixt the one and the other.
               The other part of the parish, which is quite detached from the
            rest, lies beyond the parish of Moneydie, at the foot of the Gram-
            pians, running up the shoulder of one of them to the top, and com-
            prehends the barony of Mullion.  The aspect of the barony is
            very different from that of the lower part of the parish.   There
            are here no woods or lines of hedkes, with which the lower part is
            so abundantly clothed and sheltered, but open moorlaqd, field, and
            heathy mountain.  The soil, however, wherever it has been culti-
            vated,-and a -great deal has been done in this way by a very in-
            dustrious tenantry,-is a sharp, gravelly, or moorish loam; and in
            favourable seasons yields excellent crops, but liable, from the ele-
            vation of the district, to be nipt by the early frosts, before they have
            reached their full maturity.  The barony of Mullion is about three
            miles long by tbree-quarters of d mile broad, and thus may be
            stated as containing 1.875 square miles, so that the whole parish
            comprehends twelve square miles, or 7680 acres.  The Shochie
            here again bounds the parish, and separates it from the parish of
            Auchtergaven on the north; whilst another mountain strearn cal-
            led Crachie., which falls into the Shoehile at the boundary of the
            barony, separates iL from the parish of Monzie, annexed to the pa-
            rish of Moneydie quoad sacra.
               Hydrography.- There are no rivers that run through the parish,
            unless the united waters of the Shoebie and the Ordie were to


