
188                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

and Bridge of Dee, the population of which has already been
given.
    Market-Town.--Castle Douglas, in the parish of Kelton, is the
nearest market-town,and is situated at the distance of about six
miles from the centre of Balmaghie. There are two branch post-
offices in the parish. The length of turnpike road ma be estimated
at about sixteen mile. The fences along the way sides are in
very good repair; and the same remark applies to the bridges.
That across the Dee at Glenlochar was built by subscription about
the beginning of this century, and is substantial and commodious.
    Ecclesiastical State.--The church, which was built in 1794,
and is in a good state of repair, is situated near the Dee, and
consequently at one side of the parish. It is seated for nearly
four hundred persons. No payment is exacted for sittings, but
the whole of the church is allocated to the respective estates,
with the exception of the bommunion seats, which are capable of
accommodating thirty-six pdrsons, and are free to all.
    The manse was built near the beginning of the present century,
and is in an excellent state of repair. The extent of the glebe is
fourteen Scots acres, and may be worth about thirty shillings per
acre. The stipend is sixteen chalders, half barley and half meal.
    There are about 112 individuals professing to adhere to the
Church of Rome, and 22 Episcopalians. There are 11 persons
connected with the Reformed Synod, and three families with the
United Associate Synod.
    Education.--There are two parochial schools, one of which is
situated in the village of Laurieston, and the other at Glenlochar.
The salary connected with the former is L.30 Sterling, and the
school fees may yield an equal sum. That of the teacher at Glen-
lochar is L.21, 6s. 6 1/2d. Sterling, and the school fees may amount
to L.14. Adwelling-house has lately been erected by the heritors
for the teacher at Laurieston. There is a third school at Bridge
of Dee, endowed by the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge, to whom the lands in that neighbourhood belong. The
salary paid to the teacher, including certain items allowed him,
is nearly L.20, and the school fees may be estimated at L.25. He
is accommodated with a house and offices.
    Sunday schools have been established in three different locali-
ties, and are at present attended by upwards of 100 young people.
    Library.--A subscription library was commenced many years
ago, and is still in existence; but the members are not numerous.


