
                           EDINBURGH.                        717

   The Sheriff Court is held in the County Hall Buildings, Lawn-
market, as also the Justice of Peace and Small Debt Courts.
   The County Hall, in which the meetings of the county gentle-
men and lord lieutenancy are held, was erected in 1816, and
cost L. 15,000. It is a large building, with a portico after a Grecian
model, and the interior contains apartments for the Sheriff Court,
clerks' offices, &c.
   Register House.-This large and elegant building stands at the
east end of Princes Street, and opposite the termination of the
North Bridge. It was founded in 1774, and built by a govern-
ment grant of L. 12,000 obtained by the Earl of Morton out of
the sales of forfeited estates. Only part of the original plan of the
building was at first erected, and the other half was added in 1822.
In the centre is a large circular hall surrounded by a dome cover-
ed with copper, and the rest of the building is divided into nume-
rous apartments for the different offices connected with the esta-
blishment. Here all the public records of Scotland are deposited,
as well as those connected with the private property of the country.
   The Lord Register has the chief direction of the office, and the
clerks of the Court of Session are his deputies.
   Excise Office.-The general establishment now is considerably
curtailed, and is managed by a receiver-general and solicitor.
   The General Board of Customs is also reduced, and the office
formerly held here has been transferred to Leith.
   Police Establishment.-It has been already stated that, after the
dismay and alarm caused by the defeat of James the Fourth's
army at the battle of Flodden, the citizens of Edinburgh took
measures for the defence of the town. A muster of the inhabi-
tants took place; and every fourth man was obliged in turn to
take his duty as one of the night watch. Hence arose the practice
of what was called watching and warding. In 1648 the town-
council appointed a guard of 60 men, who were to form a per-
manent company, and to receive a state pay. They were corn-
manded by a captain and two lieutenants. As the pay of this
guard was raised by public contribution, the citizens began to
grumble I at the expense; and on more than one occasion the
old system of watching and warding was resorted to. But the
habits of the citizens were daily becoming less and less military;
and turned more to trade and business; so that at the Revolu-
tion of 1688, although, on the complaint of the town-council, the
   EDINBURGH.                                  Z z


