                              PARISH OF MOONZIE.

                   PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

              THE REV. ALEXANDER KIDD, D. D., MINISTER.


                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
              Name.-AT a very early period, previous to the year 1238, the
           parish was called Urhithumonesyn. It afterwards assumed the
           name of Auchtermonsey. Moonzie, its present name, is gene-
           rally supposed to be a Gaelic word, which signifies the Hill of the
           Deer.
              Extent, &c.-Moonzie is one of the smallest parishes in Scot-
           land, being not quite two English miles in length, and one and a-
           half mile in breadth. It approaches in figure to a parallelogram,
           and is bounded on the east by the parish of Cupar, on the south
           by Monimail, on the west by Criech, and on the north by Kil-
           meny. Like the greater part of the north side of Fife, it presents
           a varied surface of hill and dale. To the west, there are several
           beautiful rising grounds of no great height, which descend with a
           gentle slope to the east, and terminate in a valley of considerable
           extent. Its elevation above the level of the sea may be about 300
           feet. The only stream worth mentioning, Moonzie Burn, takes
           its rise from Lordscairnie Myre, and after winding its way through
           several parishes to the eastward, falls into the Eden, near the Inner
           Bridge.
              In the farm of Lordscairnie, there was formerly a loch, or myre
           of considerable extent, nearly two miles long, and in some places
           about a quarter of a mile broad. About forty years ago it was
           drained at considerable expense, and converted into arable ground.
           By paring and burning the surface of the soil, many excellent crops
           of oats adds turnips were at first procured. But its fertility is now
           much diminished, and its produce great lessened. An attempt was
           made several years ago to dry the moss more completely, by deep-
           ening the former drains, and excavating the rook at the point where
           the water flows out, and it was supposed that this would renew the
           soil, and render it more productive. It has only, however, been


