
186                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

It forms, as justly described in the former Statistical Account,
two segments of a circle-the one, beginning at the mouth of
the Ugle, terminates at Scotstown Craig, and the other extends
from there to Rattray-head."  A strong natural rampart of closely
connected clay hills, elevated by the accumulation of drift sand,
and thickly covered with bent grass, divides the shore from the
land, and is of vast consequence in preventing the blowing of the
sand by strong easterly winds.  Along this line, but of various
breadth, runs a plain of the finest downs or links perhaps in Scot-
land, affording excellent pasture for sheep and young cattle, and ca-
pital ground for the golf-player, though perhaps rather too level for
the lovers of a hazardous game.  The lower part of the parish, to
the extent of a mile from the shore, presents a flat appearance,
from whence it gradually rises in elevation towards the western ex-
tremity, with many beautiful undulations.  There is no elevation
in the parish which merits the designation of a hill, if we except
an eminence of inconsiderable height in the vicinity of Inverugie
Castle, known by the name of the Castle-hill.  Though naked in
winter from the general absence of trees, the parish presents to the
eye of the stranger entering it from the south, in summer, a love-
ly and inviting aspect-by exhibiting one unbroken spread of culti-
vated surface.  The mosses, which are not within sight of the main
road, are the only land which has not yet yielded to the conquest
of the plough.
   Meteorology-Climate.-From its proximity to the sea, and the
retentive quality of the soil, the climate of this parish is rather
cold and damp.  Of late years the springs have been less mild and
the winters less severe, than they are reported to have been in for-
mer times.  Here it may be truly said in the language of the poet,
                      "Spring is but the child
              Of churlish winter in her froward moods,
             Discovering much the temper, of her sire."

The mean range of the thermometer in summer is from 52&deg; to
57&deg;, and in winter from 38&deg; to 48&deg; on Fahrenheit's scale; and that
of the barometer, in summer, from 29.49 to 29.56, and in winter
from 29.40 to 29.47.  The autumnal frosts for the last fifteen
years have not set in so, early or with such severity, as previous to
that period.  Formerly, the growth gained by the trees in summer
was generally lost in winter; the tender shoots being nipt by the
early frost before they were sufficiently matured to resist it.  Now
we see the crown bud of the last years branch giving birth in
spring to its natural successor.
   Notwithstanding the humidity of the atmosphere, and the fre-


