
     Statistical Account

sea, considerably elevated above its level; the one on the N.
side of the entrance to the bay, and in the county of Ross,
the other on the S. side in the county and parish of Cromarty.
The body of water between the Sutors, is about a mile and a
half in breadth, and forms the grand entrance to the bay of
Cromarty*.  There is the finest anchorage ground that can
be (after passing the Sutors) for several miles up the bay.
There is a vast depth of water, on both sides, almost close to
the shore; and such withal is the favourable and smooth state
of the shore, on both sides, that were a vessel driven from
her cables, and cast ashore, there would be little or no da-
mage incurred; such instances seldom happen, and without
any material injury to the vessel.  Such is the vast extent of
sea-room in this bay, and such the capacious description of
its length, depth, and breadth, that almost the whole British
Navy might, with the greatest safety, ride within the view
of this place.  Accordingly, it is remarkable, that in all vio-
lent easterly storms, when no vessel can venture to look into
any port of the E. coast of Scotland from the Frith of Forth
northwards, all vessels, thus situated, flock into this bay as a
place of safety.  Upwards of 30 vessels, at a time, have re-
peatedly been driven up here, and found shelter from the
storm.  There was a most commodious quay built here, in

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The etymology of the name Sutor, is uncertain.  In a curious, though
whimsical production, written by Sir Thomas Urquhart of Cromarty, it is as-
serted, I know not upon what authority, that these promontories were named
by the Greeks, and that, from this they retain the name Sutors.  Other
derivations might be sought out, but so fanciful as scarce to merit notice, as in-
deed there is great scope for imagination on such subjects.  Sir Thomas Ur-
quhart's account of the matter, so far accords with the description of the bay
of Cromarty, that when a vessel, of whatever size or burden, and in the most
boisterous storm that blows, gets once fairly within the Sutors, there is no
safer riding in the world.  Other causes, however, conspire to entitle this bay
to the name of Portus Salutis, as Buchanan terms it.

</UNREADABLE>


