
     Statistical Account

stood, to preserve the absurd distinction of out-field and in-
field, which formerly prevailed.  On the farms which lie
near to Perth, no strict rotation of crops has been observed;
having the command of lime and other manure, by an easy
carriage from Perth and Bridge-end, the farmers can keep
their ground in good heart without it; but it would certainly
be better, were they to observe a regular rotations as the
ground would thereby be kept in proper order at a smaller
expence; and it would contribute greatly to their advantage,
if more attention was paid in cutting down thistles, and other
weeds around their fields, before they shed their seed.  There
is not much summer fallow used here; but the end of a fallow
is in a good measure attained by the horse-hoeing of turnip
and potatoes, which, when done with attention, effectually
destroys the annual weeds, and cleans the ground.  A great
deal more grain is raised in the parish, than would serve the
inhabitants; and it is generally of an excellent quality, and
brings a good price in the market.  The prices of grain vary
according to circumstances, and the state of the preceding
crops.  The seed time commences commonly in March, and
closes with May.  Wheat is sown from the middle of Sep-
tember, to the end of October.  The harvest generally begins
about the end of August, or the beginning of September.
The present medium rent of land, may be about L. 1: 8 per
acre; a few acres near to the church of Kinnoul, are let at
L. 5; others at L. 3: 3 per acre.  Such is the value of land in
this neighbourhood, that 5 acres, which pay of feu-duty and
public burdens, about L. 14 per annum; were sold about 9
years ago, for L. 560.  The general contents of the parish
are about 2906 Scots acres; of which 2214 are arable and
pasture lands, a small proportion excepted.  The remaining
692 acres are planted chiefly with Scotch fir; intermixed
with larixes, beech, and other forest trees.  Large quantities
     1


