
                              BRECHIN.                            133

after which they are complete to the present date. In the register
of baptisms, the earliest entry is in 1612; from which time the re-
gister is continued withott any interruption to 1725, when it be-
comes imperfect, and consists of occasional entries made on de-
tached leaves, or folded sheets, till the year 1753; from which time
it is continued to the present. The register of marriages, or rather
of proclamations, commences in 1700, and continues for a few
years; but downwards to 1784 it is very defective. There are some
proclamations recorded betwixt 1749 and 1781; but for many years
prior to 1749 there is no record existing.
	Antiquities.--There are in the upper part of the town ruins of
the ancient chapel of Maison Dieu, an alm's-house connected with
the cathedral, now covered with a roof, and used for the humble
purpose of a stable. The round-tower adjoining the cathedral,
complete and well built, probably of Pictish origin, has been often
and long admired, while the purposes for which it has been erect-
ed have been matter of various conjecture. Two bells, formerly
placed within it, have been of late years transferred to the square
tower beside it, which contains another large bell and a good clock.
The west end of the cathedral, repaired upwards of twenty years
ago, and forming a handsome parish church, was originally built
by King David I. in the eleventh century. It has two rows of pil-
lars, with Gothic arches, and a large and elegant window on the
west. The eastern part or choir, in which some special rites
of the church of Rome were performed, was thrown down at the
time of the Reformation. There is a burial place at the eastern
extremity of the parish, which receives the name of Magdalene's
Chapel, although no traces of a place of worship now remain.
	Modern Buildings.--Towards the north end of the town, near
the old chapel in Maison Dieu Wynd, there is a chapel for the
use of the Scottish Episcopalians, built about twenty years ago, and
enlarged and beautified last year, particularly on the west end,
which is neatly finished with two minarets on each side of the cross
in the centre. There are four Presbyterian meeting-houses, which
are plain, commodious edifices;--one of them was till lately used as
an English Episcopal chapel. The town-house, in the middle of
the town, near the cross or market-place, was almost wholly rebuilt
about thirty years ago, and is now a respectable edifice. It con-
tains an excellent guild-hall on the second floor, with two smaller
rooms for the meeting of council, and a court-room and prison be
low. The public school-rooms, three in number, built by sub-


