
372                         FIFESHIRE.

is a turnpike road crossing the parish from St Andrews to An-
struther, which are both sea-ports-and have both a weekly market
for grain-the distance from four to five miles. Yearly, there are
15 horse and black-cattle fairs, within seven miles. We are sur-
rounded by post-offices ; one is within three, another four, and an-
other five miles. Other three post-offices are within seven rniles,.
There is a curricle which plies thrice a week across the parish,
from Anstruther to St Andrews. From St Andrews to Cupar, the
county town, a distance of eleven miles, two coaches run weekly;
in a like space, they go twice to Dundee, the same distance as Cu-
par. The fuel used in the parish is coal, which may be found sea-
borne at either of the adjacent towns above-mentioned, or at the
coal mines in the interior of' the country, not more distant than
those towns.
  Inns.-There are two inns in the parish, which are-sources of
no intemperance.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The stipend of Dunin0 was augmented
in 1709. About fort -two yearsago. Dr Brown, then incumbent,
received a considerable addition. The former and present mini-
ster received also an augmentation, and the living, beside the sti-
pend victual payable by the fiars, nice tides 63 old Scotch bolls, half
oatmeal and half barley, at L. 851, 13s. Id. of surrendered teind,
which, with a manse and offices erected about fifteen years ago,
and 23 acres of glebe, may amount to L. 260 a year. The
present incumbent, Mr Roger, is the eighth minister of the pa-
rish since 1697, when Mr Knox, a relative of the great Re-
former, John Knox, was inducted into office. The church of Dunino
was built in 1826, and is a neat Gothic edifice, with an altar-win-
dow in the west gable. It contains thirty-two pews, designed for
six sitters in each, but might hold seven, in all 224. The area
in the church has been divided by the sheriff as under:-The
patron, the United College of St Andrews, had the first choice.,
the minister next, and the heritors according to their valued rent.
The parochial schoolmaster has a pow, and all the other pews are
proportionally annexed to the estates, aDd, divided among the far-
mers and their dependents, excepting eight pews in front of the
pulpit and adjoining, which are let by the kirk-session, and these
form the sacred tables at the communion season. The number of
communicants generally is from 130 to 160; but upwards Of
200 have- been known to communicate. The church is centri-


