
			   ST QUIVOX.                121

fit for the butcher at an earlier age than any other stock with
which they have been compared. Eleven or twelve pounds is no
uncommon price for bullocks sold to the buthcher, in the month of
April, then just two years old, and which have been well reared
with milk, and fed during the winter with turnip. Only a few
sheep, as pets, are bred in the parish, and those fed on turnip are
generally of the black-faced kind, bred in the Highlands or Gal-
loway.
   Husbandry.-Husbandry is in a flourishing state, and the land,
in possession of a very intelligent and industrious tenantry, has                                                                               \
of late years been much improved.  On the light soils, which
comprehend a large proportion of the parish, a five years' rotation
is generally observed:-1. oats; 2. green crop, consisting of
turnips, potatoes, carrots or magel-wurzel; 3. wheat or barley;
4. hay, or sown grasses pastured with sheep or cows; 5. pasture.
Manure for the green crops in purchased in Ayr at about 3s. per
cart, but on the fams near the town, the inhabitants are allowed
to plant their own potatoes with their manure. The farmer works
the land, leads the manure, for which he is paid, and charges the
cottager ls. per boll for potatoes produced, as rent. Turnips,
chiefly Swedish, are the prevailing green crops. Of these one half
are drawn to feed bullocks or dairy stock, and the other half are
consumed on the ground by sheep. On the farm of Shields, si-
tuated about four miles from Ayr, occupied by Mr J. Tenant, an
extensive dairy has been substituted for the feeding of bullocks.
About 60 cows are kept in the highest conditition, being fed in the
winter with boiled Swedish turnip, carrot, mangel-wurzel, and
bean meal, and are always fit for the butcher when the milk fails.
The whole of the milk is churned; the buttermilk sold in Ayr;
and the butter, which, by the mixture of a small quantity of salt-
petre with the milk, has been entirely freed from any unpleasant
turnip flavour, is carried to Edinburgh and Glasgow markets.
On this farm the practice of feeding sheep on turnip, and pastur-
ing the sown grasses, instead of cutting hay, was first introduced
into the parish; and the land, having now passed three or four
times through the rotation on this system, is so much improved,
that 60 milch cows are kept well on the same number of acres
which, at the commencement, barely supported 40.
   The light soils in some parts kept in a marshy state by
springs, have been dried by deep box drains covered with small
stone; and on the stiff soils, the practice of furrow-draining, with


