
			      HAMILTON.                      281

eight Scotch pints, or sixteen quarts a day; and many of them give
upwards of twice that quantity. During the summer months cer-
tain cows have been known to yield a pound of butter per day.
This, however, is much beyond the average produce of the dairy,
and it is perhaps near the truth when we average each cow at from
L.4 to L. 8 of profit per annum.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of grazing is from L. 2, 10s.
to L. 3, 10s. per cow or ox. Farms are mostly let on leases of
nineteen years; but in some instances they are only let from year
to year. The rent is paid in money, or occasionally in grain.
The amount paid varies with the soil. In the higher groundr few
spots let on permanent lease for less than 15s. per acre; while in
the lower farms on the Clyde the rent is as high as L. 3 and L. 3,
10s. per acre. A very large proportion of the parish lets at from
L. 1, 5s. to L. 2, 5s. per acre. Some fields near the town which have
lain long in pasture have been let for a few years at upwards of
L. 12 per acre. Much of the pasture in the haughs brings up-
wards of L. 4 per acre, About 1500 cows and oxen are annually
fed in this parish. The tilling of the ground employs about 280
horses. Wilkie's iron plough is now almost universally used.
	Rate of Wages.--Labourers have from 1s. 3d. to 1s. 6d. per
day, with victuals, and 2s. without. When regularly employed
their wages are from 9s. to 10s, per week. Women have from 6d.
to 10d. per day. Upwards of 130 masons are now employed at from
2s. 10d. to 3s. a-day. Mason's labourers have 10s. a-week; car-
penters have about 2s. 8d. a day; or from 16s. to 18s. a week.
	Much has of late been done in fencing and draining. The
hedges on the Duke's estate, in particular, are remarkably well
kept. Among the disadvantages with which the agriculturist has
to contend are, small farms, deficiency of capital, and competition
for leases, by which too much is offered, and thus the farmer too
frequently is little better than the servant of the laird; at the
same time, it ought to be remarked that the rental of land is ge-
nerally supposed to be somewhat lower here than in some other
places in the neighbourhood. This may probably arise from the
fact, that clay soils are cultivated at more expense than any other
description, as requiring greater force of men, cattle and implements,
and absorbing an immense quantity, of manure.
	Quarries.--There are six freestone quarries in the parish, wrought
by upwards of fifty men. The number of colliers ig about 120.
The average gross rental of the landward part of the parish is


