
                          GARTLY.                          101

  ing families, 10; ofpersons, 34; Episcopalian, 1; Roman Catho-
  lic, 1 ; of families, in which persons attending the Established
  Church and dissenters are nearly equal, 9; average number ofcom-
  municants in the Established Church, 400.  With the exception
  of prayer meetings, of which there are five or six in the parish,
  there are no societies for religious purposes established in the pa-
  risb, as it is near Huntly, where there are flourishing Bible and
  missionary societies, of which a considerable number of the people
  of this parish are members, and to which they contribute pretty
  liberally. The average amount of church collections for religious
  and charitable purposes, exclusive of the weekly Sabbath collec-
  tions for the poor, may be about L. IO Sterling a year.*
     Education.-There is only one regular permanent school in the
  parish, namely, the parochial; but there are generally one or two
  schools taught by females for the benefit of young children, and
  the instruction of girls in sewing; and during the winter, one or two
  teachers are frequently engaged for instructing the children of such
  families as are at a distance from the parish school, in reading,
  writing, and arithmetic. These branches, together with Latin and
  the elements of mathematics, are taught at the parish school. The
  general annual expense of education is, for reading, 10s. ; reading
  and writing, 12s. - arithmetic 16s.; Latin, L. 1; mathematics, &c.
  L. 1, 1Os. The children between six and fifteen years of age are in
  general taught to read, and the greater part of them also to write.
  Children above ten years of age could generally attend school, with
  the exception of three families, whose distance from it is about seven
  miles; but an additional school for these families and others who
  are more than four miles from school, would be of great conse-
  quence. The salary of the schoolmaster, including the statutory
  allowance for a garden, is about L. 32, 10s. and the amount of
  school fees, L. 15.
     Literature.-There is a parochial library in the parish, consist
  ing of upwards of 200 volumes on divinityj history, biography, voy-
  ages, travels, and on other subjects connected with agriculture,-
  which has, it is hoped, been instrumental in increasing the intelli-
  gence and promoting the moral improvement of the people.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.- The average number of persons re-
  ceiving parochial aid is 20, and the average sum allotted to each an-
  nually, nearly L. 2 Sterling. The annual amount of funds for their

  <FOOTNOTE>Since this Account was given in, a society for religious purposes has been esta-
  blished in the parish, which is likely to prosper.


