
     Statistical Account

fire.  The cross part of the building, lay uncovered till 1588,
when it was, again fitted up for use, by means of general tax-
ations laid on the inhabitants, by the authority of the town
council, and by voluntary contributions.  One of the princi-
pal contributors was captain Henry Lyell of Blackness, who,
in an inscription, (on which are his arms, the same with those
of Lovell,) asssumes the merit of the whole.
   At the reformation, only two ministers seem to have been
established in the parish, one called the Parson, and the other
the Vicar.  The Scrymseours of Dudhope, constables of the
castle, were patrons of the first charge and the patronage of
the last belonged to the community.  As the care of the pa-
rish was too laborious for two ministers, Mr. James Robert-
iron the vicar, on obtaining in 1608, a fixed stipend of 800
merks, resigned to the patrons his vicarage; and, about 1609,
they appointed in his room an additional minister, Mr. Wil-
liam Wedderburn, who, in 1613, received also a fixed stipend,
equal to that of Mr. Robertson and gave up to the council
the more casual and insufficient produce of the vicarage.
Though these transactions do not appear to have been autho-
rised, by any decree of the Lords of Erectious, and no consent
appears to have been either asked or obtained from the pa-
tron of the first charge, the patronage of both the ethers was
considered as the undoubted property of the community.  The
parish was thus supplied with three ministers, one drawing
his living from, the parsonage teinds, and the other two from
the various funds within the borough; and they have always
officiated as colleagues in the two places of worship, the choir
and the fourth part of the cross building in the ancient church.
As the inhabitants were found too numerous for being ac-
comodated in two churches, the magistrates, in the year 1759,
fitted up the north part of the cross building as a chapel of
cafe; and the town continuing to increase, they built, in
1789, a large and handsome new church, on the situation of


