
56                     BERWICKSHIRE.

are preserved, one by the minister, and the other by the session-
clerk.
   Antiquities.-At Crosshall about a mile to the north of the vil-
lage of Eccles, there is a cross or monument of white sandstone,
without any inscription. It consists of a column, which passing
through a base or pedestal, penetrates into the earth. The late
Sir John Paterson wished to remove it to near the mansion-house
of Eccles, and for that purpose employed workmen, who dug seve-
ral feet into the earth without being able to reach the foundation
of the column. An antiquarian would regret that this monument
has never been protected by any enclosure. The column above the
base measures 10 feet high, 1 foot 6 inches broad on the west and
east sides at the bottom, and 1 foot on the north and south. The
pedestal, which is a large solid block of sandstone, is 2 feet 6 inches
high, and 3 feet square on its upper surface, and is raised 1 foot
6 inches above the ground, so that the whole elevation of the cross
is 14 feet. The north face of the column presents the sculpture
of a cross Calvary, with the upper part surrounded by a kind of
shield. The west side gradually becomes narrower upwards, and
has at the summit a circular expansion 1 foot 6 inches in diameter,
with a cross, and below an escutcheon, with a cheveron in the dex-
ter and sinister chiefs,* and precise middle base respectively, and
a St John's cross. The south has an escutcheon similar to that
on the west side, and beneath an ancient double-handed sword:
the east a circular expansion at top, with a cross, and below, the
naked figure of a man and a greyhound. Some have supposed that
this monument was raised to the memory of one of the Percies of
Northumberland. The conjecture of Mr Robertson is more pro-
bable, that it was erected after the second crusade, which happened
in 1114, (the crosses referring, perhaps, to the Holy War,) in ho-
nour of the father of Sir John de Soules, Lieutenant or Viceroy
to John Baliol. The local tradition says, that a governor of Hume
Castle was killed on the spot in a skirmish. The place where it
stands was, till lately, called Deadriggs, and is reported by tradi-
tion to have been so named from a battle which was fought there,
in which the slaughter was so great, that the small stream of Lip-
rick, a little to the north, ran with bloodfor twenty-four hours.
   On the hill of Hardacres, about a mile to the north-west of the

<FOOTNOTE>Trans. Soc. of Antiq. Scotland, 4to, 1792, Vol. i. p. 269, where there are a de-
scription and drawings of the monument by Roger Robertson, Esq. of Ladykirk.
The present writer's measurements differ slightly from his, and if Mr Robertson's are
correct, the monument must have sunk 10 inches.


