
270                      KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

bourhood of Ayr. Mr Lennox, of Linneluden, in this parish, re-
sides in New York. Well wood Maxwell, Esq. of Barncleugh is
also a proprietor in this parish. Wellwood Maxwell, Esq. of the
Grove, an extensive merchant in Liverpool, has an estate on the
south-eastern extremity of the parish, which is principally under
his own management. He has lately built an elegant and com-
modious mansion, after a design by Rickman, a self-taught archi-
tect of very considerable celebrity. The entrance faces the south,
and is surmounted by a square tower. The front is towards the
east, and commands from the upper part a view of Dumfries and
the surrounding country. The other chief land-owners are Fran-
cis Maxwell, Esq. of Drumpark, and Alexander Hamilton Welsh
of Skan, the representative of a very old family.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers are pretty volu-
minous. The date of the earliest entry is 1691. From 1694 to
1756, a period of sixty-two years, during which Mr James Guthrie
was minister of the parish, they were very accurately kept.

                       III.-POPULATION.
	Amount of population in 1801,                         730
				1811,                         841
				1821,                         880
				1831, 435 males, 477 females, 912
				1841,                         927
			IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Number of acres, imperial measure, cultivated,        7125
					waste,                5225
					under wood,           2114
	The average rent of arable land per acre is 18s.  The average
rent of grazing for the year, per ox, L.2; per cow, including win-
ter keep, L.7; per sheep, on hill pasture, 4s.; do. on cow pas-
ture, and turnips part of the year, 10s.
	Live-Stock.--The cattle are chiefly of the Galloway breed, which
are considered to be best suited to the soil and climate, and are ge-
nerally sold at from two to three years old, and sent south to be
fattened for the English markets. Many of the formers, however,
are beginning to adopt a different system, viz. to fatten their cattle
at home, and then send them south by steam to the market. This
system, if fully acted upon, will put an end to droving, which has
proved of late years so ruinous to all concerned. The sheep on the
bill lands are black-faced, rather small in the bone, and partake
much of the general character of the Galloway breed. Horses are
reared here in considerable numbers. The best are of the Clydes-
dale kind; and, as a good deal of attention has been paid of late


