
                	       KINGLASSIE.                          197


siduity which accompanied the discharge of his pastoral duties.
During the last fifteen years of his life, his ministerial labours were
lightened, and his tottering steps sustained by the faithful and un-
wearied services of his son William, who had been ordained assist-
ant and successor on the 13th March 1750. In less than five
years the son, after a protracted illness, followed the father to the
grave, in the forty-ninth year of his age.
   Antiquities,-A pillar of hewn stone, 4 feet 9 inches in height
above the socket in which it is embossed, 7 1/2 inches broad, and 11
inches thick, has, from time immemorial, stood upon the farm. of
Dogtown. It bears the remaining marks of some hieroglyphical
emblems or ornamental sculpture in relief, which have been defa-
ced by the "peltings of the pitiless storm," or the rude touch of de-
structive man. Antiquarians have conjectured that this column
was set up by the Danes, to commemorate the exploits of some il.-
lustrious warrior who had fallen on the spot, during an engage-
ment consequent upon their hostile invasion of Fife, in the reign
of Constantine II.; while others have supposed that it was rear-
ed by the Scots to perpetuate their successful resistance of the
foreign foe, who had encamped on both sides of the Leven. We
learn from the page of the historian, that those depredators hav-
ing been prevented from uniting their forces, in consequence of
the sudden and extensive swelling of the river, were speedily and
effectually routed by the Scots. Goat-milk-hill constituted one
of the links in the chain of Danish forts, which stretched from
Fifeness to Stirling. While those positions were occupied by the
invaders, a mill was erected on the Leven, which retains the name
of Mill-danes. During the recent operations of levelling the chan-
nel of that water, several heads of iron spears, a Roman sword,
and battle-axe presented themselves. A dagger of antique appear-
ance, 18 inches long, having a wooden handle, partially overlaid
with brass, was lately found in a draw-well on the farm of west
Finglassie, which was reopened after having remained shut, so far
as can be as certained, for centuries.
   Parochial Registers.-The most remote records of baptisms and
sessional procedure bear the date Of A. D. 1627. Those of mar-
riage contracts commence twenty years subsequent to that period.
Instead of classification having been always duly observed, there is an,
occasional commingling of matters belo ing to these separate de-
partments. Unless by those familiar with obsolete manuscripts,
some of the ancient registers are not legible. For many years past,


