
                        KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                  1249

         At a remote period, aiid before the vale of Monteith was so
      much improved as it is now, by draining, and the receding Of the
      waters, this river, with its beautiful source, was called the Lake of
      the Guidi, or Guddie, because, by its -level course and tniany
      windings and interruptions, it formed, especially in the rairry sea.
      sons, a complete morass.
         The Teith is of a different character from the Forth and Goodie.
      The name Teith is supposed td be derived from Teth or Te, sig-
      nifying hot, and is said to have received its name from its ra-
      pid progress, in the higher parts of the river, over a channoe con-
      sisting of innumerable round stones and pebbles, which, from the
      beautiful clearness of its waters reflecting the sun's rays, give it a
      sparkling prismatic appearance.  Flowing eastward from Lochs
      Katrine, Achray, and Vennacbar, on the south side, and from
      Loch Lubnaig, on the north side of Benledi, (its two branches
      meeting above Callander,) it may well be called "Daughter" not
      "of three," but of "four mighty lakes." It bounds Kiricardine parish
      on the nortb, (a portion of Kilmadock intervening,) from about
      four miles below Callander, to its junction with the Forth at
      the extremity of this parish, about two and a-half miles west of
      Stirling.   Its gravelly channel, and the lakes at its sourcess, ope-
      rating as so many filters, give a beautiful clearness and freshness
      to its waters.  Although it loses its name by its junction with the
      impure and sluggish Forth, yet it sends one-half more water into
      the Fritb of Forth than that river does.  Its length from Callan-
      der to this junction is about thirteen miles; and, except where
      pools occur, some of which are very deep, it is shallow; and its
      breadth is generally contracted by its firm and rockyr banks.  Af-
      ter much rain, or the melting of deep snow, when the mountain
      streams pour their contents into it, its rise is sudden, and, over-
      flowing its banks in various places, it sweeps irresistibly, before it
      every moveable object within its reach.  Its velocity is increased
      by a uniform fall from Callander to its junction with the Forth of
      about 200 feet.  Were it not out of place here, we might dwell
      on the natural grandeur and beauties of this river, with its adja-
      cent scenery, such as the elegant mansion-houses, tastefully orna-
      mented  parks thriving plantations, and agricultural improvements
      which adorn tbe course of the Teith; but this would be superflu-
      ous, because the immortal Sir Walter Scott, in his Lady of the
      Lake, has celebrated in song this part of Perthshire.
         PERTH.                            4 x


