
                                   PERTH.                         73

     work called Low's Wark, which is the retainer and closer of the
     said mill-lade.  On the east bank of the lade, and Within a
     short distance from the city, there is a stone wall through which
     there is a hole or perforation called a boot or bout,* having a strong
     ring of iron at both ends, 32 inches in circumference.  Through
     this boot there passes a considerable body of water, which forms
     the aqueduct that supplies the mills of Balhousie.  The antiquity
     of the boot appears from a contract (recorded in the city archives,)
     between the Eviots of Balhousie, and the alderman, bailies, coun-
     cil, and cnmmunity of Perth, dated 19th June 1464, that the boot
     shall be taken up and newly made, of thirty-two inches of wide-
     ness within at both ends, and banded with iron both within and
     without at both ends.  This stone work was repaired about sixty
     years ago, and the rings adjusted according to the original con-
     tract, in presence of commissioners appointed by the Earl of Kin-
     noul, (who had then become proprietor of Balhousie,) and the
     magistrates of Perth.
        With respect to "pieces of antiquity dug up in the parish," there
     are none of value and importance.  In the rubbish of that part of the
     city wall that was pulled down in 1790, to make way for the erec-
     tion of the George Inn, George Street, there was found a copper
     coin of Caesar Augustus, of nearly the size of the present current pen-
     ny, legend distinct.  It is in the possession of Mrs Ramsay of Croft.
     When the Old Parliament House, High Street, was thrown down
     in 1818, there were found in it coins, chiefly Bruce's, Balliol's and
     Alexander's.  They were all silver pennies, with the exception of
     a few Bruces.  Mr Duncan, druggist Edinburgh, the proprietor,
     presented some of them to the Museum of the Antiquarian So-
     ciety.  In an old house on the north side of St John's Church,
     there were found when it was taken down last spring, some silver
     coins.  They were all Mary's.  Two of them are in my posses-
     sion.

     <FOOTNOTE>There is a tradition respecting this boot, vhich it may be proper to notice.  It
     is, that a proprietor of Balhousie, wishing to erect a mill near his house, applied to
     the King, requesting to have from his lade at a given place, a bootful of water, which
     being granted, he produced a, boot without a sole, and that be thus obtained a per-
     petual current for his mill.  The tradition carries absurdity in the face of it.  The
     following fact shows clearly enough how the boot may have originated.  King Alex-
     ander II. granted to the Dominican Monastery a pipe of water from the same lade or
     canal, "4 inches in wideness," but with the express condition that it should not be to
     the detriment of a mill belonging to him at Perth.  Upon a similar principle may
     the limited quantity of water have been granted to the Balhousie propprietor for his                                                    rietoi    h,
     mill.
        The tradition appears to have been credited in 1600, as in the original Latin char-
     ter the word is translated, "ocream."


