
224

	             ADDITION TO THE ACCOUNT OF

crease the size of cattle, and also to quicken their fattening for
the butcher.
   Prices.-It is stated in the old Account, that, "during the pre-
vious thirty years, provisions were tripled in price, but not improved
in quality," and that in 1762, a good mart cow could be purchased
for 15s. When a whole carcase was purchased, the beef was had at
a penny per pound; and in 1795, a mart cost L. 2, 10s.  At the same
date, farmers paid their men servants from L. 1, 10s. to L. 4 a
year; and female servants from 10s, to L. 1. Day-labourers, from
6d. to 8d. without victuals; tradesmen's wages from 1s. to 1s. 6d.
Eggs were then three-halfpence a dozen; a good fowl 6d.;
chickens 3d. a pair; beef and mutton from 2d. to 2 1/2d. per lb.
   At present, the wages of a man-servant for farm-work is L. 8 a
year; of a woman servant L. 3. The hire of a labourer in sum-
mer is 1s. per day without victuals, or 6d. with victuals. In winter,
he is paid by the hour. Harvest hire for a man is from L. 1, 5s.
to L. 1, 10s.; for a woman, from 14s. to 18s. Mowers receive 1s.
6d. a day, and six meals. The same number of meals is expect-
ed by farm-servants, during the seed time. Eggs are now 4d. a
dozen; fowls 8d. a piece; chickens 6d. a pair; beef and mutton
from 41/2d. to 6d. per pound.
   Fisheries.-It has been already stated that every householder
has a share of a boat, by which at intervals of leisure he may pro-
cure for his family a supply of fish, which forms a material article
in their diet. They are also all adventurers in the herring fish-
ing, which occupies them, including the preparations for it, about
two months. These two months could be spared from the care
of their farms, under the old mode of farming, without much in-
convenience; but it is rather doubtful, how far their engaging in
this fishing may be compatible with their following out, with due
activity and exactness, the improvements connected with their
leases, by preparing compost manure, keeping clean their green
crops, and harvesting their hay, the more especially, as the for-
mer part of the season is occupied chiefly in carting home their
peats.
   But the fishing that might be prosecuted with the greatest and
surest emolument, and for which the country has peculiar facili-
ties, is the cod and ling fishery; but which, both from want of
capital and want of hands, has been hitherto neglected. For the
encouragement of hands making fishing their occupation, there


