
408                          AYRSHIRE.

consisting almost wholly of untitled and mossy soil. These ranges
rise to a height from 1000 to 1200 or 1400 feet above the level of
the sea. A fourth range rises to 2700 feet. It runs in an oppo-
site direction along the banks of the Minnoch, and forms thd com-
mencement of that line of almost mountainous elevation which
stretches from Ayrshire into Galloway.
     The natural history of the parish does not furnish any thing
remarkable. Palsy is prevalent; but, on the whole, the parish is
peculiarly healthy.
     There are several lochs varying from 6 to 12 and 15 feet deep,
and abounding in two species of trout, of a dark colour, and bright
yellow. The two principal streams are the Stichar and the Min-
noch. The Stinchar flows south-westerly, and passing through
Colmonell, empties itself into the sea at Ballantrae, after a course
of 25 miles. The Minnoch, after a few miles' run from the highest
range southward, loses itself in the Cree, which separates this pa-
rish and the county from Galloway. The velocity of these streams
is very great. There is one cascade in the former above 30 feet.
And on examination I find that there is scarcely one of the hundred
burns in this parish that has not its fall of considerable height and
beauty. The lochs are all destitute of wood, and so is the parish
in general, with the exception of a little edging of copse on the
banks of the Stinchar, and some young plantations of small extent,
made by two proprietors within the last thirty years.
     Geology.--The geological structure of the parish consists of the
slate formation, with a very high inclination. There are large irre-
fular beds of conglomerate; and there is some good limestone on
the banks of the lower part of the Stinchar. In the limestone form-
ing part of the bed of the river, some interesting and beautiful
specimens of fossil shells have been recently observed. The
limestone is occasionally wrought, and slate quarries have been
opened, but not with equal success. No ores have been disco-
vered. There are several mineral wells, chiefly chalybeate. One
was once in repute, but others elsewhere have risen to fame, and
it is forgotten. There is an immense extent of peat, with nume-
rous remains of wood, chiefly birch and hazel. The soil in the
holms is sharp and gravelly. A few of them are a good loam,
and very productive; that in the hills is nutritious when duly sup-
plied with moisture; but the great bulk of the parish consists of
a Wet, spongy, heathy, unproductive soil, with such grasses, sprit-
bent, &c. as are always found in land of a similar character.


