
          COUNTY OF RENFREW.                              541

Wernerian Transactions, read February 1815, has these remarks:
"The fact of the red sandstone being the fundamental rock of the
coal-field of the Forth was first pointed out to me by Mr Bald."
From researches in Lanarkshire, Dumbartonshire, and Renfrew-
shire, it appears also to be a demonstrable fact, that the old red-
stone is the foundation of the coal-field both of Renfrewshire and
Lanarkshire, and, moreover, these coal-fields, although in differ-
ent counties, are one.  Of this red sandstone or foundation rock
there are two formations, one, the oldest, rests immediately on grey-
wacke orgranitic rocks, the other on mountain limestone. There is
no mountain limestone in Clydesdale or Renfrewshire; but whether
they might or might not have been there, are questions not so easily
answered. The limestone above alluded to of both sorts may be ab-
sent, and then the two sandstone formations will come to rest on each
other, or the newer or the older formations may be wanting, and
from those and other circumstances it may be difficult to distinguish
the one from the other.  The red sandstone here is unques-
tionably of the older formation, or that which rests on the older
rocks, chiefly greywacke.  The great coal field between the two
friths is flanked with it completely on the northern boundary,
and in the south, although it only appears in continuous patehes,
yet we have sufficient proof that it is there, and that it is the
foundation rock of our coalfields.  But there is no need of trust-
ing to general principles to establish particular facts.  From ocu-
lar demonstration we can show, that the Lanarkshire and Renfrew-
shire coal-basins are one, and that this great field, which may be
termed independent, rests in its lower member on the old red
sandstone.  This latter formation in this district begins at Largs
in Ayrshire, runs directly north along that coast and the sea coast
of Renfrew to Port Glasgow, where it is cut off by the presence of
the wbin or trap rocks.  At Ardrossan, however, it comes imme-
diately into contact with the south-western extremity of the great
coalfield of Ayrshire, and here there is a junction of the two for-
mations first noticed by Dr Fleming of Aberdeen in 1807.  The
old red sandstone strata here stretch nearly north and south, and
dip to the east at an angle of about 30&deg;. Over these strata of red
sandstone are deposited beds of white coloured sandstone, slate-clay,
limestone, slate, coal, clay-ironstone, and greenstone, or, in other
words, the lower members of the independent coal formation.
These are unconformable as they stretch from east to west and dip
to the south. The Doctor observed, that "near the line of


