
	      WHITEKIRK AND TYNNINGHAME.                     37

famed, and are indeed so remarkable as to deserve particular no-
tice.  They were planted about the same time as the woods above-
mentioned; and by the same nobleman.  They are of great size
and extent, comprising altogether 2952 yards.  On the south-western
side of the mansion-house there is a grass walk, on each side of
which the hedges most remarkable in point of length are planted.
The walk is 743 yards long, and 36 feet wide; and the hedges on
each side of it are 11 feet broad at the base, and 15 feet high.
To the east of the garden and melon ground, they have been per-
mitted to rise higher; being kept there at a height of 18, 21, and
even 25 feet.  The hedge on the west boundary of the park is of
the same dimensions, and strangers have been rarely observed to
pass it, without some expression of their admiration.
   At the time these hedges were planted, Tynninghame possessed
little of that complete protection from the sea breeze which it
now enjoys; and so judicious an improver as Lord Haddington
saw readily the superiority of ever-green, and especially of holly,
over deciduous hedges.  His successors have preserved them with
the utmost care; they are clipped twice a year, and carefully de-
fended from cattle and sheep.  The hedges seem to have been
planted on banks so much raised as to keep the roots dry and suf-
ficiently drained; and their growth has been most vigorous in a
deep light loam.  There are many beautiful single holly trees, of
very considerable dimensions, not only in the neigbbourhood of the
mansion-house, but all over Binning Wood; from 5 feet to between
7 and 8 feet in circumference; and rising to a height of from 46
to 54 feet.  These add greatly in winter to the beauty and gaiety.
of the place.
   Grass, &c.-Rye-grass and clover, and the practice of fallowing
land, were introduced into East Lothian by the same patriotic
nobleman, to whom the county owes its finest woods and hedges.
The Earl of Haddington had brought down to Tynninghame seve-
ral English farmers, to assist him in executing his plans; and in
1708 "he fell heartily to work," and showed in practice, the im-
portance of these two most essential agricultural improvements.
His example was soon followed in the neighbourhood, and by de-
grees over the whole country. *

<footnote>It may gratify curiosity to mention some of the items of the sumptuous enter-
tainments given at Tynninghame, on the 21st of August 1679, at the baptist of this
early and distinguished benefactor of the country.  Every thing connected with him
seem to have been on agreat scale.  The account of them has been preserved in the
family household-book, and is as follows;- "For dinner of fresh beef, six pieces;


