
708 			      FIFESHIRE.

is said to be of an inferior quality.  Some of the plantations have
not been much attended to.  The management of them, however,
has, of late years, been much improved, and their value in conse-
quence been increased.
   Prices.--A close cart and wheels with iron axle costs from L.8 to
L.10, according to the quality; open carts for corn and hay cost
L.3; with wheels, L.6; an iron plough costs L.4; and a wooden
plough, L.2; a pair of harrows mounted costs L.2; a break har-
row for two or three horses costs from L.1, 10s. to L.2; fanners
vary in price from L.6 to L.8; a turnip barrow costs L.1 ; a stone
roller from L.3 to L.4; the price of an iron drill plough is L.2,
1Os., and of a wooden one, L.1; a horse-hoe costs L.1; a grub-
ber, L.8; a paring plough costs L.2; a drill sowing-machine va-
ries in price according to the width: one used in the parish cost
L.11; riddles average 3s. 6d. each; a bushel costs 12s.; a potato
firlot,1Os.6d.; harness of a pair of horses for cart and plough is
bought for L.10; a grape costs 3s.; a spade, 3s. 6d.; a shovel,
4s.; a mattock, 4s. ; a horse-shoe made and driven costs 9d., iron
furnished by the smith laying plough-irons, Is. 3d., iron also fur-
nished by the smith sharpening plough-irons, 2d.; shoeing a
pair of cart wheels, including iron, L.], 7s.; building ruble wall
per rood, exclusive of material, L.2, 5s.; plastering per yard, do.
3d.; a horse and cart per day, 4s. 6d. a day's ploughing, 8s.
   Live-Stock.-A considerable number of sheep are grazed in the
parish.  The cattle commonly reared are the Fife and Teeswater;
but small attention is paid to the improvement of the breed.  The
number of cattle reared in the parish is not great, the attention
of the farmers being more directed to the raising of grain than to
grazing.  The horses differ not from those generally used in the
district, and are, for the most part, kept in good condition.
   The general state of husbandry in the parish is at least equal
to that in the surrounding district.  Ploughing is executed, for the
most part, in a superior style; but the reaping is often done in ra-
ther a careless manner, much grain being left on the field.  Drain-
ing, both with stones and tiles, is at present carried on with much
spirit, on  almost every farm in the parish, and with the most bene-
ficial results.
   The general duration of leases is nineteen years; and these are
Chiefly, it is, believed, drawn up in such a way as to be mutually
advantageous to the proprietor and the tenant.
   Farm-buildings have been, much improved of late years; and


<FOOTNOTE>Of late, however, a good many have been fattened for slaughter.


