
926                            PERTHSHIRE.

   In the year 1837, the parish church having been found to be
much too small for the adequate accommodation of the parish-
ioners, and a chapel belonging to the burgher congregation being
then for sale, a subscription was entered into for the purpose of
purchasing the building, and opening it as a preaching station in
connection with the parish church. Nearly L.300 having accord-
ingly been raised by subscription, the chapel was purchased for
the sum of L.399, and the title taken to certain trustees (appoint-
ed by the subscribers,) and their successors in office, for behoof
of the subscribers; and the chapel was opened as a preaching
station in the month of December of the same year. The sub-
scription raised having proved inadequate for the payment of the
whole price, the Church Extension Committee granted L.100
from their funds for the benefit of the chapel. This sum has
completely relieved it of all debt, and the annual income aris-
ing from the seat rents and collections having hitherto proved suf-
ficient for the payment of the minister and all incidental charges,
the undertaking has turned out a most successful one, and pro-
mises to be of great and lasting benefit to the communhty at large.
The chapel is situated in Brown's Street, Blairgowrie, and is a
plain building of hewn stone. It is capable of containing about
600 souls, and is for the present amply sufficient for the supply of
the destitution of church accommodation which previously ex-
isted. The minister receives the whole free income arising from
the seat rents and collections, after deducting the necessary ex-
penses, and the sum paid to him from this source for the last
years was upwards of L.140. The seat rents, for the current half
year (December 1842) amount to L.42, Os. 4d., and the collec-
tions average upwards of L.1 per week.
   There is one Independent and one Catholic chapel in the pa-
rish, the ministers of which are paid, it is understood, partly from
the seat-rents and collections, and partly by voluntary contribu-
tions from the members of their congregations; but the annual
amount of their stipends is not known, being rather fluctuating and
uncertain. Public worship is performed in the Catholic chapel
only once a month, and it has no resident clergyman--the gentle-
man who officiates having his residence in Perth, and having un-
der his charge several other chapels besides the one in this town.
There is a considerable number of Seceders in the parish; but
no chapel belonging to that body within it bounds. Those, who
belong to that sect attend either the chapel lately erected in the


