
         			RERRICK.                        357

Dundrennan, with the village and ruined Abbey in the fore-
ground.
	It is impossible to tread this classic spot, without carrying back
our recollections to the period when the Abbey of Dundrennan
afforded a temporary shelter to the unfortunate Mary Stuart, dur-
ing the last hours she spent in Scotland. Tradition has traced,
probably with more of fancy than of accuracy, her course from
Langside to the scene of her embarkation for England. It has
been hitherto supposed that, passing through the wildest recesses
of the Glenkens, she reached Queenshill, so named from her rest-
ing sometime there, and now the seat of Mr Campbell, at the
head of the Vale of the Tarf. Proceeding in the direction of Tong-
land, she is said to have crossed the Dee by an ancient wooden
bridge, which then spanned the river about a mile above that place.
But this traditionary account of the Queen's progress from Lang-
side to Dundrennan has been recently discredited by the publica-
tion of Historical Memoirs of her reign by Lord Herries, the com-
panion of her flight. His account bears, that " so soone as the
Queen saw the day lost, she was carried from the field by the
Lords Herries, Fleming, and Livistoune. Prettie George Douglas
and William the Fundlin escapt also with the Queen. She rode
all night, and did not halt until she came to the Sanquhir. From
thence she went to Terregles, the Lord Herries' hous, where she
rested some few dayes, and then, against her friends' advyce, she
resolved to goe to England and commit herselfe to the protection
of Queen Elizabeth; in hopes, by her assistance, to be repossess-
ed again in her kingdome. So she embarked at a creek near
Dundrennen, in Galloway, and carried the Lord Herries to attend
her with his counsel, and landed at Cockermouth in Cumberland.
Heer she stayed, and sent the Lord Herries to Londone in hopes
to be receaved with honor."*
	Mary arrived at Dundrennan in the evening, and spent her last
night in Scotland betieath the walls of the Monastery, then a mag-
nificent and extensive building, and of which Edward Maxwell, a
near relative of Lord Herries, was at the time Abbot. The situa-
tion of Dundrennan Abbey has much natural beauty, indepen-
dent of historical associations, to recommend it to the attention of
the traveller. The building is now greatly dilapidated; but

<FOOTNOTE>Historical Memoirs of tie Reign of Mary Queen of Scots, by Lord Herries. Edin-
burgh, 1836, p. 103.



