
320                          LANARKSHIRE.

	Parochial Registers.--The parochial register seems to be entire
from the year 1667.
	Antiquities.--The principal antiquity in the parish worthy of no-
tice is the ruins of Blantyre Priory. These are situated on a lofty
rock on the banks of the Clyde, exactly opposite the ruins of
Bothwell Castle. Both it and the castle are built of a fine-grain-
ed red-coloured sandstone rock, like that out of which Cadzow
Castle at Hamilton has been constructed. The priory is now
almost entirely fallen into decay, only one vault remaining entire,
a couple of gables, with a fire-place, and part of the outer walls.
It seems, however, to have been the occasional residence of Lord
Blantyre so late ar the time of Hamilton of Wishaw, who wrote
his "Description of the Sheriffdom of Lanark" about the begin-
ning of last century. Little account can now be given of the
origin and history of this establishment. It seems to have been
a cell of the Abbacy of Jedburgh,* (and founded by Alexander II.)
to which these monks generally retired in the time of war with the
English. It appears that Friar Walter of Blantyre was one of
the Scotch commissioners appointed to negotiate the ransom of
King David Bruce, taken prisoner in the battle of Durham 1346.
Frere William, Prior of Blantyre, is a subscriber to Ragman's Roll.
Walter Stewart, Commendator of this place, was Lord Privy Seal
in the year 1595, and shortly after treasurer, upon the Master of
Glammis dismission. This is the same who was afterwards creat-
ed Lord Blantyre.
	It is mentioned in the last Statistical Account of this parish, that
urns have been dug up at different times in several parts of the parish;
and that some of them were found in a large heap of stones. In the
centre of the heap, square stones were placed so as to form a kind of
chest, and the urns were placed within it. They contained a kind of
unctuous earthy substance, and some remains of bones were scat-
tered around them. Strong impressions of fire were also evident
on many of the stones. About three years ago, a stone coffin of
the above description, with an urn standing in one corner of it,
was turned up at Shott, near the parish church. A skull almost
entire was found in it, and nearly the whole of the teeth are in
good preservation. The urn was of baked earth, seemingly only
sun-dried, five and a-half inches high, and the same across the

<FOOTNOTE>Spottiswoode says it was a cell of Holyroodhouse. In Begimont's
Roll it was only taxed L. 6. 13s. 4d. The Archbishop of Glasgow latterly
presented the Prior to his living.

					3



