
			CRAILING.                       181

    the great though unostentatious duties of a parish minister, no
    notices are preserved. Yet the excellence of his principles, and
    activity of his character, leave no room for doubt that "they fill
    an ample page in that book of the Divine remembrance, from which
    no work of faith, no labour of love, is obliterated." One indirect,
    yet strong proof of the estimation in which he seems to have been
    held among his people is furnished in the fact, that Lord Cran-
    stoun, the proprietor of Crailing, who, from the vicinity of his
    mansion, must have had the best opportunities of knowing his pri-
    vate worth and public usefulness, used the most strenuous exer-
    tions to procure the remission of his sentence, and the continuance
    of his labours amongst them. The son of this nobleman, in pre-
    sence of the Lords of Secret Council at Glasgow, 27th July, en-
    tered into an obligation of 500 merks for Calderwood's leaving the
    country before Michaelmas, and thus obtained his liberty in the
    interval. Lord Cranstoun himself accompanied his pastor to Car-
    lisle, and there presented to the King a petition in his favour, that
    he might be confined within his own parish. But this was not
    granted; and, in like manner, other exertions which he made were
    frustrated, through the malignant interference of the bishops, par-
    ticularly through the underhand agency of Mr John Abernethie,
    "who," as Calderwood states it, "being minister at Jedburgb, a
    town in the south, and Bishop of Caithness, a diocese in the re-
    motest part of the north, thought he could not be at ease in Jed-
    burgh if Mr David was suffered to stay at home at Crailing, -a
    village distant but two miles from Jedburgh."
	Land-owners. -The Marquis of Lothian is sole proprietor of
    Nisbet side, * which comprises more than one-half of the parish.
    The property lies most beautifully, stretching from west to east on
    the north bank of the Tiviot. The family residence, which is
    called Monteviot, +is at the western extremity. The old house
    is an extremely plain building, and affords but small accommoda-
    tion; but one wing of anew and splendid mansion is already com-
    pleted. It is intended to consist of three parallelograms, the plan
    being of an irregular but picturesque character, in the Gothic style
    of the later period.

<FOOTNOTE>This assertion has to be qualified by stating, that, in consequence of the Tiviot
    having changed its course within the last fifty years, one or two fields of the Crailing
    property are now on its north side.
    This is the ancient Spittal, which was an hospital belonging to the abbey at
    Ancrum. Near the site of this mansion there were distinct traces of a burying-
    ground, and a considerable number of tomb-stones were lately dug out. None of the
    inscriptions, however, contained any thing remarkable.


