
                          PARISH OF DUMBARTON.

           PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                    THE REV. WILLIAM JAFFRAY, MINISTER.

                1.--4-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATVRAL HISTORY.
       Name.--THE word Dumbarton or Dunbarton is a corruption
   of the old name Dunbriton, a compound word, which signifies the
   fort or eastle of the Britons. When a town was built near the
   walls of the fort, the same name was given to it. It was after-
   wards applied to the parish, and lastly to the county.
      Extent, &c.--The parish is between 7 and 8 miles in length
   and from 3 to 4 in breadth. In the Old Statistical Account, the
   length is stated at from 2 to 3 miles. * This is quite correct as
   to the inhabited part; but the author has excluded a large moor
   belonging to the burgh of Dumbarton, which is quite uninhabited,
   except by a single family. Mr Chalmers has also fallens into arrow
   in regard to the extent; he states the length at 4, and the breadth
   at 2 1/4 miles. + It is bounded on the north, by the parishes of Bon-
   hill, Kilmaronock, and Killearn; on the north-east and east, by
   Killearn and West Kilpatrick; on the south, by the river Clydes;
   and on the west, by the river Leven, which separates it from the
   parish of Cardross. By a survey made in 1818; by Mr Wood, the
   parish was found to contain 6522 Scots, or 8155 English acres.
      Topographical Appearances.--The souths part of the parish as flat;
   but towards the north, about the distance of two miles from the Clyde;
   it rises rather abruptly, and from that, to the northern extremity, is
   nearly all moorland. There are a few small hills on the moor, but
   none of any great height. The most singular object in the parish is
   the Castle rock, which stands at the southern extremity, on a
   small peninsula formed by the junction of the River Leven with
   the Clyde, and is composed trap of various kinds. In wister,
   sometimes, when the tides are unusually high, it is entirely sur-
   rounded with water. The rock is nearly divided into two equal parts

<FOOTNOTE>Statistical Account, Vol. iv. page 21.     Caledonia, Vol, iii. page 914.

   DUMBARTON.                                            A


