
324                        ARGYLESHIRE.

counsel which he found there. His followers, as we learn from
Pede, would receive those things only which are contained in the
writings of the prophets evangelists, and apostles, diligently ob-
serving the works of piety and purity. Hence it has been said
that, " for several generations, with the error which at that time
prevailed in the Church of Rome, they seem not to have been in
the least tainted." Vide Smith's Life of Columba, p. 1 14. After
the example of the fatliers, Bede says they lived by the labour of
their hands, and, after the usage of the eastern churches, had
wives; and, so far were they from reckoning the connubial relation
inconsistent with their character, that it sdems to have been held
in honour.
 In each college of the Culdees, there were twelve brethren, and
one who was their provost or abbot, and they chose their abbot or
president from themselves.
 Among the many extensive privileges granted to the abbey of
Iona, the jurisdiction of its abbot was remarkable., Bede says,
that in his time Iona had a sort of supreme government over all
the other monasteries in Britain and Ireland, which had been pro-
pagated from that seminary. And though never more than a pres-
bytery had, notwithstanding a jurisdiction of the whole province,
to which even the Bishops themselves were subjected after an tin-
usual order, " ordine inusitato," as be expresses it.
 The northern pirates were accustomed to ravage the island,
and commit many cruelties on the defenceless monks. By them
the monastery was burned in 797; and in 801 they killed sixty-
eight of the ecclesiastics. Besides other calamities, it was rifled
in 985, and the abbot, together with fifteen of his learned asso-
ciates, put to death.Tighernac writes, that the monks of Iona
wereexpelled beyond Drumalbin, by Nectan, King of the Picts,
in 716 or 718.; and in 1069, the monastery was destroyed by fire,
Historians relate that Magnus Ntidipes, the Norwegian conque-
ror of the Hebrides, notwithstanding all the cruelties of his incur-
sions in the ydar 1098, moved by the reputed sanctity of the place,
spared Iona and its inhabitants from the devastations that, in all
other parts, attended his progress. Yet it was afterwards plun-
dared by a fleet of twelve sail of Norwegian pirates, which com-
mitted many depredations in the Hebrides.
 Between the years 1172, and 1180, William the Lion (its im-
portance then probably declining) took away a number of churches


