
     of Harris.

pasture, by meliorating the natural barrenness of the soil as
far as circumstances will permit.  Could these ends be other-
wise obtained, no corn crops ought to be at all raised here,
especially on any of the lands unmanageable by the plough;
for though no people labour harder, beginning this dreary
process so early as the month of November, and continuing
it occasionally, as the weather permits, as the cast of sea ware
may chance to come, and as the necessary attention to their
cattle and to the other branches of husbandry allows them,
till the month of June; yet the whole produce of the three
crops, barley, potatoes, and oats, may be fairly estimated at
little more than 2000 bolls, Linlithgow measure, even in the
best of years; and in bad years the crops fail so miserably as
to yield little more than the seed requisite for the next sow-
ing.  They are more frequently blasted by the severity of the
weather in their progress towards maturity, than shaken fully
ripe by autumnal storms; at the same time they are liable to
this last hazard also, should they have escaped the first.  The
autumnal equinox is almost invariably attended with a tem-
pest; but the farmers are generally so provident as to have
their corns cut down, even if they should not be thoroughly
ripe, before this comes on.  In reaving the barley, a large
proportion, that especially which grows on the strong lazy-
bed grounds, is plucked up by the roots, and tied up in
sheaves, of which 12 are generally placed close together in a
row to dry on the ground.  The stubble is afterwards cut off
with a sickle, and the barley built up in stacks.  This mode
of reaping may be challenged as barbarous.  It is, however,
indicated on the plea of necessity.  This kind of stubble is
the only sort of thatch the people can procure for their houses.
The oat straw grows but short, and affords the cattle but a
scanty subsistence of provender at the best.  There is no fern
in the parish; and the heather fit for thatch is at the distance


