
       256                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       has a fire-place in it upwards of 10 feet long by 5 feet high, with
       stone seats at each end.  Below is a cell, which was formerly used
       as a prison, with a strongly chained oaken door.  The castle is
       built of red sandstone, and presents a remarkable and truly baro-
       nial appearance.  It is surrounded with large parks and tall ances-
       tral trees among which are the oak, ash, sycamore or plane-tree,
       elm, lime, arbor vitae, laburnum, and chestnut.  One of the last
       kind is a splendid tree, measuring in circumference at the ground,
       24 feet, and breast high, 18 feet.  Its branches spread to the ex-
       tent of about 90 feet in diameter.
         The land-owners, none of whom are resident in the parish, are,
       in the order of their valuation, John Hay M'Kenzie, Esq. of Cro-
       martie; James Alexander Stewart M'Kenzie, Esq. of Seaforth, M.
       P.; Alexander M'Kenzie, Esq. of Hilton; Duncan Davidson, Esq.
       of Tulloch; The Proprietor of Strathconon; Sir George Stewart
       Mackenzie of Coul, Bart.; and Sir Colin M'Kenzie of Kilcoy,
       Bart.

       <TABLE=POPULATION>

                              III.-POPULATION.

         The population of this parish in 1755 was 1483
                                          1794     1730
                                          1831     2232

         The last census and those taken formerly included the inhabi-
       tants of the districts which are now connected, 'quoad sacra, with
       the parishes of Carnoch and Kinlochluichart.  Exclusive of these,
       the population at present is upwards of 2300.  The increase has
       been, in a great measure, occasioned by the villages of Maryburgh
       and Keithtown, which are of recent formation, and by the heights
       being resorted to from remote districts lately converted into pas-
       turage.
           The number of families in the parish is 492.
           The number below 15 years of age who can read or are learning to read,
                216 males, 162 females.
           The number below 15 years of age w4o can write or are learning to write,
                74 males, 31 females.
           The number above 15 years of age who cannot read either Gaelic or
               English, 538.
         Illegitimate births in the course of the last three years, 6.
         The greatest part of the parish is occupied by large farmers, who
       have introduced all the modern improvements in agriculture.  The
       rest of the people consist of small tenants, crofters, a few mecha-
       nics, and the extremely poor.  All belong to the Established
       Church, and seem to be cordially attached to it.  The Gaelic is
       generally spoken, and is still by fatr the most prevalent language.


