				ANWOTH.      		  377

who was executed at Edinburgb in 1697, for the murder of Wil-
liam Gordon, an ample account, including his " Last Speech,"
has been given in this work, under "General observations on the
County of Wigton," (pp. 225-7,) contributed by the present writer.
	Colonel William Maxwell, son of the Rev. Mr Maxwells mi-
nister of Minnigaff, and the founder of the Maxwells of Cardo-
ness, was a brave officer. He had the military command of Glas-
gow during the Rebellion of 1715, and for his gallant services was
presented with a piece of plate by the cities of Edinburgh and
Glasgow, ornamented with the arms of both places. He mar-
ried Miss Stewart of Castle-Stewart, niece to William Gordon,
designed of Cardoness, murdered by Sir Godfrey M'Culloch.
	The late Dr Maxwell Garthshore, of London, has a claim to
be mentioned in any account of this parish. His father, (who
was a son of Garthshore of Garthshore, a very ancient family,)
was minister of Anwoth from 1714 to 1721, when be was translat-
ed to Kirkcudbright. Dr Garthshore died in London in 1812, at
the age of eighty-two, having led an eminent and successful life as
a physician. He was the author of various papers on professional
subjects, published either in medical journals, or in the Transac-
tions of the Royal Society of London. He married Miss M'Guf-
fog, heiress of Rusco, in this parish. His only child, a son, pre-
deceased him. The life of Dr Garthshore affords a striking proof
of the eminence, wealth, and dignity, to which talents, when pro-
perly directed, good principles, and exemplary conduct, can ele-
vate their possessor. (Murray's Literary History of Galloway,
1st edition, 1822, pp. 1235-8; and Ewart's Biographical Sketches,
London, 1830, pp. 180-232.)
	Martyr.--John Bell of Whiteside, in the parish, "was the
only son," says Wodrow, (History, vol. iv. p. 241,) "of a gentle-
woman, heiress of Whiteside, who, after his father's death, was
married to the Viscount of Kenmure." He had been forfeited
in 1680, in consequence of his having been engaged at the battle
of Bothwell Bridge. In 1685, Bell, with Halliday of Mayfield,
Lennox of Irelandton, and two others, were surprised by Grier-
son of Lag, on Kirkconnell Muir, parish of Tongland, and bar-
barously shot on the spot, "without so much as ellowing them
to pray, though earnestly desired." (1b. 242.)  Bell was buried
in the churchyard of Anwoth.*

<FOOTNOTE>The monument erected to his memory, and still carefully preserved, bears the
following inscription;


