
                         EASTWOOD.                      35

to the extent of 100 feet, from their positions. The direction of the
slips is generally from dip to rise,-although there is very dis-
tinct instance  in, be parish- of derangements - both across and in the
lane of the strata, whereby  a lime, is thrown, up and down and
appears and disappears in a variety of places for the of space of near-
ly two miles along the ordinary line of dip and rise, and for about
half a-mile in the opposite direction, or on the ordinary level of the
metals. The rock here alluded to is known by the name of Arden
lime.  It appears on the surface At Davieland, near the eastern ex-
tremity the parish, and also the western extremity at Darn-
ley Bridge, and Darnley Bleachfield, and at several intermediate
places.
   The rocks of this parish are sandstone and limestone, with nu-
merous bands of ironstone. The first and last are found every-
where, by sinking pits; and the sandstone makes its appearance on
on the surface in many places.
   in the barony of Eastwood, properly so called, there is a quarry
of a very peculiar description.  The rock is 50 feet deep, and lies
in horizontal strata, the beds varying in thickness from 2 inches to
2 feet. The general dip or inclination is to the south-east. There
is between each bed a thin layer of what resembles fire clay; and the
face of the rock has very much the appearance of a wall built by
the hand of man. The stone is of excellent quality, is easily
wrought, and can be cut to any size of length or breath that may
be required.  It is used for all parts of house-work, but is peculiar-
ly adapted for pavement, stair steps, and hearths, and can be wrought
into cisterns of any dimensions for holding bleaching liquors, &c.
It has been discovered only within these-four or five years, and is               
considered by judges to be a great natural curiosity, and one of the
finest lying fields of rock in the country. There is another valu-
able quarry about a quarter of a mile from the former.  It is, what
is technically termed, a liver rock, and the depth of it is 24 feet.
It is of the finest quality, and is used for every purpose of masonry
in house-building of the first description in Glasgow and the neigh-
bourhood.  It is much admired by sculptors, as well adapted for
making fancy figures of any kind of size.  There is a third quarry
in the neighbourhood of this, in the farm of Gilnock, which is of
the same quality with the latter, and for which there has been long
a great demand. The number of quarriers employed in the first
and second of these is thirty, with twenty labourers.  They work ten


