
     Statistical Account

scription.  It consists of 26 inhabited houses, and contains
116 souls.  Woodside contains 66 persons, Cleughbrae 35,
and Banks 29; the rest of the parish having only 2 or 3
houses standing together, or a tingle farm-houses and the
offices belonging to it.  There are the remains of five old
stone square buildings in this parish, all of which proba-
bly, in former times, were used both as places of residence
and defence against the depredations of the English.  Three
of them, though now ruinous, had part of three stories stand-
ing within these 50 years.  One, at a place called Buckler-
hole, (or, as some would have it, Bucklerhold), had lately two
stories, and what they called a watch-house.  Great part of
the walls are now taken down.  Another at Raffles was pretty
entire 12 years ago.  And the old part of the manse, in the
memory of those with whom the present incumbent has con-
versed, was a high tower, having a pigeon-house at top.  Its
walls are very thick*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The most considerable of these old buildings is that at
Mouswald Mains, or, as it is sometimes called, the Place.  It
has been the largest, and is very strongly built.  It was the seat
of a Sir Simon Carruthers, the Laird of Mouswald, who was
what the old people called a belted knight.  His only daughter,
it is said, married into the Queensberry family, by which means
they came into possession of the estate.  In the aile of the
church there were formerly two statues as big as the life; the
one is said to be an effigy of Sir Simon, and the other of his
Lady.  The latter was of beautiful white free stone, and has
been quite carried off.  That representing Sir Simon now lies
on the outside of the aile; his head lying on a pillow his feet
on a lion; his hands elevated in a supplicating posture. There
is no inscription.  There are also several camps in the parish,
probably British; one at Burronhill, with a strong double fosse
or ditch.  In digging the foundation for a new schoolhouse
there three years ago, several human bones were found.  It is
a fine situation.  Another nigh the top of a little hill, called
Panteth-hill, which has an extensive and commanding prospect.


