
     of Muthil.

in which, it was generally believed, treasures, at well as Ro-
man antiquities, might be found.  In order to ascertain this
fact, a man, who had been condemned by the baron court of
a neighbouring lord, upon obtaining a pardon, agreed to be
let down by a rope into this hole. He at first brought up
with him, from a great depth, Roman spears, helmets, frag-
ments of bridles, and several other articles:  But upon being
let down a second time, was killed foul air.  No attempts
have been made since that time.  The articles, above mention-
ed, lay at the house of Ardoch for many years, but were all
carried off, by some of the soldiers in the Duke of Argyll's
army, in 1715, after the battle of Sheriffmuir, and could ne-
ver afterwards be recovered.  The mouth of the hole was
covered up with a millstone, by an old gentleman, who lived
at the house of Ardoch, while the family were in Russia, about
the year 1720, to prevent hares from running into it, when
pursued by his dogs; and as earth, to a considerable depth,
was laid over the millstone, the place cannot now be found.
although diligent search has been made for it.
   When the Ardoch Family returned to the country, the
camp was used as pasture ground, for cattle; and, by Sir Wil-
liam Stirling, the present proprietor, has been inclosed with a
high stone wall, that it may never again suffer by a plough-
share.  He has also prohibited the tenants from plowing up,
or otherwise demolishing, any part of the remaining lines or
ramparts round the two larger camps.  He has now an urn,
perfectly entire, which was dug up near the west side of the
praetorium, or general's quarters, containing ashes, and some
small pieces of a human skull*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A number of stone coffins, with skeletons in them, were not long ago found,
in forming a road by the side of the camp to the house of Ardoch.  In a cairn,
about a mile to the westward, no less than 182 feet in length, 30 feet in a
sloping height, and 45 feet in breadth at the base there was found a stone cof-


