
         	418			RENFREWSHIRE.

            men of the age in which they lived. Members of both these fa-
            milies have represented the county of Renfrew in Parliament. Sir
            John Shaw sat in that capacity in the first British Parliament, in
            1708-9-10. He was returned again for the same county in 1727,
            and continued in the representation till 1734. Mr (afterwards
            Sir John) Shaw Stewart was chosen member for Renfrewshire in
            1780, and again in 1786 and 1790; and the late Sir Michael
            Shaw Stewart, father of the present Sir Michael, was commis-
            sioner for that county in several, successive Parliaments.
              James Watt.-Other persons might be mentioned, whose literary
            fame and scientific acquirements shed no small degree of lustre on
            the town and parish of which we write.  But it is no disparagement to
            them, or to the men of high birth and ancient pedigree whose charac-
            ter and history we have briefly recorded, to affirm, that Greenock has
            had the transcendant honour of giving birth to a man whose fame
            flar exceeds that.of all the warriors and statesmen whom Scotland
            has ever produced.  That man is the late celebrated and amiable
            James Watt, the improver of the steam-engine.  He was the son
            of James Watt, wright, ship-builder, and builder, in Greenock,
            and was born in that town on the 19th January 1736, in a house
            which, though somewhat altered, still continues to stand. He
            spent the earlier years of his life in Greenock, and received the
            rudiments of his education there.  Discovering a stroug inclina-
            tion to the study of mechanics, he went to London in his eight-
            month year, and remained a year under the tuition of a maker of
            mathematical instruments.  Soon after his return from London, he
            resolved to establish himself in that profession in Glasgow, and
            after encountering some difficulties in the accomplishment of his
            object, the professors gave him apartments within the college as
            mathematical instrument maker to the university. He thus be-
            came acquainted with Dr Black, and Mr (afterwards Professor)
            John Robison, who held him in the highest esteem, and had fre-
            quent conversations with him on scientific subjects. There he
            continued till the year 1768, when he took up his residence in the
            town, and soon after married his cousin, Miss Miller. In the year
            1761, be commenced that series of experiments which terminat-
            ed in 1765 in what may be termed his great discovery, and in
            the improvements which that discovery suggested, namely, the
            condensing of steam in a separate vessel exhausted of air, and
            kept cool by cold water injection, and the moving of the piston by
            steam instead of atmospheric pressure. While engaged in mak-


