

                        PARISH OF HAWICK.

     PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TFVIOTDALE.

               THE REV. J. A. WALLACE, MINISTER.



        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY
   Name.-IN the oldest documents to which we have had access
the orthography of Hawick is but slightly different from what it is
at the present time, and on that account there is less room for di-
versity of opinion as to the origin of the name.  It is remarked by
Chalmers in his Caledonia, that the town is probably as ancient as
the Saxon settlers, whose chief built the mansion of his manor on
the curve of the Slitridge; and proceeding upon this fact, he con-
siders the name to be purely Saxon, -Haw, as he states, on the au-
thority of Somner, signifying in the Anglo-Saxon, mansis, mansus.
a mansion-house, and wic, denoting, among other significations, the
curving reach of a river where hamlets were formerly built.    An
opinion somewhat similar to this is expressed by the writer of the
former Statistical Account, for he observes that Hawick may be
derived either from the Celtic, ha, a mansion, and wic, the crook
or conflux of rivers; or from the Saxon, haf, the same with our
halved, and wich, a common termination for a village supposed to
be formed from the Latin, vicus ; to either of which derivations its
situation agrees, as the river Teviot washes the side of it towards
the north, and the smaller river Slitridge divides it nearly into two
equal parts.  It may also be mentioned, in addition to these con-
jectures, that there are places in the vicinity of the town, known
by the names of the Common Haugh, the Little Haugh, and the
Haugh-head; and as the town is built- partly upon one of these
haughs, it is suggested, that the name may be compounded of the
Scotch, haugh, synonymous with the Gaelic, augh, and derived, as
is supposed, from the old Teutonic auwe, signifying a piece of low-
lying flat ground, and wijch, which, in the same dialect, denotes
fluminis sinus, the curving beach of a river.  This last etymology,
while no less appropriate than the others to the locality of the
town, is rendered still, more plausible by a reference to the ancient
war-cry of the inhabitants, which consisted of the words,"Tiribus


