
     Statistical Account

in winter, and perhaps the heats are not greater in summer,
from the well known effects of sea breezes, to cool the air in
the one season, and to warm it in the other.  Owing perhaps
to this cause, consumptions are less common than in other
places of Scotland.  Febrile diseases are more frequent than in
the higher districts.  Agues formerly prevailed very much.
There has not, however, been one instance of this disorder for
9 or 10 years past*.  Rheumatism seems now to be the most

<FOOTNOTE>

*Similar observations have been made in other statistical histories, and va-
rious causes assigned.  It is surely worth while to investigate the true cause of
facts so remarkable.  The following theory is submitted with dissidence to the
public, if admissible in a publication which is intended chiefly for a record of
facts.
   Mars Miasma is assigned as the remote cause of intermittent fevers; and
when such diseases become less prevalent, it is very natural to suppose, that the
draining of marshes or mosses must be the occasion of it.  But in this district
no masses or marshes have been drained, of any consequence, for many years
past; nor has any other remarkable alteration happened to affect the salubrity
of the air, except what may be supposed to arise from the superior cultivation
of the ground.  When land is deepened and pulverised, in consequence of im-
provements, by lime, shells, and marl, it absorbs the rains more quickly and
plentifully.  Hence less moisture will arise in evaporation; less water also will
run along the surface, and stagnate in the hollows, which are here to be found
in almost every field.  The water thus collected sooner acquire a noxious qua-
lity, than that which is in mosses, which are commonly see by subterraneous
springs and running rivulets.  Increased vegetation will diminish evaporation;
for water is absorbed in considerable quantities by the plants themselves; and
in proportion to their luxuriance, they diminish the reflection of the sun's rays,
and keep the air more cool and temperate during the heats of summer and au-
tumn.  Moreover, it has been proved by LAVOISIER and others, that water
contains pure air and inflammable air: and also, that inflammable and bad airs
are in a great measure the food of plants.  Thus, by increasing vegetation, that
inflammable air, which is hurtful to animals, is absorbed in greater quantities.
Water also is decompounded by them; the noxious parts it contains are returned;
and a vast quantity of vital air is produced. Hence we may conclude, that
cultivation of the ground will in various ways contribute to remove the cause of


