
252				DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	The Marquis of Queensberry sells annually about L.600 worth
of oak bark, and wood of different kinds.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land in Cummertrees is
under L.1 Sterling per acre. The valued rental of the parish is
3715 merks; the real rental nearly L.8000. The average rate
of grazing a cow or full-grown ox is L.3,1Os. per head; for full-
grown sheep, 5s. per head.
	 Rate of Waqes.--Men as farm-labourers during the summer
months have 2s. and Is. 6d. a-day; for the winter months they
have 1s. 6d. and 1s. per day. Females for out-door husbandry
have 1s. in summer, and 10d. per day in winter. Ploughmen en-
gaged by the year bave a free house, and in money and provisions
to the amount of L.20 Sterling per annum; those who get their
board and lodging in the farmer's houses receive about L.12 per
annum. Dairy maids about L.6 per annum. Housekeepers about
L.8 per annum.  Country artisans bave 2s.6d. or 3s.during sum-
mer, and 1s. 6d. or 2s. per day during winter.
	Breeds of Cattle.--The few sheep that are bred in the parish
are generally a cross between the Cheviot and South-downs. The
farmers in general consider it more advantageous to buy sheep for
eating their turnip, than to rear them.  Many of them let their
turnips to graziers to be eaten by sheep upon the ground by the
week at so much per head. When turnips are scarce, they  let
high, as 5d. or 6d. per sheep; and when plentiful, as low as 21d.
and 3d. per sheep.
	Husbandry.--The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
Many of the farm-houses, and most of the enclosures in the parish,
are in good condition. So great are the improvements in Cummer-
trees within the last thirty years, that the appearance of the parish
is entirely changed. Many hundred acres of land, which thirty years
ago were lying open and waste, are now well enclosed with neat-
ly kept hedge-rows, and either covered with thriving plantations,
or regularly cultivated upon the most approved system of hus-
bandry.
	Quarries and Fisheries.--There are two freestone quarries `nd
one of limestone in the parish. The only fishery is stake-net fish-
ary. rented at about L.400 per annum. The poor people have li-
berty to take white fish from 25th September to 10th March.
	Produce.--The gross amount of raw produce raised in Cum-
mentrees, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:
                             -3


