
                          ARBUTHNOTT.                        155

of the Bervie, and nearly opposite the church of Arbuthnott, small
vehnr of manganese occur in a deep ravine called "The Hares'
Den."
	Remains of Animals.--In the deepest part of a small peat-bog
called the Hogs' Hole, lying between the estate of Kair and the farm
of Old-cake, the skeletons of two red deer were found a few years
ago, in cutting a deep ditch through it. The horns are of extra-
ordinary size, and are now in the vestibule of Arbuthnott House.
The extreme breadth between the horns of the one is 4 feet; the
length of born 3 feet 11 inches. The left horn has 8 antlers, the
longest of which measures 18 inches; and the right 7 antlers, the
longest of which measures 16 inches. The extreme breadth be-
tween the horns of the other is 3 feet 11 in.; the length of horn
3 feet 6 inches. There are 7 antlers on each horn, the longest of
which measures 15 inches.
	Botany.--Keeping in view that the parish contains no elevation
much above 600 feet, and does not reach the sea, great variety
in the botanical features of the parish cannot be expected. Epi-
lobium angustifolium, Agrimonia eupatoria, the tiny meadow pink
(Dianthus deltoides), Saxifraga granulate, Geranium lucidum,
sylvaticum, pretense, and pyrenaicum (the last introduced from
Salisbury crags), ornament the bank of our little river. A few
plants of the elegant Vici sylvatica, and melancholy thistle de-
scend from the more upland distribtr. The hand of agriculture
has almost extirpated the plants of the Marshes Trollius Europaus
(lucken gowan,) bur-marygold, and Anagallis tenella. In the
warmest exposures the beautiful scarlet pimpernel (Anagallis ar-
vensis,) and Valeriana locusta, are not uncommon. In the moist,
deep, cool shades of our wooded dells are found the musky Adoza
moschatellina, Festuca gigantea, and Paris quadrifolia, a singular
plant, remarkable as thd only representative on the old continent
of an American genus (Trillium) of considerable beauty. Juncus
glaucus, supposed bv Dr Hooker to be confined to the west of
Scotland, abounds in several of the vales, with a few plants of
common adder's tongue (Ophioglossum vugatum.) Even Hor-
deum murinum, supposed never to venture across the Forth, is
found on the coast side, only two miles from the parish of Arbuth-
nott. When Arbutus uva-ursi is added as a native of the drier
mooors, then more striking features of our little Flora will be com-
pleted. A grass, however, here called sleepies (Bromus secalinus),
requires to be particularly noticed; as it is one of the very few of


                 -

