
                           INVERARY.		5

	bead, with the, phlegmasiae in general, are the most usual com-
	plaints among the inhabitants of this parish.
	Hydrography. - Lochfyne, which forms the south and east
	boundary of this parish for several miles, constitutes its principal
	feature in a hydrographical point of view. It is one of those nu-
	merous armsof the sea by which this county is so peculiarly in-
	tersected, and by which it enjoys such remarkable maritime ad-
	vantages. Its waters receive those of innumerable mountain
	streams, by which they are rendered brackish; and its colour
	varies from bright sea-green to black. Its luminousness is
	small; and, surrounded by mountains, it is protected in a great
	measure from the storms whhch agitate the ocean. The tide rises
	to the height of 16 feet on ordinary occasions, but subject, of
	course, to variations on account of the weather. That portion of
	it which bounds this parish is generally free of rocks and sand-
	banks, with one exemption, Which occurs opposite the western end
	of the burgh of Inverary; and the force of the tides is at no time
	great. The breadth of the loch varies from 2 to 3 1/2 miles; and the
	depth corresponds in some measure to the character of the coast,
	being, at the head of the loch, about 14 fathoms; and at Dun-
	deraw, 18 do.; near Stronshira, 40 do. ; between St Catherine's
	and Inverary, 60 do.; at Inverary pier, 60 do. ; opposite Cromalt
	and Dalchenna, 73 do. ; opposite Cromalt and Dalchenna, near
	the shore, 6 do.; between Strachur and Creggans, 84 do.; from
	Creggans to Kenmore, 32 do.; from Creggans to Kenmore, near
	the shore, 19 do.; opposite Kenmore, 70 do.; opposite Penny-
	more, 52 do.; opposite Furnace, 44 do.
             The general character of the shore is smooth; but towards the
	southern extremity of; the parish, the rocks rise from the water's
	edge to a considerable height, and give the coast a bold and rug-
	ged appearance.  Bays, varying in size and character, occur at
	short distances, forming such an undulated shore as greatly en-
	hances the beauty of the scenery.
	     The principal lake in the parish is the Doulocb or black lake,
	so named from its deep and dArk-coloured waters. It is situated
	to the N. E. of the burgh in Glensbira, about one-fourth part of
	a mile from Lochfyne, and elevated only a few feet above it.
	Though this lake is so near the sea there is no appearance from
	which it can be inferred that the latter recently extended into the
	valley, andceded, leaving the former in possession of its bed. The



