
780                         FIFESHIRE.

five years ago, it underwent a thorough repair, and was much
enlarged, and made altogether commodious and comfortable.
The glebe extends to four acres. Its annual value may be L.12.
By a recent decision of the Court of Teinds, the stipend was
fixed at 17 chalders, half meal and half barley, with L.10 for
communion elements. There is another place of worship in
Strathmiglo, connected with the Reformed Presbyterian Church,
stated to have a congregation of about 200 from this and other
parishes. The number of cnmmunicants may be 140, of whom
90 belong to Strathmiglo. At Edenshead, there is another place
of worship, belonging to the United Associate Synod, the con-
gregation of which has been computed at 300, of whom 200 may
be communicants. Divine service is well attended at all these
places of worship. Of the entire parishioners, upwards of 1400
may be in connection with the Established Church, and the ave-
rage number of communicants is 430. A Tract Society is in
operation, which distributes monthly a religious tract gratuitously
to every family in the parish. It is supported by occasional col-
lections and contributions.
   Education.-There are five seminaries, viz. the parochial school,
a female school, built by Mr Skene of Pitlour, who allows a small
salary to the teacher, and three subscription schools. These are
all conveniently situated. The parochial school was greatly en-
larged by the heritors a few years ago, and may comfortably con-
tain 150 pupils. A convenient play-ground was recently pur-
chased by subscription. The teacher's dwelling is also commo-
dious. He has the maximum salary.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor on the re-
gular roll is 18 at present, who receive altogether L.1, 12s. per
week, the lowest allowance being 1s. and the highest 4s. There
are also two lunatics maintained in Perth Asylum, `nd one blind
person partly supported in the Asylum for the Blind. The ex-
pense of the three amounts to about L.50 per annum. For the
relief of the poor, upwards of L.20 is annually obtained from the
stated weekly offerings at the church doors. There is land of
the yearly value of L.19 devoted to the same object, and a sum
of money yielding L.10 of interest. The parochial minister has
also the management of a small property worth L.9 annually, for
behoof of indigent persons in the parish. The balance is made
up by occasional voluntary assessments among the heritors. It
may be proper to state that a Friendly Society exists here. It was


