
302                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

quite secure. The average number of debtors annually confined,
many of them for trifling sums, is 10. The number of other pri-
soners is considerable, owing to the situation of the town upon the
great thoroughfare to the east and south.*
   The system of police, although much yet remains to be done, has
recently undergone very great improvement under the direction of the
active, intelligent, and indefatigable superintendent, Mr List; and a
set of records which he has commenced, connected with the prison,
will in time furnish, on a limited scale, a valuable source of infor-
mation on the statistics of crime. These records consist of four sepa-
rate volumes for the different descriptions of prisoners. Opposite the
name of each prisoner, are inserted in various columns, their resi-
dence, occupation, date of committal, whether previously commit-
ted, the offence, whether drunk or sober when committed, state of
education as regards reading and writing, age, description minute-
ly marked, and general character.
   In the cleaning department, much remains to be accomplished,
in order to take away from us the too well merited reproach of
Scotch nastiness. Vast numbers of slaughtered sheep hung up
entire in ghastly rows continue to offend the eye along all the tho-
roughfares: the filthy puddle generative of disease too frequently
stagnates in the densely populated closes, and the detestable ha-
bits in which the children of the common orders are reared cannot
be too strongly reprobated.
   Fairs.-There is only one fair held throughout the year, which
lasts for two days, and which might be discontinued, no traffic be-
ing carried on at it; and not only the two fair days, but the rest of
the week being spent in idleness by many of the working-classes,
a strong temptation is offered to drunkenness. On the second fair
day, there are races on the links, and other popular amusements.
Within the last fifty years, this fair was a scene of general resort,
and most extensive sales were transacted in cattle, linen, and wool-
len goods, and the various articles of household use, but all this is
changed; the transactions of business have given place to holiday
amusements.
   Inns and Ale-houses.-The "Musselburgh Arms," an old-

<FOOTNOTE>There is extant a list of all the rebel prisoners received into custody at the jail
here, between the 19th February 1746, and the 13th September of the same year,
in which are recorded the time of their capture, the place where taken, the expense
of their subsistence, and other particulars. They weem not to have been treated with
any ceremony, as the following indorsement on this document by the town treasurer
seems to hint, "for straw to ye prisoners, L. 5, 3s."


