
194			LANARKSHIRE.

military, he having expresed himself favourable to the repeal of
the penal statutes.
	In Glasgow, the measure was viewed with so much alarm, that
eighty-five societies were formed to oppose it; and Mr John Pa-
terson, a spirit-merchant, was appointed to keep up a corre-
spondence with Lord George Gordon, at that time the head of the
Protestant association in London. During the discussion in Par-
liament, a mob collected on Sunday the 5th Februry 1780 dur-
ing the time of divine service, and would have destroyed the dwel-
ling-house of a Catholic where mass was being celebrated, had not
Provost French and the other magistrates arrived in time to pre-
vent it. On the Thursday following, being a day appointed for a
national fast, a mob collected in King Street, and destroyed the
shop of Mr Bagnall, a potter. Having completed their work of de-
vastation, they went to Tureen Street, and destroyed his manufac-
tory, for no other reason but that he was a Roman Catholic.
	The increase of Roman Catholics in Glasgow may be dated from
1791. At that time the spirit for emigration from the North High-
lands to America was such as to drain the county of many of its
best labourers. The sevices of these hardy Northlanders being
required at home, Messrs George M'Intosh, David Dale, Robert
Dalglish, and other extensive manufactures, invited them to this
city, and to such as were Roman Catholics, security was promised in
the exercise if their religion. The Tennis Court, in Mitchell Street,
was fitted up as a temporary chapel, and the Reverend Alexander
M'Donald, now Bishop of Upper Canada, was appointed priest in
1792, Mr M'Donald was succeeded by the Reverend John Farquhar-
son in 1795. Soon after that time the number of Roman Catholics
increased so much, that, in 1797, they built a small chapel in the
Gallowgate, near the Reverend Andrwe Scott. From this period the num-
ber of Roman Catholics incresed so rapidly, that in 1815, the foun-
dation stone of a new chapel was laid in Clyde Street, This spa-
cious edifice, in which there is a magnificent organ, was opened
with great solemnity on the Sunday before Christmas 1816; after
which the chapel in the Gallowgate was appropriated to another
purpose. The number of Roman Catholics continuing to increase,
the Lancasterian school-house in Gorbals was converted into a Ro-
man Catholic chapel in 1828. In 1831, there were 26,965 Ro-
man Catholic in this city, and their number has increased con-
siderably since.            3


