
192                        FIFESHIRE.


and the aged, and the infirm amongst them. This is principally to
be assigned to the regularity of the attendance of the heritors' fa-
milies, and of others, since a comfortable place of worship has been
provided. The state of complete disrepair in which the old church
remained for upwards of thirty years had the effect of alienating
many individuals from the Establishment, who could easily obtain
comfortable accommodation in the numerous dissenting chapels
in the neighbourhood. And thus many who during life had week-
ly contributed toward the support of a dissenting place of worship,
and towards the maintenance of its poor, have themselves ultimate-
ly become applicants for parochial relief. This has had the effect
of greatly increasing the demand upon the heritors; and had they
not come forward and assessed themselves, and had not many cases
of indigence been supplied by the private benevolence of the pro-
prietor of the Fordel coal-works, this parish might long ere now
have been subject to all the numerous evils which never fail to
attend that self-increasing evil, a legal assessment, and from
which, we trust, it is now in the way of farther and farther re-
ceding. And we are persuaded that in many country parishes
this evil might have been prevented, had the non-resident heritors
voluntarily contributed to the parish funds such a sum as might
have been reasonably expected from them, had they been weekly in
their places in the parish church. Had this much to be depre-
cated system ever been introduced into this parish, its principal
cause must have been traced to the long period during which no
suitable accommodation was provided for the people in their pa-
rish church. Much evil results from want of due attention to the
comfort of the parishioners in this respect. It not only increas-
es the demand upon heritors to supply their diminished poors'funds,
and may thus lead to the introduction of legal assessments, but it
goes directly to foster those loose principles, and to induce those
habits of idleness and dissipation which give rise to pauperism it-
self. For an excuse is hereby furnished to the parishioners for
withdrawing themselves from the salutary influence of the weekly
lessons and ministrations of the gospel, which every enlightened
mind will acknowledge are the most efficient of all means for pro-

<FOOTNOTE>This statement is fully corroborated by an experiment made in one of the pa-
rishes in East Lothian, where, by pursuing a plan somewhat similar to that whiah we
have suggested, legal assessments were not only prevented, but actually abolished af-
ter they had obtained a long and firm footing in the parish.--See an interesting
work on this subject, entitled "Considerations addressed to the Heritors and Kirk-
sessions of Scotland," by the late Rev. W. Stark, Dirleton.


