
              ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                        329

   The district is entirely destitute of natural wood,-some scraggy
hazel and stunted birch bushes to be met with in a few localities,
not deserving the name. It is evident from the remains of trees
found in the peat mosses, that the country was not always equally
bare; but as these remains are neither very numerous nor of a
large size, it may be concluded that it has not been well-wooded for
many ages back. Until about sixty years ago, there seem to have
been no attempts made by art to remedy the deficiency of nature.
But about that time, General Macleod of Macleod commenced plant-
ing around his castle of Dunvegan; and his example has been fol-
]owed by his two successors, so that now there is an extensive and
thriving plantation, where formerly all was bleak and bare. The
late Mr Macdonald of Lynedale, about fifty years ago, likewise
planted to some extent around his own dwelling, where now trees of
some size are to be seen. Mr Macleod of Orbost, and Mr Cumming
of Grieshernish have followed the example set to them.  Their
houses will soon be completely sheltered, as they are already or-
namented by wood of their own rearing.  But, with these excep-
tions, nothing has been done to redeem the district from its na-
turally naked character.
   The larch is decidedly the most congenial tree to the soil and
climate of this place; but a great variety of other trees, such as
oak, ash, plane, beech, alder, and birch, are found to thrive pretty
well, notwithstanding the violence of the sea-blast to which they
are constantly exposed. Scotch fir has not succeeded well, though
tried more than once.

                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Tradition speaks of some sanguinary battles fought between
the Macleods and the Clann Raonnuill or Macdonalds of Uist,
who made repeated attempts either to possess themselves of the
country, or at least to plunder and ravage it. The fiercest and
bloodiest of these battles was fought at a place called Ardmore,
in the district of Vaternish, on the beach below the old church
of Trumpan. Many of the Macleods were assembled in this
church, when the enemy came suddenly upon them, surrounded
the building, set fire to it, and destroyed all the worshippers; one
woman alone excepted, who made her escape during the confu-
sion of the fray.  This barbarous and sacrilegious work, however,
did not pass unrevenged. The inhabitants of other parts of the
country had observed the boats of their foe. The beacon lights
and Crois Tara (fiery-cross) soon brought together men who were
   INVERNESS.


