
     Statistical Account

Kirkcudbright, Gatehouse of Fleet, etc. stored with provisions
and all sorts of liquors, for the accommodation and refresh-
ment of those whose business calls them to the fair; and, con-
sidering the vast concourse of people upon that occasion, they
generally dispose of their articles to advantage.  The fair
lasts only one day.  At this place too, a weekly market for
black cattle is held upon Monday, beginning in October, and
ending in December, every year.

   Trade and Manufactures.-The other village, formerly
called Carlinwark, now erected into a free and independent
burgh of barony, and denominated Castle-Douglas, after the
superior, is situated at the north corner of the Carlinwark
Loch.  Within the limits of this burgh, there are, at present,
between 600 and 700 inhabitants, where, 26 years ago, there
were not 20.  At this town a banking branch is now estab-
lished; and, two companies are engaged in the manufacture
of cotton:  one of these companies, (in which the superior,
William Douglas Esq. of Castle-Douglas, a gentleman of
great property, and principal heritor of the parish, is concern-
ed,) proceeds upon a pretty large scale.  Here, likewise, a
soap-work, brewery, tannery, and woollen manufactory, are
in contemplation.  One great hindrance, however, to the
establishment and carrying on of extensive manufactures in this
place, with success, and to advantage, is the scarcity of fuel.
Should a plan be adopted whereby to remedy that inconveni-
ence, it would tend much to the benefit of Kelton, and this
country in general.  Were the tax taken off the importation
of coals from England, that salutary end would, perhaps, in
a great measure, be attained.  In regard to population, the
town of Castle-Douglas, is increasing with rapidity, and needs
only manufactures to render it considerable*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a post office at Castle-Douglas, where mails are dispatched and re-
ceived every day, to and from all the principal post-offices in Great Britain and Ire-


