
	162                 CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

	those of Mirelandorn, Winless, and Bilbster, amounting to 369
	souls, while about seven miles from the church of Wick, are
	within two miles of that of Wattin.  This mal-arrangement ought
	to be remedied.
	   Allowing eighteen inches to a sitting, the church will contain
	1981 sitters.  It is seated, however, to contain only 1835.  All
	the seats are said to be free.  The church is well attended.
	   Though much too large for the comfort either of the minister
	or of the congregation, the church of Wick does not afford nearly
	sufficient accommodation for the population of the parish.  This
	deficiency is in part supplied by the mission of Bruan, and the
	quoad sacra parish of Keiss.
	   Mission of Bruan.-At first, this mission comprehended Ber-
	ridale and Bruan, at which places divine worship was celebrated
	alternately.  Since a parliamentary church was erected at the for-
	mer place in 1826, the labours of the missionary have been con-
	fined to Bruan.
	   The mission-house is situated in the parish of Wick, but just
	within the boundary which divides it from the parish of Latheron.
	The principal part of it was built in 1798, to which an aisle was
	subsequently added.  It is a very plain thatched building, capable
	of accommodating 585 sitters.  The manse, on which is a debt
	of L. 50, and glebe of four acres, are within the parish of Latheron.
	The ground was generously given by the family of Ulbster.  The
	missionary district comprehends the extremity of the parish of
	Latheron in the southern extremity of the parish of Wick.  In
	1840, the population of the Latheron portion was 770; that of
	the Wick portion as follows:-

	<TABLE>
	     Adherents of the Church, .  450 males, 491 females, total 946
	     Seceders,                    21         37                 58
	     Independents,                10         14                 24
                                         _____      _____             ______
		                  Total, 481        542               1028

	Almost all the inhabitants engage in fishing.
	  The endowments of the mission consist of the manse and glebe,
	and L.25 Sterling annually, given by the Society in Scotland for
	Propagating Christian Knowledge.  Seat-rents make up the mis-
	sionary's stipend to nearly L. 100 a-year.  But the district is very
	poor, and this latter source of income varies considerably.  An
	additional endowment, even of L. 50 a-year, would be an unspeak-
	able blessing to this important mission.
	   Missionaries of Bruan.-1. William Mackintosh, afterwards


