
		           LUNAN.                                329

        There is no public-house ill the parish,-a circumstance upon
which we have good grounds to congratulate ourselves, if we consi-
der the demoralizing effects which low ale-houses uniformly produce
in other quarters.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated at the south-eastern
extremity of the parish, and would be very inconvenient for the
great majority of the population, if the parish were not a small one.
None of the parishioners, however, are more than two miles from the
church. This fabric is very ancieint. There is no authentic account
of its date. The manse was built in l783, and repaired and enlarged in
1827. It stands on an elevated situation, about a mile to the north-
east of the church. The extent of the glebe is 8.25 imperial acres.
Its value may be estimated at L. 15 per annum. The stipend is 90.25
bolls of grain, L. 35, 7s. 11d. in money, and (this being one of the
small livings) L. 44, 1Os. 3d. from Government. There is only one
Dissenter in the parish. The number of heads of families attending
the parish church is 43, and the average number of communicants
is 158; but nearly 30 of these are from the neighbouring parishes.
	The amount of collections yearly, on an average of the last se-
ven years, is L. 18, 4s. iId.; and for religious and charitable objects
about L. 3,-a sum by no means small, considering the, number and
the nature of the population, which is entirely agricultural.
        Education.-The parish school has been found quite sufficient
for the education of the parish, and is, at present, filled by a very
efficient teacher. It is attended by about 60 scholars. The
branches of education are those usually taught in parish schools;
and the fees for reading are 10s.; reading and writing, 12s.; and
when arithmetic is combined, 16s.: the languages or mathematics
L. 1 per annum.
	The salary of the schoolmaster is L. 31, including an allowance
for a garden, and the school fees may amount to about L. 25 an-
nually. It is believed that there are none in the parish above nine
years of age, who cannot read and write with more or less accuracy.
	David Jamieson, a farmer in the parish, bequeathed,  many
years ago, 2000 merks Scots, one-half of the interest of which to
go to the  poor's funds, and the other half to the schoolmaster, for
the education of six poor children.
	The kirk session have lately appropriated the annuity of 6s.8d.
left by Mr Peddie's Widow, for the purpose of forming a parish li-
brary.


