
116                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

reduced, notwithstanding the durable nature of that mode of
building.
   The next most ancient place is Balbegno Castle, on the same
estate, and still habitable. The date of 1509 is visible on the pa.
rapet wall. The expense of building, it is said to have been so
great, that the proprietor, whose name was Wood, was obliged to
sell the lands of Balnakettle and Littlestrath, then belonging to
him, to enable him to complete it. Various pieces of sculpture
are exhibited in the higher parts of the wall. Within, there is a
lofty hall, the roof of which is composed of freestone, arched and
groined, and divided into rixteen triangular spaces. In these are
painted the names and coats of arms of sixteen Scotch peers.
   The lands of Balbegno were given by William the Lion, who
died in 1214, to one "Ranulphus Glius Walteri de Lenorp." The
deed of gift included "Lachra," that is, Luthur or Halkerton, with
" Balbegno in vic. de Kinkardin;" and Ranulphus is designated
in it, "Falconario nostro." This was the origin of the name and
estates of the family of Halkerton in this county, now represented
by the Earl of Kintore. By what means Balbegno was separated
from the rest of the Halkerton property is unknown. In 1680, it
was possessed by Andrew Wood. His son, also named Andrew,
sold it in 1687 to Andrew Middleton of Pitgarvie. In 1722, we
find it in possession of John Ogilvy, son of George Ogilvy of Lu-
nan, an advocate in Edinburgh. A sister of his had married and
survived Robert Middleton, the former proprietor; and by this
connection it may have come into his hands. He left four daugh-
ters, the oldest of whom married and survived a Dr Brisbane, and
possessed the estate till 1778, when it was sold to the father of the
present proprietor, for a sum not equal to a fifth part of its presents
value.
   Another ancient building is Fettercairn House, a few hundred
yards north by east of the village. A tasteful addition to it was
builts a few years afo by the present proprietor. The original
part bears the date of 1666, and the initials of the name of John
Earl of Middleton. His initials, coronet, and coat-of-arms, also,
appear on the capital of an octagonal pillar in the village. This
pillar, which is understood to have been the across of the old town
of Kincardine, the remains of which are still traced on the Fet-
tercairn estate, bears the date of 1670, and rises about seven feet
above a mass of building, composed of six concentric cicles, or
circular steps. An iron rivet is still seen on one side, to which
                                    3


