
                      DESKFORD.                                 75

direct. The contributions are to be made quarterly. For the current
quarter, which is the first, they have been upwards of L.3, and it
is hoped that, with an improving appreciation of the objects, they will
increase. The people were formerly in the habit of occasionally
collecting in church for most of the above objects, but not so fre-
quently or regularly as their importance merited. They have also
had regular annual collections for the Aberdeen Infirmary, and for
a pauper lunatic fund, under the management of the presbytery,
for the benefit of such pauper lunatics-belonging to congregations
which contribute, whether dissenting or other-as require to be sent
to an asylum, but whose friends have neither the means of send-
ing them thither, nor of keeping them at home. The average
annual collections for each of the latter two objects is about L.2,
and these will require to be continued. But the contribu-
tions of the association for religious purposes, as above explained,
will admit of all the other collections made in church being wholly
applied for the maintenance of the poor in the parish. The ave-
rage annual amount of collections for this purpose is about L.20.
There is also the sum of L.10, 12s. 2d., interest of money left at
various times, and by various individuals, for the poor.  The whole
annual amount of contributions for religious and charitable objects
has been, on an average of seven years, about L. 28.
  Education.-There are only two schools in the parish which have.
any endowment-the one, the parochial,-the other, a dame
school, taught by two respectable females, sisters, who enjoy,
through the kindness of the proprietor, the accommodations of a
house and garden, and 3 bolls I firlot of meal annually. In this
latter school, little boys as well as girls are taught to read, and
the latter also to knit and sew. The average number attending
is about 28. The fees are, for reading alone, 2s. per quarter, for.
reading, sewing, and knitting, 2s. 6d. The parochial schoolmas-
ter's salary is L.32.  The accommodations are very liberal and
excellent.  The branches taught are, reading, writing, English
grammar, arithmetic, and Latin when required. The average
number of scholars attending is 40. The expense of education
is from 10s. to L.1 per annum, the latter sum only when Latin
along with the other branches is taught. The fees received by
the teacher may amount to L.15 or L.16 per annum. He has
also an allowance from the Dick Bequest, which has been hitherto
rather more than L.25 per annum.  There are - besides, seve-
ral Sabbath schools taught in the parish, the number attending


