
				DUNSCORE.                   341

ed in the old churchyard of Dunscore, the ancient burying-place
of the family.
	Friars' Carse.--Friars' Carse, which was anciently dependent
on the rich Abbey of Melrose, also demands a brief notice. In
Catholic times it was a cell or monkish residence, of which, although
there are no remains, there are still a number of antique stone
figures, such as adorned Catholic chapels and churches, placed in
the avenue leading to the present dwelling-house. There is a
small loch on the property, with an artificial island in it; and
Grose says, that the loch was the fish-pond of the friary, and that
the monks concdaled their valuables in the island when the English
invaded Stranith. After the Reformation, the estate of Friars'
Carse was acquired by the laird of Allisland or Ellisland, an ad-
joining farm. So far back as, 1465, Cardinal Antonius confirmed
a charter by the monastery of Melrose to John Kirkpatrick of
Allisland of the thirty-six pound land of Dalgoner, includine, Kil-
lilago and Dempsterton. But whether Friars' Carse itself was
included in this conveyance, or was so early alienated from the
monks, we have not been able to learn. From the Kirkpatricks
the whole property afterwards passed to the Maxwells of Tinwald,
to whom it belonged in 1634. In the time of the poet Burns, who
resided some years in this parish, and was tenant of Ellisland, the
estate of Friars' Carse belonged to the Riddels of Glenriddel.
Burns was a frequent visitor of the late James Riddel, Esq., and
the original copy of his poem of the " Whistle," in the poet's own
handwriting, is still at Friars' Carse, where it was composed, and
is now in the possession of Mrs Crichton. The husband of this
lady, the late Dr Crichton of Friars' Carse, left an immense sum,
(about L. 100,000) at the disposal of his widow and other trustees,
to be applied to charitable purposes. The trustees at first con-
templated the endowment of a College at Dumfries, but various
difficulties having presented themselves against the execution of
this scheme, the erection of a Lunatic Asylum for the county,
with several other minor objects, is now understood to be resolved
upon. Such an institution will be of immense bedefit to the south
of Scotland, and be well worthy the benevolent intentions, while it
will be eminently calculated to perpetuate the name, of the donor.
Bogrie and Sundaywell.--There are two old square towers still
standing in the upper part of Gleneslin, and on opposite sides of
the glen, at a point where it contracts to a narrow pass. The
names of these towers are Bogrie and Sundaywell and both


