
         1244                      PERTFISHIRE.

       the clan Ross, and his most powerful and confidential friends,
       dwelt there, and gave the name Kincardine to the place where
       they resided.
           This parish is of a triangular form, and is divided on the south
       and east from the parishes of St Ninians, Gargunnock, and Kip-
       pen, by the Forth; and by the Teith, on the north, from Le-
       cropt and Kilmadock.  From the confluence of these streams to
       the south-west extremity of the parish along the Forth, the extent
       is about ten miles; and from the same point to the north-west ex-
       tremity on the Teith, twelve miles.  The western boundary mea-
       sures about seven miles from north to south.  A part of the pa-
       rish of Kilmadock, about 3 miles in breadth, and extending from
       the Teith to the Forth, intersects this parish; but there is a
       quoad sacra church at Norriestoun, in the western part of Kin-
       cardine, which accommodates such of the people of Kincardine,
       Port, and Kilmadock, as live at an inconvenient distance from their
       parish churches.
           Extent.-The eastern part of Kineardine is about 2 1/2 miles
       from Stirling.   The parish contains about 6000 Scotch, or about
       7500 imperial acres; about 5000 acres of which extending along
       the Forth, are carse, and 2500 along the Teith, are dryfield land.
          Topographical Appearances.-The only elevated part of this
       parish is a gradually sloping ridge, which commences at the man-
       sion-house of Blair-Drummond, and ascends westward by gentle
       undulations, from about 40 to 300 feet above the level of the
       sea, at the highest part of the road, from Thornhill to Callan-
       der.  The soil along this ridge is, with few exceptions, of good
       quality, and slopes laterally to the Teith on the north, and to the
       carse on the south.  There is nothing very remarkable along this
       line, except the varied and interesting scenery which the higher
       points command.  The view to the west and north comprehends
       a poroon of the Grampian mountains, such as the cloud-capped
       Benlomond, Beavenue, and Beniedi; and also Benvoirlich, Stuc-
       kachrone, and Uamvar.  On the east, the range of the Ochils,
       including Dumyat, the Sheriffmuir, the Abbey Craig, the Castle
       of Stirling, the Gillies Hill, the field of Bannockburn, and the
       rock,  of Craigforth, itli crowd in rich variety upon the sight and
       recal many historical recollections.  But, even beyond all these,
       the line of the Frith of Forth is seen extending eastward as far
       eye can reach.  On the south, the view is bounded by the


