
   18				ELGINSHIRE.

   royalty. Excise and small debt courts are held by the Justices
   of the Peace, but since the Sheriff small-debt court came into ope-
   ration, there is little business before the latter. About five years
   ago, the chief magistrate, Mr Lawson Junior, and some other pub-
   lic-spirited individuals, laid before the citizens a proposal for light-
   ing the streets with gas, providing they would voluntarily assess
   themselves for a certain number of years, to defray the expense
   over L. 30, granted annually for this purpose by the magistrates,
   out of the common good. The proposal was almost unanimously
   acceded to,--a gas company was formed,--a gas manufactory built,
   and the subsequent winter the streets and shops, and many private
   houses, were lighted with gas. The matter continued on this
   footing till the passing of the new Scotch Burgh Police Bill, when the
   inhabitants adopted the lighting clause, and assessed themselves in
   the necessary sum, but by a majority negatived the otber clauses. The
   principal streets had been previously causewayed, and had paved foot-
   paths, and the town-council being chosen commissioners of po-
   lice, were appointed to enforce the provisions of, the statute against
   the proprietors as to lighting, and the repairs of the pavements.
   No funds for watching and cleaning being placed at the disposal
   of the commissioners, they are not perhaps to be blamed that there
   is no nightly patrol for the protection of property, and that the
   streets are cleared of filth in a very imperfect and slovenly manner.
     Means of Communication.--The inland means of communication
   in the town and parish are very ample. There is a post-office in
   the town and turnpike roads diverging in every. direction.  The
   great north road passes through the town,-another turnpike road
   strikes directly south, and leads to Rothes and the banks of the
   Spey, and another north to the sea-port of Lossiemouth.  The
   commutation roads to Pluscarden, Mosstowie, and Blackhills are
   in good repair. The Lossie is crossed by one iron and three stone
   arches, the most distant not more than a mile from the town. The
   mail, coach passes and repasses every day, and a letter despatched
   from London through the post-office reaches Elgin about three
   o'clock P. M. of the third day. Thire are daily mail-gigs to Los-
   siemouth and, Burghead. A stage-coach starts for Inverness every
   lawful day at seven o'clock A. M. and returns at nine o'clock P. M.
   Another for Banff at half-past five o'clock A. M. where it commu-
   nicates with a coach from Aberdeen, and returns at eight o'clock P. M.
   The Defiance coach from Edinburgh to Inverness passes and re-
   passes through the town in the middle of every lawful day. There
                                  3


