
			BALMERINO.                           581

grained, compact, and hard, and at one time was much sought after
for oven floors.
  The trap or whinstone consists of several varieties, namely, amygda-
loid, trap tuffa, compact felspar, clinkstone, and claystone porphyry-
Interesting sections of each may be seen along the shore, from the
harbour towards Wormit Bay. The amygdaloid is generally coarse
and tuffaceous, but gradually passes, in many places, into a finer va-
riety, which may be considered as approaching to the characters
of a greenstone. The numerous cavities contained in the coarse
kind are lined with white amethyst, flesh-red, calcareous spar,
white felspar, calcedony, agate, green earth, and common quartz.
In these nodular inasses, the calcedony appears to have been first
deposited and the quartz last. The Scurr Hill is well known to
the lapidaries and other collectors of these beautiful minerals,
and no part of the island, perhaps, affords in such abundance, as
well as such rare and choice specimens of the several varieties of
agates. The compact felspar becomes porphyritic, is of a deep
flesh-red colour, and susceptible of a fine polish. The whole of
these rocks, as may be seen at Wormit Bay and Birkhill, are in.
timately associated with the stratified deposits, and afford the stu-
dent in geology an interesting view of the manner in which the
igneous matter has been injected amongst the sedimentary beds;
as well as the induration and disruptions among the latter, that
have resulted from the intrusion of the former. The sandstone
is, in many instances, by the intrusion of the trap, split up into thin
laminae, varying from an inch to a quarter of an inch in thickness;
it is sometimes tossed into a vertical position; and in other cases,
as at Birkhill beach, the two rocks are so blended and mixed tip
with each other, as to render it difficult to distinguish them, or
to separate the amorphous from the stratified portions.
  Boulders of primitive rocks are to be found in every locality
along the shore, as well as on the highest ridges. One of huge
dimension, which lay a little to the north of the manse, excited no
small degree of attention, as well as speculation, among the peo-
ple, as to the means by which it had been placed bridge-like.
across a stream there. It measured about twelve feet in length
by nine in breadth, and was of great thickness. By the last in-
cumbent, who was fonder of praetical agricaltural improvements
than of plausible and ingenious speculations, it was unceremonious-
ly committed to the blasting influences of gunpowder, when, after
being blown into an hundred fragments, it afforded employment


