
232                       ELGINSHIRE.

Esq. of Arndilly, connected with his estate in the parish of Bo-
harm. Aikenway is divided into two farms, upper and lower
Aikenway, and a small croft. Valued rent is L.130 Scots.
  Antiquities.-In the immediate vicinity of the village, the site
of the once important and well fortified castle of Rothes is to be
seen. This place of defence, the ancient seat of the Earls of
Rothes, stood on the extreme verge of a point of land running
out from the more elevated parts of the parish to a consider-
able distance, and the situation must have afforded every facili-
ty to the occupants for expelling the assaults of invading endmies.
And not only did it possess this natural advantage, but, moreover,
was surrounded by a high wall, and defended by a ditch on the
land side, over which a draw-bridge was thrown, whereby the
castle was nearly insulated, and well secured. The space oc-
cupied by this fortalice was pretty large, as the inequalities of
the surface coveting the ruins sufficiently indicate. At the pre-
sent day, no vestige of the castle itself remains; only a por-
tion of the high wall which once encompassed it stands a con-
spicuous object, and seems to call to remembrance the war-
like character of our ancestors. About half a century ago, many
of the stones of the ruin were removed to assist in the building of
some of the houses of the village. The exact date when the cas-
tle was erected, is uncertain, but it may be safely supposed that it
was not earlier than the middle of the fifteenth century. About
that period, the first Earl of Rothes was created, of the ancient
and honourable house of Leslie, and the castle was the residence
of the Earls, to whom it has given the title. On the Peninsula
of Aikenway, already alluded to, at its extreme point, which is
a rock of considerable height overhanging the Spey, it is re-
ported that an old castle once stood, bearing the name of the
Castle of Oakenwall. The situation was peculiarly eligible, be-
ing surrounded on three parts by the Spey, whose broad, deep,
and rapid stream, together with its steep and elevated banks, af-
forded sufficient defence; and the hill of Beneagen inwardly
rendered the place not only a safe retreat, but a Command-
ing position for its inhabitants. The whole form of the ground
on which the castle is said to bave stood, evinces that great
care was taken to render the place suitable by art, as well as pro-
per, and convenient by nature, the only approach to the castle be-
ing by a narrow road on the top of an elevated ridge, from which
the sides of the ground suddenly and equally sloped to the edge of


