
   226                         ELGINSHIRE.

  Potatoes,                      L.790 0 0
  Thinning and felling of wood,   1493 0 0
  Gardens,                         140 0 0
  Salmon fishings, and cockles,    400 0 0
                          _________________
                              L.21,822 0 0

	          	V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      There is no market-town in the parish. The nearest is For-
   res, distant about four miles frdm the centre of the parish. There
   are several small villages; Dyke, Kintessack, Broom of Moy,
   and Whitenaire. The population of the largest does not exceed
   200.
      Means of Communication.--Tbe nearest post-office is that of
   Forres. The great post-road, from Aberdeen to Inverness, on
   which the mail and two stage-coaches run daily, traverses the pa-
   rish fromeast to west, and county roads intersect it in all direc-
   tions. Agreat number of bridges span the burns which flow
   through the parish, and an elegant suspension-bridge connects it
   with Forres.
      Ecclesiastical State.--The Established Church is the only place
   of public worship in the parish. It is conveniently situated. It was
   built in 1781, and is in good repair. It is seated for betwixt 800
   and 900. No seat rents are exacted. The number of communicants
   belonging to the-parisb, and from the neighbourhood, is about
   250 The manse was built about fifty-one years ago. It received re-
   pairs and an addition in 1822. The stipend is 16 chalders, of
   which one-half is barley, and the other meal; besides L.8, 6s. 8d.
   for communion elements, and L.20 Scots, in lieu of a grass glebe.
   There are two glebes, consisting of 10 acres, valued at L. 16.
      Two hundred and forty-nine families attend the Established
   Church. There are 43 Dissenting, and 3 Episcopalian families
   in they parish.
      Education.--There is one parish school, the teacher of which
   bas more than the legal accommodation, and the maximum salary.
   This parish ismithin the bounds embraced by the Dick Bequest.
   The allowance from that source varies according to circumstances.
   The average for the last seven years allocated to this parish is
   L.34 per annum. The session-clerkship is worth about L.5.
   The school-fees amount to about L.30. The branches taught
   are, Greek, Latin, French, mathematics, &c. For the purpose
   of elevating the standard of education in the parish, the school-
   master has hitherto taught geography and English grammar gratis.
   Till within these few years, there was a school in the village of

	                     4


