
554                      LANARKSHlRE.

Clyde. Here, too, was a place known by the name of " Castle-,
dykes," which was said to be finely situated on the right bank of
the Clyde, near Carstairs. From the station at Castledykes, there
diverged a vicinal road across Clydesdale, probably intended to
form a communication between the western Iter, and the estuary
of the Clyde. This road passed the Clyde near Lanark, and led
over Stonebyre hill, after which it crossed the Nether. Beyond
this point, its vestiges have been frequently discovered by the
plough. The locality of this now unknown spot may be further
pretty accurately ascertained, by the fact, that on the south side of
the Mouse, are the remains of a Roman camp in Lanark moor,
said to be three miles from Castledykes.
	Another account is, that the Iter, or great road, passed through
the station at Castledykes, near Carstairs, and leaving Ravenstru-
ther on the right, proceeded to Cleghorn mill, where it crossed
the River Mouse. The road led thence through the enclosures of
Cleghorn, leaving the Roman camp on the right, and proceeded
by Collylaw, Kilcadzow, Coldstream and Guilshields, to Belstane,
in the neighbourhood of Carluke, being throughout Clydesdale
known by the appropriate name of Watling Street.
	Near Carstairs church were found the remains of a bath. Be-
sides pots, dishes, and instruments of war, as well as those used in
sacrifice, there have been, found coins bearing the inscription of
M. Aurelius, M. Antoninus, Trajanus Imperator, &c. some of
which were sent by the late Mr Fullerton to the Society of Anti-
quaries, and to the University of Glasgow. A cairn or tumulus
was dug up a few years ago, on the lands of Mossplat, and some
urns were found in it, one of which is preserved by Mr Campbell
of Dalserf. All these circumstances concur in affording a proof of
the very long residence of the Romans in the neighbourhood of
Carstairs.
	In 1820, there were found underneath the stone-dike that en-
closes the south-west part of the grebe, a cannon bullet ten feet
below the surface, imbedded among the rubbish of old buildings,
and close by it, a floor of considerable dimensions, laid with large
smooth pavement: also, a gable-wall of immense thicknes, built
with large massy stones. In l838, there were found upon the side of a
reclaimed moss, turned up with a hoe, thirty-six silver coins, neatly
packed in a cow's hoof, having on one side " Civitas London," and,
on the other, a man's face with the inscription, " Edw. Reg. Ang."


