
154                         LANARKSHIRE.

men's dresses, shirting, &c. at their new and splendid works in
Hutchesontown, Glasgow. Mr William Dunn of Duntocher, the
most extensive and successful spinner in Scotland, as an individual,
has upwards of 600 looms, upon which he executes various very
beautiful plain fabrics. The power-loom is daily extending into
new fields of manufacture, and it is evident that it will ultimately
be the only means of weaving, excepting for fabrics of very com-
plex patterns.
	  Steam-looms have increased greatly of late years. In August
1831, the Lancefield Spinning Company employed 635 looms;
and Messrs Johnston and Galbraith, James Finlay and Company,
and William Dunn, 2405. These looms on an average weave
fourteen yards each per day. Allowing each loom to work 300
days in a year, these four companies would throw off 10,101,000
yards of cloth, which, at the average price of 4 1/2d. per yard, is
L. 189,393, 15s. per annum. The power and hand-looms be-
longing to Glasgow amount to 47,127, viz. steam-looms, 15,127,
hand-looms in the city and suburbs, 18,537; in other towns for
Glasgow manufacturers, 13,463.
	The extension of the use of the power-loom has for the last
twenty years borne hard upon the poor band-loom weavers, who
have long suffered from low wages with exemplary patience. The
evil was at first aggravated by a natural cause. When the weaver
found difficulty in making wages to support his family, the only ap-
parent remedy was to get looms for his children, girls as well as
boys, and to set them to work also. This, when work was to be
had, helped the individual's family, but it brought so much more
weaving labour into operation in the trade; previously overstocked,
that the evil was increased, and every succeeding year the prices
of weaving became lower. Many attempts have been made by the
hand-loom weavers to have their prices regulated by act of Parlia-
ment, or Board of Trade; and in this they have occasionally been
aided by some well-meaning men of rank and influence, but, as
might have been expected, without the least success. For why fix
the wages or prices of the hand-loom weavers, whilst those of the
mason, joiner, farm-servant, &c. are left to be adjusted by the con-
stantly operating natural causes springing from demand and supply?
If the prices of weaving were fixed, whenever a period of stagna-
tion arrived, the manufacturers would either get weavers to do their
work at lower prices clandestinely, or they would cease to manufac-
ture at all, thereby throwing a great proportion of the weavers com-


