
                             BOWER.                          115

         The improvements formerly begun on the estates of Scarm-
      clet and Clayock, by the late Lieutenant-Colonel Benjamin
      Williamson of Banneskirk, have been considerably advanced by
      Sir Ralph Anstruther, by the erection of new farms and stead-
      ings, and dividing the possessions of the tenants by ditches 6 feet
      wide by 3 feet deep, which preclude the encroachments of cattle,
      and lay the land dry.  Mr Henderson of Stempster has inclosed
      many acres by ditches, and improved his property by digging marl
      pits.
         The estate of Brabsterdorran (said once to have belonged to
      the earldom of Caithness) was lately acquired from that of South
      Dunn, by Colonel Stewart of Strath, and resold to David Hen-
      derson, younger of Stempster: it is now more than four or five
      times the value of what it was When it belonged to the late Mrs
      Henrietta Sinclair Wemyss of South Dunn.
         The improvements begun on it by General Stewart, by the
      erection of a dwelling and offices on the site of the old-mansion,
      some hedging, draining, and road-making, have been further ad-
      vance, and the mains enlarged, with extended age, following,
      and enclosures with stone and turf dikes, as also drains; on the
      Mains, there were added a steading of offices) and a thrashing-mill
      driven by water, besides a new farm at lower Gillock, bounding
      with Lower Scarmclet and Quoynce.
         On the hill-ground to the east, beyond Brabster and Lister, at
      nearly equal distance from Brabster, Campster, and Belster of
      Lord Caithness's property, is placed the standing-stone called
      Stone Ludd, whicb, by an old tradition, is supposed to be the me-
      morial of a battle fougbt and gained.
        Torfaeus mentions a fight begun in the moss of Skitten, (Paludi-
      bus Skidensibus,) now oftener called Kilmster, by two brothers for
      the Earldom of Caithness,-Liotus the elder, being supported in
      his right by the King of Norway, Scullius, the younger being aid-
      ed by the King of Scotland.  It is said that the younger was slain
      in battle, and buried in Hofn, probably Stone Hone, near Wat-
      ten; and that the elder, victorious brother, was mortally wounded.
      It is not improbable that the stone was raised as a memorial of
      Liotus, the Earl of Caithness and Orkney, in the tenth century.
        The lands of Bowertower and Auckhorn, Seater, Hastigrow,
      Kirk, and Stanstill, with Whitegan, belong to David Sinclair
      Wemyss, of South Dunn, and still make up the highest share of the
      valuation of the parish.  The mansion-house of Stanstill is let to a


