
                                ALVIE.                               89

ply. The beggar observed Eill that passed through an aperture on
the side of the hut, and returned to report what he had seen. In
consequence of the discovery thus made, the Macphersons eollect-
ed a strong party on the following night, seized and massacred the
whole band of Clannmhicgillenaoidh, in the cave, demolished the
hut erected over it, and thus put an end to these freebooters, and
to all their depredations. The pretended beggar by whom Clann-
mhicgill.enaoidh were betrayed was called Ian Mae EoghaiWD, or
John Macewan, and the tribe of the Macphersons descended from
him are distinguished by the appellation of Sliochd Ian Mhiceo-
ghainn, that is John Macewan's descendants. It is said that all this
tribe have ever since been peculiarly liable, at some period of life,
to be more or less afflicted with gravel.
   On the meadow of Belleville, between the public road and the
Spey, is to be seen- Lochandu, celebrated in Sir Thomas Dick
Lauder's novel of that name. This is a pond nearly of an oval
shape, formed by the Spey, before any embankment bad been rais-
ed to protect the adjacent meadows from the inundations of that
river. Lochaiidu was surrounded with a thick belt of natural birch
trees, that hid it from the siglit, till the late Mr Macpherson of
Belleville, in the course of his improvements, laid it open to view,
by rooting out the trees, and converting the ground about it to
arable land. The dark grove, formed by the trees about Loch-
andu, is said to have been a place of nocturnal rendezvous, where
Borlum of infamous memory, and his gang of depredators, usually
met to plan their predatory excursions.*
   Modern Buildings.-There are only two buildings in the parish
entitled to particular notice. The first of these is the house of
Belleville, built by the translator of Ossian, after a design by.the
celebrated architect, Robert Adam, Esq. It stands on a beauti-
ful eminence, conspicuous from the public road, sheltered on the
north by a plantation of Scotch fir and larch, now grown to a consi-
derable size, and by the beattiful rock of Craigbuie, covered-with
natural birch, among which a ' re some trees of unusual magnitude.
The lawn in front of the house is adorned with upwards of loo
large trees of hard wood, and a fine row of elms along the Old Mi-
litary Road, planted by Brigadier Mackintosh in 1715. The other
is the house of Kinrara, built by the late Duchess of Gordon, in
the form of a cottage, on a very sequestered and romantic spcv4
Here ]Borlum murdered, or caused to be 3nurcl*re4 a servant ae- his fiw ,e-
fusing to go along with him across the Spey to rob the house of a weaver in Kilij-
huntly, who was known to have a good deal-or rnonev.


