
			  KINNETTLES.                           211

pose the interior parts of the area of the parish, are covered, al-
most universally, with a coating of various materials, which con-
ceals them, with a very few exceptions of basalt, from our view.
That coating, whether thick or thin, `s it varies from one foot to
six feet, is composed of alluvial deposits, generally imposed in
layers. The lowermost layer generally consists of reddish sand
or gravel; and the uppermost is composed sometimes of sandy
loam, and sometimes of loam mixed with clay.
	Soil.--To the agriculturist, variety of soil, corresponding to the
variety of crop which he grows, must be extremely useful. Accord-
ingly, this parish fortunately enjoys the various soils whibh are
suited to the purposes not only of the agriculturist, but also of the
horticulturist, the botanist, the florist, and the nurseryman. These
soils are the clayey, loamy, sandy, gravelly, and mossy. However
diversified may be the strata of the subsoil, they all, with the ex-
ception of the mossy, appear to rest, at various depths, on sand-
stone or freestone. Their adjuncts and concomitants may be stated
as follows:--

<TABLE>
 Soils.     Extent in      Varying depth     Wetness or dryness.    Productiveness.
            imp. acres.      in inches.

Clayey,        434          From 12 to 36       Dampish.             Most productive.
Loamy,        1881               10 to 18       Moderately dry.      Nearly as productive.
Sandy,         252                8 to 15       Dry.                 Less productive.
Gravelly,      339                6 to 13       Generally dry.       Still less productive.
Mossy,         172               14 to 48       Wettish.             Least productive.

	From the stratifications discernible in all these soils, it appears
highly probable that they have been transported. That this has
been the case with regard to the sandy, gravelly, and mossy soils
in particular, must be obvious to every intelligent geologist. In
former time, when the superficial area of the parish presented
one continuous field, without dike or ditch, and when it was par-
tially cultivated by a great number of small tenants, who tilled
their parcels in alternate ridges, depositing all the stones which
they collected on the cultivated ridge, on the intermediate uncul-
tivated one, boulders prevailed to a great extent in the several
soils; but, as soon as the spirit of cultivation began to operate
with new energy, and on a more extended and efficient plan, many
of the most manageable of these boulders were either blasted with
gunpowder and carted away, or trailed off the ground by means of a
strong sledge, drawn by oxen and horses. And, now that agriculture
has reached a degree of perfection unknown to our forefathers, few,
comparatively, of these stones are to be seen on the surface of the


