
     of Dundee.

cepting the ancient church and steeple formerly described, the
spire of the chapel in the Cowgate, and the town-house, none
of them seems, as a piece of architecture, to be entitled to
much attention.  The last is certainly a building of uncom-
mon taste and elegance.  It was planned by the elder Adams,
and does him honour.
   Among the regulations unfavourable to the freedom of the
market, and consequently to the interests of the inhabitants,
those might have been mentioned which relate to the trade in
coals.  There are only 4 births, or places at which vessels
loaded with them are permitted to deliver their cargoes; and,
if these places are occupied, all other vessels, however great
the demand may be, are excluded, and must continue shut up,
unless the cargoe should be sold in wholesale to one person, or
unless the master, if he means to retail, will consent to fell
below the current price.  The first occupiers, accordingly,
must reduce their prices, or see their rivals carry off all their
customers.  The intention of this regulation was, no doubt, to
prevent any unfair rise of prices from combinations among
the masters.  But its real effect is to increase the risk and ex-
pence of the trade, and to induce those who are engaged in it
to have recourse to other ports, rather than fell at a diminish-
ed profit, or at a loss.  Perhaps there is no branch of business,
wherein those intermediate dealers, often branded in law by the
names of forestallers and regretters, would be more necessary,
or where the encouragement of such would tend more to the
general benefit.  When the importer must also turn retailer,
the time in which he should be fetching a new cargo is lost,
and he brings fewer coals in any given period to market; and
he and all his ships company must be paid for their time, in-
stead of one regretter.
   In the foregoing account, there are, no doubt, many articles
omitted; particularly the brewing and ship-building manufac-

     VOL. VIII. I i


