
                GLASFORD.                                297

<TABLE=Population>
			III.--POPULATION
		In 1755 the population was                559
       1792,                                  788
       1811,                                  900
       1821,                                 1300
       1831,                                 1730

	The increase is chiefly to be found in the manufacturing part
of the community, and may be attributed to the encouragement
given to, feuing, by the proprietors of land around the village.

both at one and the same time, for the space of five hours together, to increase his tor-
ments,--afterwards they condemned him to die, passing sentence of death upon him
in the forenoon, and executing him in the afternoon of the same. The same John
Semple of good report, well versed in the Holy Scriptures. by the very quoting of
which be even dashed his persecutors. He bore sufferings with much patience.
	"Item, A sister of the foresail John Semple, coming to see him while he was a pri-
soner in Edinburgh, and to put on his dead clothes, the persecutors made her a pri-
soner, also first in Edinburgh, then in Donnoter Castle. Likewise the mother of the
said young woman named Janet Scott, going to see her daughter at Donnoter, she
was also made a prisoner there; afterwards they were brought to Leith to be sent
over sea to America, but it was so ordered that both were reserved, and sent to Edin-
burgh Tolbooth, where they lay in prison a long time. The whole time of the daugh-
ter's imprisonment was about two years and three quarters of a year, and the mother's
imprisonment was near two years.
	"Item, Janet Scott suffered much by the troopers coming at several times upon her,
free quartering, and destroying her corn, grass, and meal, and driving away her
horses and cattle, which she never after received, the said troopers carrying themselves
rudely and barbarously to them in the house.
	"Item, In 1685, Michael ,Marshall and John Kay were both taken prisoners for
their non-conformity, and banished and sent over sea to New Jersay in America.
The said Michael Marshall staid several years in America. After the late happy re-
volution, designing to come home, he was taken prisoner at sea, and was carried to
France, where he was kept one year and a half in prison, and endured great hardships
before he was delivered.
	"Item, About the said year 1685, Alexander Hamilton and John Struthers in Shaw-
tonhill, John Staple in Shawton, John Fleeming in Chapelton, John Walker there,
James Scott there, John Paterson there, John Semple in Nethersbields, William
Semple there, Gavin Paterson there, John Marshall, elder and younger, Chapelton,
and James Lowrie there, were sorely troubled and harassed by the then Lord Glas-
ford, who caused a troop of soldiers to search for and apprehend them, upon pretence
of conversing with, resetting and giving entertainment to persons who had been in
arms against the established Government, and having been actually in arms them-
selves, upon which allegencies, the said persons were imprisoned fourteen days in
Edinburgh, and put to much expence in employing agents to defend them, and al-
though the said Lord Glasford summoned many witnesses to compear against them,
yet could he not get anything proven against them.
	"Item, The parish of Glasford was much oppressed in the year before the rising at
Bothwell Bridge, by the free quartering of a company of the Highland host, by
paying besides to each of them sixpence by day, besides hardships and robberies com-
mitted by them upon the people of the said parish, while they quartered them.
	"Item, John Alston in Glasford Mill lay half a year in Glasgow Tootbooth for refus-
ing the test.
	"Item, John Fleeming, Elder, in Chapelton, was imprisoned thirty-four weeks, partly
Glasgow, partly in Edinburgh, and partly in Burnthallin, for his refusing to take
the test, and had the sentence of banishment passed upon him to America, although
providentially it was not executed.
	"Item, William Semple in Nethershields was imprisoned in Stirling about three
months, because of his refusing the test.
	"Item, Thomas Fleeming in Chapelton was, upon the account of his non-conformity,
and going to the field preaching much troubled by the Donnoter Hall-yards, who
caused take an inventory of his goods in order to seize them, which cost him about
16 pounds Scots before be could get his goods set free, and himself delivered from the
said oppression. As also the said Thomas Fleeming was apprehended by Laird Sym


