
                 STRACHUR AND STRALACHLAN.                107

towns upon the Clyde; and the coach establishment between St
Cathrine's and Lochgoilhead affords the opportunity of comfort-
able and speedy conveyance.
   Strachur Bay, although upon a small scale, affords good and
safe anchorage to vessels when the wind is from the north-east
and south-east.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The churches are situated as favourably
as possible to the greater proportion of the population, the dis-
tance between them being six miles, and from each extremity of
the parish about the same. The church of Strachur was built in
the year l789, and is in need of repair. It accommodates about 4OO
sitters. The late Miss Janet Campbell of Strachur left a legacy
of L.20 Sterling to the poor of the parish of Strachur, about four
years ago. The manse was built in the year 1779, and repaired
different times since that period. Number of families attending,
107. Average amount of church collections during the year,
L12, 10s.
   The parish church in Stralachlan was built in the year 1792,
and is undergoing repairs, which are not yet finished.
   The parish church accommodates about 150. The number of
families attending church is 190. Average amount of church
collections during the year, L.5, 10s. 6d.
   The sittings in both churches are all free.
   The extent of the glebe is about fifteen acres of very bad
ground, and was never valued. The stipend is the minimum, and
a small sum is paid by the Exchequer to advance it to L.150
per annum. All the parishioners, with the exception of one Ro-
man Catholic family, belong to the Established Church. Divine
service is generally well attended, and the communicants average
about 260.
   Education.-The number of schools in the parish is 3; paro-
chial school, 1.  The other two are side schools, and receive a
part of the salary of the parochial one.  The salary of the paro-
chial teacher is L.26, l0s., and the school-fees amount to L.14.
The parochial teacher has the legal accommodation.
   Number of schools in Stralachlan parish, three; parochial
schools, one. The other two are side schools, and are upheld
by subscription. Salary of parachial teacher, L.10. School fees
yearly, L.8. The teacher pays rent for his house and croft. Ge-
neral expense of education for each scholar yearly, 8s. There
are three schools, and in these the children can all attend.


