
                              ANNAN.                       535

that alienations of the burgh property had taken place to the
amount of more than L. 6000; but as the proceeds of these aliena-
tions have been laid out in works most beneficial to the public
interest, it is obvious that the community have reaped the full
advantage of such alienation. But the debts still remaining a pub-
lic burden on the community, amounting to upwards of L. 4000,
are of a nature more detrimental to the public benefit. From the
Report of the Commissioners on Municipal Corporations of Scot-
land, it appears, that the taxations in this burgh are peculiarly
light, with the exception of the assessment for the poor. In fact,
no taxes of any description are levied by the magistrates except
poor money. There are no incorporated trades with exclusive
privileges in Annan, and no qualification has been enforced to
entitle any one to manufacture or trade within the bounds of the
burgh. The magistrates issue burgess tickets both to ordinary
and honorary burgesses, but they exact no fees of entry except the
stamp of the tickets.

                          ADDENDA. *
	Brydekirk.--The church at Brydekirk was at first designed as a
missionary station, comprehending a detached part of the parish of
Annan, situated about three miles from the burgh on the west
side of the river. It was built entirely at the expense of Mrs Dirom
of Mount Annan and her friends, in the year 1835, and appoint-
ed an established district parish church by the General Assem-
bly in the year 1836; and on the 17th of August following, the
Rev. H. Macbryde Brown was ordained first minister. The church
is a neat and commodious structure, situated at the west or upper
end of the village of the same name. It is seated to contain 370
sitters, including benches for children in the area. The extent of
the parish may amount to nearly two square miles on both sides of the
river, comprehending a part of the adjoining parish of Hoddam,
which is annexed to it. The principal heritors are, Mrs Dirom of
Mount Annan, the Earl of Mansfield, General Sharpe of Hoddam,
and Mr Irving of Bonshaw. The population of the village of
Brydekirk, with the adjacent houses, may amount to about 400.
This number, which forms a part of the 770 deducted from the
congregation of Annan, with the additional number supplied from
the parish of Hoddam, with recent settlers in the village, will now

<FOOTNOTE>See page 526.


