
924				SUPPLEMENT TO THE

nister in Glasgow, Mr David Weems.  It would seem that the
population was increasing, and that he felt the duties of the
parish too heavy for him, for in this year Mr John Cowper was ap-
pointed his colleague.  Even this arrangement does not seem to
have met the necessities of the case, for three years after an addi-
tional parish was erected, of which Mr John Bell, one of the re-
gents of the University, was appointed minister.  This was the Tron
Church parish, and five years later, or in 1595, on an applica-
tion from the people beyond the town, a synodal assembly erected
the Barony into a parish.  Mr Rowat was admitted minister, and
peached to his congregation in the Laigh Barony Kirk, which
is now used as a burying-place.  Such was the church extension
spirit of these days, that, in forty years after the Reformation, there
were three churches to a population of probably considerably less
than 6000.  It would have been well had the same spirit coati-
nued to our day.
   In addition to these churches, Blackfriars or the College
Church, was used, but only on week-days, for the week-day
religious exercises, and for the meetings of session.  This
leads me to notice, that, besides the preaching on the Lord's day,
there was preaching in Blackfriars on Wednesdays and Fridays.
This lasted from eight to nine in the morning, and, prior to an ad-
ditional parish being erected, there was an earnest supplication from
the provost and magistrates to the ministers, to have preaching in
two churches on the Lord's day.  This seems to be an intimation
at once of their religious spirit, and of the felt and growing wants
of the city.  According to M'Ure's History of Glasgow, there
were no more churches in Glasgow than the three which have
been mentioned, down to 1687.  In other words, for nearly a cen-
tury, no provision was made for the increased spiritual wants of the
inhabitants.  At that time, on an indulgence being granted by James
II, two large places of worship were immediately erected by the
Presbyterians, who flocked in crowds to hear their own ministers,
who had been so long proscribed.  The old churches, which still
remained in the hands of the Episcopalians, and which had never
been well attended, were nearly deserted.
   Reverting to the early days of which the Session Record testi-
fies, it appears that the office-bearers of the church, the elders, and
deacons were very numerous, and consisted of the most respecta-
ble--the leading men of the town and parish.  The office was
annual, but usually the same persons were re-elected.  The provost
and magistrates seem always to have been elders.  The name of


