
1022                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

1797 or 1798. Mr Harper, who was translated to Kildrummy in
1795, was appointed Mr Stewart's assistant and successor in 1782.
Mr David Dunbar, admitted February 24, 1796, assistant and
successor to Mr Stewart, died February 20, 1880.  Present incum-
bent admitted November 30, 1830.
       	Antiquities.--This parish has little to boast of in this respect,
There were, till lately, the remains of a Druidical temple. The
farmer on whose ground it was, demolished it, and used the stones
in building fences. On the south-west of the church is Chapel-
ton, where there had been once a Roman Catholic chapel. The
ruins were dug up many years ago. The font stone is still to be
seen in one of the buildings of the farm-steading. There is a
tradition, that the farmer who removed the stones lost the whole
of his horses, and one race of horses after another, till he was com-
pletely ruined, and obliged to give up the lease of his farm.  Far-
ther south, near to the road leading to Alford, is a circular hollow
about five feet in diameter, and about three feet deep, called the
Four Lords' Seat, or Little John's Length. The former name
is given to it from a tradition that four Lords met here and dined
together each on his own ground, viz. Lord Glammis, the Lord
of Leslie, the Lord of Putachie, the Bishop of Aberdeen. A
little to the south-west of this are some vestiges of an encampment,
and a few cairns or tumtuli. One of them, larger than the rest, is
called Cock's Cairn. Tradition says a battle was fought here.
A number of tumuli on the farm of New Leslie have been lately
discovered.
       	 Leslie House, formerly the seat of the Barons of Leslie, may
be now numbered among the antiquities of the parish. It was
first the seat of the Lesleys or Leslyns, from whom it got its
names. It afterwards came into the hands of the Forbeses of Mo-
nymusk, by John Forbes marrying the widow of George the last
Baron of Lesley, who had left the property deeply burdened.
John Forbes, by paying the debts, became possessed or the estate.
The present house, of the castellated form, now ruinous, was
built by William, son of the said John Forbes. It was founded
as appears from an inscription on the walls, June 17, 1661, and
was inclosed by a rampart and fosse. The draw-bridge was on
the west, and guarded by a watch-tower. Over the gate is the
date 1643. Over the door of the house or castle is the inscription,
"Haec Corp. Sydera, Mentem." The Forbes coat-of-arms is to be
seen in several places. The said William Forbes was buried in,

                                    3


