
		            CADDER.                             411

arch, and two of these over the Garnkirk and Kirkintilloch rail-
ways. They are all new and substantial. The Forth and Clyde
Canal intersects the west end of the parish, running nearly parallel
with the Kelvin for about five miles, and has four draw-bridges upon
it in that space. The shipping upon it from Grangemouth where
it joins the Forth, to Bowling Bay, where it joins the Clyde, is very
great. The number of passengers in the swift boats was in 1835
immense, though the boats have not even the essentially necessary
accommodations. They convey even the loaded carts of carriers
along it.
	The Kirkintilloch railway was opened in 1826, and cost about
L. 7000 per mile. It intersects the east end of the parish, about
five miles almost directly across. From the canal 160 feet above
the sea level, formed by twenty locks, rising each eight feet, the ter-
mination of the railway may rise ten feet to allow the vessels to lie
along-side to receive the coals and lime, &c. brought down in the
waggons; it continues to rise occasionally throughout its course to
the loch of Gartinqueen. This railway is mostly single, and has a
great trade in coals, and is beginning and will continue progressively
to be profitable. The Garnkirk and Glasgow railway skirts the south
side of the parish for about five miles. It is altogether double, and
was formed at the cost of about L. 12,000 per mile. It was open-
ed in 1831. It has some deep excavations and high embankments.
It has not yet begun to pay, and it cannot be conjectured when it
will do so.
	Besides these public turnpikes and railways and the canal, we
have at least thirty-five miles of parish roads; for making and repair-
ing of which, upwards of L. 10 per mile annually have been raised
and are said to have been expended, for about twenty years; and
yet the roads are in many places scarcely passable. The lines are
bad, circuitous and hilly, their width is not regular, and they are
not managed as the act directs.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated about four
milds from the westmost houses, and nine miles from the eastmost.
It was built in 1829-30, and opened on the 5th September
1830. It is considered particularly neat and commodious, slightly
Gothic, with a neat square tower. It contains 740 sittings at 18
inches to a sitter, and cost fully L. 2000. On sacramental occa-
sions, 1000 persons are seated in it, while hundreds stand. There
are no free sittings. There have been many benefactions left to
the parish; but they have disappeared when no session records.


