
                              KILMUIR EASTER.                          311

      and taught to consider it as degrading.  Some who receive occa-
      sional assistance are not enrolled in the list of paupers.
         Inns.--There are 2 inns, and 4 public-houses.  Intemperance
      is not, however, a prevalent vice in the parish, and it is very rare-
      ly that the people are known to quarrel or fight.
         Fuel.--Coals are generally used in the lower, and peats in the
      higher, district of the parish.  Coals generally sell for 1s. 1d. im-
      perial barrel, and peats for 1s. the cart.  The coals come from
      Newcastle, and there is abundance of moss in the parish.
                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
         1st, When the last Statistical Account of this parish was written,
      the real rent did not much exceed L. 1400 Sterling; now it is L. 3800
      Sterling.  The manufacture of kelp and shell-lime have been al-
      together discontinued, and lime and bone manure are generally in
      use.  Within the last eighteen months, a toll-bar has been erect-
      ed at the bridge of Pollo.  Instead of there being upwards of 30
      tippling houses in the parish, there are now only 2 inns, and four
      public-houses.  All the agricultural implements now used are of
      the most approved kind, and oxen are never employed in plough-
      ing.  Wheat is generally grown on all the farms in the parish,
      and is found to afford a good remunerating price.  The roads
      which intersect the parish, are kept in good condition.  In the up-
      per district, and especially in the environs of Kindace, great im-
      provements have been effected of late years.  There are now four
      public roads in the parish, running parallel to each other, includ-
      ing the new road lately constructed along the upper district, and
      reaching from Tain to the policy of Novar, in the parish of Alness.
      The harbour of Balintraid, in the south-west end of the parirh,
      has likewise been erected since the last Statistical Account was
      published.
         2d, With respect to the improvements of which the pa-
      rish is susceptible.  It has been already observed, that the
      system of husbandry pursued is of the most approved kind, and
      that the means of internal conveyance are excellent.  Much,
      however, remains to be done, in this, as in most other pa-
      rishes, to advance the inhabitants to the maximum state of com-
      fort and happiness.  We have no desire to advocate any Utopian
      theory on this most important subject, but merely to suggest some
      hints for those substantial and sober improvements which might
      meliorate the condition of the people.  If any thing could be
      done to give employment to the numerous and increasing set-



