
352                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

loch, as Bishop of Ross, and states that it bad been "dedicated
to the most holy Mary, and the blessed Boniface, anno Domyny,
1460." In the direction of the main body of the cathedral, at
the east, and detached from its remains, stands a building that was
probably the vestry. It contains a vault below, with a strong arch-
ed roof, now converted into a prison; and the upper part of it is
used as the town-house and council-chamber of the burgh.
   St Boniface appears to have been, by every ancient monument,
the favourite saint and patron of the place, and his history, accord-
ing to tradition, is simply tbis. In the year 693 or, according to
others, about the year 697, Boniface, an Italian, a grave and ve-
nerable person, came to Scotland to make up our acquaintance
with the Church of Rome. He built to the memory of St Peter
a church where he landed, at the mouth of a little water, betwixt
the shires of Angus and Mearns; erected another church at Felin,
a third at Restennotb, and a fourth at Rosemarkie; where, being
taken with the pleasantness of the place, he thought fit to reside,
and was buried there.  Bishop Leslie speaks of Rosemarkie as
decorated with the relics of the saint, and the very ancient se-
pulchres and monuments of him and his parents: whence it would
seem that be had brought his parents from Italy with him in this
piolis expedition.
   From this traditional account of St Boniface, it would appear
that the parish church in the ancient town of Rosemarkie had its
foundation laid by him. In repairing it anno 1735, in a vault un-
der a very ancient steeple, there were found some stone coffins of
rude workmanship, one of which might probably contain the bones
of this venerable apostle. To perpetuate his memory we have
here an annual market, called St Boniface Fair; and a spring of
excellent water is also distinguished by his name. Nay, what is
still more, the seal of the cathedral, or Diocesan Seal, is yet pre-
served, and used as the public seal of the burgh, with this inscrip-
tion in Saxon characters: "+ Scapituli sco4 Petri et Bonefacii de
Rosomarkin." St Peter stands on it with his keys, and Boniface
with his, crook, in excellent order.
   The seal of the ancient burgh of Rosemarkie, which is also in
good preservation, has inscribed on it the figure apparently of St
Peter, mitred in a shield, with the circumscription I.  + . SIGIL-
LVM IES MVNE BVRGI DE ROSMARKYN.
   In the churchyard here, too, lies, the  body of Andrew Murray
a very brave man, Regent of the kingdom in the reign of David II,


