
                           LIVINGSTONE.                       119

wise fonr feet in thickness; but the working of the coal and lime-
stone have been given up for a number of years, the dip being so
great as to make it unproductive.
   Manufactures.-There is a cotton spinning-mill at Blackburn,
which employs about 120 men, women, and children above ten
years of age.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   There is no market-town in the parish. The nearest is Mid-
Calder, at the distance of two miles. There are two villages Li-
vingstone in the east, and Blackburn in the west of the parish.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated on the border of
Mid-Calder, about half a-mile from the eastern extremity of Li-
vingstone parish. It is very inconveniently situate for at least
three-fourths of the population. The church was rebuilt in 1732,
and is in very tolerable repair. It affords accommodation for about
300 people. The only free sittings are at the communion-table,
which remains standing along the length of the church.
   The manse was built in 1803, at the accession of the present
incumbent, and, being substantially built, has since received only
trifling repairs. The glebe consists of six acres of land, valued at
L. 3 per acre. The amount of stipend, as allocated by the Teind
Court, is 10 bolls bear, and 23 bolls meal, and L. 188, 5s. 1 1/2 d.;
but, owing to some part of the teind being claimed by Whitburn,
formerly a part of this parish, the stipend is not fully paid be-
   There is a Dissenting chapel in the village of Blackburn, be-
longing to the Independent persuasion. The minister is paid from
the seat-rents and collections at the door. It is but thinly attend-
ed, and is believed to have only 11 joined members.
   Three hundred and fourteen males, and 322 females, are con-
sidered as belonging to the Established Church. The number
regularly attending is too fluctuating to be exactly ascertained.
   One hundred and eighty-nine males, and 180 females, belong
to the United Secession; 4 males, and 5 females, to the Church
of England; 9 males, and 12 females, to the Church of Rome.
160 is the average number of communicants, in the parish church.
   Education.-Number of schools, 2; 1 parochial find 1 unendow-
ed. The parochial teacher has the maximum salary with the legal
accommodations of dwelling-house, school-house, and garden.
   A Sabbath school and parish library was set on foot in the vil-
lage of Livingstone four years ago. It consists of nearly 300 well
selected volumes, and is supported by subscription, and much
prized by the population.



