
366                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

give it a fair trial, and it has gone on increasing gradually and
steadily,  Last season 262 boats were employed, and upwards of
40,000 barrels of herrings were caught.  It is supposed that Pe-
terhead, being farther east than any other point in Scotland, must
at all times be one of the best stations for carrying on the herring
fishery, as, if the fish pass along the coast, they must pass very
near to this headland; and as the tides are strong, the best fish
can only make head against them.  In point of fact, the curers
acknowledge that the herrings caught at Peterhead are of supe-
rior quality.
   The shoals of herrings are followed by spout whales, and an
attempt, not without success, was last season made to catch these
whales.  The necessary apparatus was invented by Mr Robert
Hutchison of this place; and there remains little doubt that, in
the present season, he will be able to establish the practicability of
whale fishing on our own shores; and thus introduce a trade which
may be ofno small consequence to the country.  Mr Hutchison's
object is to kill the large finners.  Last season he succeeded in
killing three; but in consequence of their having sunkm, he after-
wards lost them.  When they had lain some time at the bottom,
they again floated, in consequence of the expansion of gases gene-
rated in them, and were afterwards found.  He thinks, however,
that this season he will be able to keep hold of them by the lines.
The cod, ling, haddock, and whiting, are to be found in great
abundance on this coast, and are caught and exported in their
seasons.  Besides these, flounders of all kinds, roughback, plaise,
sole, halibut, turbot, skate, dog, and catfish, and a great variety
of others, including the lobster, mackerel, and crab are to be found.
All these afford ample means for the extension of the white fish-
ery, and a mine of wealth yet remains to be explored as a reward
to the exertions of those who may embark in the fisheries at Peter-
head.
   Manufactures.-There are no extensive manufactures of woollen
or cotton goods in Peterhead; there are, however, experienced
and well employed tradesmen and mechanics in every department
usually found in larger towns.  It is to be regretted that manufac-
tures have not hitherto been introduced.  Peterhead seems well
adapted for such establishments; for although there are not
sufficient waterfalls near the town, there are such in the parish,
There is a sufficient quantity of water in the town for working by
steam, and the harbour afford facilities for exporting and import-


