
544             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

tance of about sixteen miles. It is cut off entirely from the Ayrshire
field by the whin which extends from Beith to Stanley, but forms two
very narrow stripes or necks at Castle Semple and How-wood, and
the village of Neilston and Head of Side.  From these two points
the coal-field is about ten miles broad, and in the middle between
Stanley and the Clyde only six or seven.  To give a general idea
of its extent and limits, it extends from near Bishopton till near
the source of the Black Cart, and from thence in an undulating
line till a point a little north of Mearns Kirk, and then keeps
the boundaries of the shire northward to the Clyde. Beyond these
limits, there is no coal in Renfrewshire.  There is one peculiarity
in the coal-fields of this extensive district, viz. in the trap-beds
which in many instances overlie the coals, especially towards the
south-western wing of the coal-field. This peculiarity is more appa-
rent here than in most other districts, particularly in the Johnstone
coal-field. This has not escaped the notice of MM. Defrenoy and
Elie de Beaumont in the " Voyage Metallurgique en Angleterre."
Mr Bald, in the " Memoirs of the Wernerian Natural History So-
ciety," Vol. iii. p. 137, says, " We can only remark here, that in the
Johnstone coal-field the upper stratum of rock is compact green-
stone, above 100 feet in thickness, not in conforming position with
the coals, but over-lying; then a few fathoms of soft sandstone and
slate-clay, alternating and uncommonly soft." Under this in one
place there are no fewer than two beds of coal lying immediately the
one above the other. There are also ten beds of coal at the bottom
of the limestone series at Ponfeich in Clydesdale; a strong proof
that these are the same coals edging out at the north and south
sides of the same great coal-field. Mr Bald gives two sections of
the Quarrelton coal in the work above quoted, to which we refer,
and also two vertical sections of the same field. The occurrence
of greenstone in the coal-measures was some forty years ago look-
ed upon as an extraordinary circumstance, so much so that some
geologists were inclined, from an appearance so unexpected, to in-
clude the whole series of strata that accompanied these beds under
the floetz-trap formation of Werner. At the kirk of Shotts,
coal is found below trap; it is plentifully mixed up with the
coal measures in some parts of the New Monkland coal-field; and
limestone is wrought below it near Kilmarnock. The descriptions
of the various collieries in this county will be found under the ac-
counts of the several parishes. We particularly refer to the ar-
ticle Paisley, for some very interesting and valuable information on
this subject.


