
       		       LISMORE AND APPIN.                  245

Since 1831, however, the population of Lismore has decreased to
1430 souls, owing to emigration, while the population of Appin
remained stationary.
   There is no register of burials kept.

<TABLE>
	The average number of persons under 15 years of age, is     .  1600
                                    between 15 and 30,            .  1200
                                            30 and 50,            .  1008
                                            50 and 70,            .   485
                                    upwards of 70,                .    88

   The number of landed proprietors having more than L. 50 a-
year, 16.  Average number of children in each family, 6.  Num-
ber of fatuous persons in the parish, 5.
   The language generally spoken is Gaelic, and there are many
of the natives who understand no other, particularly those who
are somewhat advanced in years.
   Marriage ceremonies are always performed in the church, par-
ticularly in Lismore; and the only music that is used, either at,
weddings or balls, is that of the bagpipe.  The violin is used in
Appin and Kingerloch on such occasions.  Baptism is also gene-,
rally administered in the church, but not always on Sabbath, that
salutary practice being yet only partially introduced.  The child is
brought to the church on week-days; and there is this peculiarity,
that, whereas in most other places there is only one godfather
and godmother, in Lismore every person that is present, when
it is done on a week-day, stands in that relation to the child.
The father goes round the company with the child, dipping, it
upon their arms as he passes along, and then they are all qoistidhs,
i. e. godfathers and godmothers, together.  There are 1430 peo-
ple in Lismore, and these are so closely connected by blood rela-
tionsbip and intermarriage, that they are all near, relations to one
another.   A Lismore man seldom takes a wife from any other
place; but although as a body, they are relations and friendly to
one another, yet there is a remnant of ancient feudalisma still lin-
gering among them.  Every sept or clan, stands by itself, to sup-
port one another against any other sept or clan that may wish
to encounter them; but, although they sometimes in this way
quarrel at home, yet when abroad at markets they are very faithful,
to one another, and woe betide the unfortunate stranger who may,
attempt to in the least of them.  The same customs prevail in
Appin as in Lismore.


