
     of Slains.

generally high, and indented in a strange manner, with im-
mense and horrible charms.  The fish caught on this coast,
are sold at the following prices, upon an average, viz. ling,
1 s. 2 d.; cod, 6 d.; hollyback, (in this country called tur-
bot,) 1 s.; scale, 6 d.; turbot, (in this country called the
Rodden Sleuck,) 6 d; sole and silver sleucks, 6 d; each;
plaise and slounder ditto, 1 1\2 d. per dozen; whitings, 1 d.;
seaths, 2 d.; sea dogs, 5 d; haddocks from 1 d. to 2 s. per
dozen; mackerels and herrings, is bought for, but only plen-
tiful occasionally; partans and lobsters about Lammas, but
few, and seldom sought at any other time.  From the end
of January, to the middle of April, haddocks, cod, and ling,
are thin; through the rest of the year good, and commonly
plentiful, though the last 4 years they were uncommonly
scarce, but the haddocks unusually large.  Scate, and all
kinds of flounders, are always in season.  Dog-fish only yield
oil worth the trouble from the middle of July to the end of
August.  All the above, except the partans and lobsters,
are taken with lines, baited with mussels and lug, which are
found in the bed of the Ytham at low tides, for nearly two
English miles above the sea*.  The women are generally

<FOOTNOTE>

*wing to large beds of sand, which have encroahed from the sea, along
the shore where the ware grew.  The tides flow from N. E. to S. W.
and ebb from S. W. to N. E. on the shore, exactly 6 miles out: and
upwards they flow more southerly.

*It is only about 15 years since the fishermen paid any thing for
this bait.  At first they paid only 5 s. yearly, each; now every man
that goes to sea pays 20 s. a-year for liberty to gather it.  As they
are allowed to gather only on their own side of the water, and mus-
cles within their reach are sometimes scarce, they are, on such occasions,
obliged to buy them at 6 d. the peck, from the tacksmen of the water.
They have also about 3 English miles to carry them on their backs in
fish creels; which makes their bait dear enough, though they paid no-


