
572                         ARGYLESHTRE.

scape beauty and interest. At the entrance to Loch Eck at
the southern extremity, the boundaries of this valley on either
side combine to form one of the grandest scenes to be met with
in the Highlands of Scotlatid. The rocky and shattered face of
the mountain range on the eastern side present to the imagene.
tion the appearance of some huge interminable Babel-like ruin,
its summit retreating and lost in the distance; while on the west-
ern side of this entrance, the eye is constrained also to rest in turn
on the very striking appearance of hill and Comes, forming tHe
dark and mysterious recesses of Coire-an-ti.
     Glenfinart may next be mentioned, taking its coi-nmencement at
Ardentinny from the western shore of Loch Long, running in a west-
erly direction between the first and second mountain ranges already
described, to thb extent of upwards of three miles in length, till niet
by a hill barrier secondary in height to the two side boundaries-
this range separating it from Loch Eck and the valley of the Each-
aig. This glen is, like the valley last described, well wooded both
by copsewood and planting, and embraces a considerable space -of
level ground as its base, increasing in width toward the sea-coast,
and is now undergoing the highest improvement in the hands of
its present proprietor. Both the valleys now described are in the
bounds of the parish of Kilaiun proper, which also embraces the
third falling to be mentioned,-Glenmassan. This opens frorn
the western side of the valley of the Eachaig, about two miles
from Kilmun, running almost at rioht angles with that vallev and
continuing its course westward, bounded on either side by the
third and fourth mountain ranges mentioned ; at first narrowing
into a gorge aboiit two miles from its entrance, and then expand-
ing its Alpine bosom into a very uncommon and well-defined level
flat of arable alluvial soil many acres in extent, it is seen closely bar-
riered at its upland extremity by the transverse range of the hills of
Garachra. When thickly wooded on both sides, as thhs glen ap-
pears to have been, according to Highland song and tradition, and
indeed on one side to a comparatively recent date, as is quite appa-
reut, Glenmassan must have formed a singularly romantic and se-
cure Highland fastness, the very birth-place of song and romance.
Towards Dunoon from the glen last mentioned, and separated
from it by the fourth mountain range mentioned formerly, com-
mences Glenlean, from the western side of the Holy Loch, at its
extremity inland, running nearly parallel with Glenmassan, and
extending nearly six. miles from its entrance ; it mingles the dis-
tinctions between a glen and a valley, and narrowing at its inland
extremity, brings 'the traveller along an excellent road abruptly


