
			DUNNOTTAR.                       221

ence of the elements, for now more than 100 years, it has yet suf-
fered wonderfully little dilapidation, and its strength and durabi-
lity having been such that it has so well withstood decay since the
days of Wallace, it may well enough be conceived that it had ex-
isted for ages before his time. This castle was one of the more
considerable of the fortresses of Scotland, and is supposed to have
been, before the use of artillery, altogether impregnable. So late
as 1651, it held out, with but "a scanty garrison," for the period
of six months, against a body of Cromwell's troops, and it was
only after the siege had been turned into a blockade, and when
pressed by famine and mutiny, that Ogilvy, the governor, was in
duced to capitulate. In former times, it had frequently changed
hands, by what means does not particularly appear, unless that,
when it was carried by Wallace, it is said to have been by surprise.
To this day, the name of Wallace, it is attacbed to an aperture near
the great tower, through which he himself is said to have gained
the interior, and by that means opened the gate to his followers.
The family of Marischal is understood to have taken its rise from
a well known incident--the slaying of the Danish General Comus,
by a young nobleman of the name of Keith, whom the second
King Malcolm rewarded for his valour, by bestowing upon him
certain lands in Lothian, with the title of Great Marischal of Scot-
land. The date of that event is the year 1010; and subsequently,
but at what particular period does not appear, the castle with the
whole parish of Dunnottar came into possession of the Marischal
family. By the accession of George, the last Earl Marischal, to
the rebellion of 1715, the title and extensive estates of the family
were forfeited, and the castle, which, about thirty years before had
been purchased by government, was completely dismantled. The
placing of the Regalia of Scotland in Dunnottar castle during the
Commonwealth, and their having, before the castle was surrendered
to Cromwell's General, been conveyed away and secreted under the
intrepid and ingenious management of Mrs Ogilvy, the governor's
lady, and Mrs Granger, the wife of the parson of Kinneff, are facts
too generally known to require particular mention. Neither, as it is
matter detailed in history, is it necessary to do more than allude to
the imprisonment here, in 1685, of the Covenanters, who, to the num-
her of 167 men, women, and children, were confined in one dun-
geon, still known by the name of the Whig's vault, where they suf-
fered the greatest tortures under Keith of Whiterigs, at that time
governor of the castle. In the church-yard of the parish, a plain


