
                              ABERDEEN.                         43

and practice of the duties of their office, has been for some time
strongly and generally felt, And in 1835, the General Assembly's
Education Committee, in their report dwelt at considerable length
on the benefit to be expected from such institutioins.  The As-
sembly approved of the views taken by their Committee, and ac-
quiesced in their recommendation of Aberdeen as a suitable place
for the establishment of a normal school.  In April 1836, a pub-
lic meeting was held in Aberdeen, at which it was resolved to erect
a school of this description in the town, and a committee was ap-
pointed for the purpose of carrying this resolution into effect.  Se-
veral of the neighbouring counties, as well as the Presbytery of
Aberdeen, nominated committees to co-operate with this one, and
the Trustees of Dick's bequest have expressed their strong appro-
bation of such an institution, and their desire to assist the other
bodies in securing for the North of Scotland the benefits that
might be expected to arise from it.  The expectation, that the
Committee of the House of Commons on Education in Scotland
will take up the subject of normal schools, and the hope that
Government may make some acceptable proposal for their esta-
blishment, with other causes of a less general nature, have hither-
to retarded the operations of these committees ; but there is every
reason to expect, that in no long time a normal school will be
established in Aberdeen.
   Grammar School.-The history of this school can be traced
back as far at least as 1418, when Andrew de Syves, Vicar of Ber-
vie, who had been master of the school for some years, died.
Little is known about it, however, at this early period.  In 1479,
the salary attached to the office was L. 5 Scots.  About fifty
years after, it was raised to 10 marks, and certain perquisites were
also allowed to the master.  Twenty years later, the salary was
fixed at 50 marks, and 2s. quarterly assigned as the fee of each
scholar.  In 1670, the rector, or head master, had 600 marks,
and there were under him three ushers, each of whom had 200
marks and the fees arising from his own class, the rate of payment
being at this time 13s. 4d. quarterly.  The number and status of
the teachers continue the same at present; the fees are 10s. 6d.
quarterly, and the salaries are L. 90 to the rector, and L. 45 to
each of the ushers.
   The funds from which these salaries are provided, arise from
benefactions bequeathed at various times for the purpose-the
most important of which was by Dr Patrick Dun, Principal of

