
     Statistical Account of the

end, are introduced to Homer and some of the other posts.
Along with their reading, they are sometimes exercised in
making translations of easy passages from the Greek, into
Latin and English, in which the idioms of the several lan-
guages are compared and pointed out, and the scholar there-
by acquires a more familiar acquaintance with the structure
and peculiarities of each.
   2. The subjects to which the attention of the students is
principally directed in the next class, are history, civil and
natural, along with Latin literature.  The study of natural
and civil history is judged to be a just intermediate step be-
tween the study of languages, and general reasonings concern-
ing things.  History conveys to a young mind instructions
adapted to its faculties, which at the same time open and pre-
pare it gradually for apprehending the conclusions of philoso-
phy, that branch of science which can only be improved in
proportion as history is perfected.  Our knowledge in the
one and the other must keep pace, for history relates the
phenomena, and philosophy explains and accounts for them.
The study of history therefore, particularly natural history,
must be proper to precede that of philosophy, not only as if
opens the mind, but also as it furnishes it with the requisite
materials.  As there are not separate appointments for these
branches of education, the same professor lectures on history,
and illustrates the classics at different hours.  Impressed with
a sense of the great importance of classical learning, he em-
ploys six meetings a week in illustrating the Latin classics.
The students also continue to read Greek in the second class
occasionally during the session. 1. in the classical department,
the professor begins with a brief course of lectures and illus-
trations on ancient and modern versification, and points out
those circumstances which distinguish the ancient verse from
the modern.  Of these discourses the students receive a print-


