
				LARGS.			789

healthy. Those who reside in the town being generally weavers,
and thefemales chiefly engaged in sewing muslin, and other se-
dentary employments, are liable to the complaints and deteriora-
tion of health incident to such occupations. These are, however,
partly counteracted by cultivating patches of potato ground, sail-
ing, fishing, &c. in which many of them occasionally engage.
    Largs has long been in high repute as a watering-place. From
the end of May till the middle of October, there is an additional
population, varying from 300 or 400 to upwards of 1000. Few
places afford greater facilities for sea-bathing, it being easily prac
ticable to bathe at all times of the tide, and to obtain a proper
depth by wading a few yards. The whole coast is perfectly safe.
The sea-breezes are of a peculiarly bracing and invigorating charac-
ter, and their salutary effects evident on crowds of annual visitors
from the densely peopled towns of the interior. Although showers
often fall, the whole plain on which Largs stands is singularly dry,
from the pure gravel which forms the subsoil speedily absorbing
the water, and rendering our roads and walks dry and pleasant a
few hours after the heaviest rain.
	From the keenness of the easterly winds in winter and spring,
it may be doubted whether the climate of Largs is well adapted
for patients liable to spitting of blood, or inflammatory affections
of the lungs. In such cases, Rothsay is preferable. Yet phthisis
is not a disease of frequent occurrence in Largs, the deaths from it
seldom exceeding three or four annually. In some consumptive
cases, when there is little tendency to inflammation or hemorrhage,
the writer of this has seen decided amendment from a residence
in Largs. Croup in some seasons has prevailed to some extent; but
for several years past, it has been of rare occurrence.
	No instance of wonderful longevity exists at present in the pa-
rish, but the number of persons betwixt the ages of seventy and
ninety-three is very considerable.
	Hydrography.--There are only two rivers in the parish which
call for notice, the Gogo and the Noddle. The former rises in
the south-east part of the parish, and falls into the sea at the town
of Largs. The word is said to be Celtic, and signifies a branching
river. It has accordingly various branches and tributaries, and its
water is considerably augmented by that of the Greeto, which
joins it about the middle of its course. The Noddle takes its
rise in the north-east of the parish, and, after winding its way
through the vale of Brisbane, falls into the sea about half a mile


