
344                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

by sixteen most elegant Gothic pillars, seven on each side of the
building, and two at the east end of it.  The height of the chapel
inside, from the floor to the top of the high-arched roof, is 40 feet
8 inches; its length is 69 feet; and its breadth is 34 feet 8 inches.
   The floor of the east chapel is elevated one step; and its arched
roof is only 15 feet in height.  Here stood four altars, viz. one
which is elevated two steps from the floor of the east chapel, and
which seems to be improperly called the high altar, having more
probably been dedicated to the Virgin Mary; and other three al-
tars on the floor of this chapel, which were dedicated respectively
to St Matthew, St Peter, and St Andrew.  The top stones of
these four altars have been removed, but the bodies of them re-
main, in a great measure, entire,--the very state in which they
are described as being, about 250 years ago, in the records of the
Presbytery of Dalkeith.
   The east chapel is separated from the eastern aisle by three
pillars, which are connected by arches with the east wall, dividing
the roof into four equal spaces.  The groinings of the ceiling are
of surprising grandeur and elegance, and the florid character of
their ornaments is infinitely varied.  The keystones of the arches
are beautiful pendants, each upwards of two feet in length; that
at the south end, immediately above what has been called the high
altar, but which is rather to be considered as the altar dedicated
to the Virgin Mary, is ornamented with foliage.  The second pen-
dant is enriched in a similar manner.  Immediately below this
pendant, the late Earl of Rosslyn, who died in 1837, is interred.
The escutcheon of his armorial bearings is suspended above; and
his remains, like those of his countess, are covered with a large
flag stone. The third pendant terminates in a representation of
the star of Bethlehem, with eight figures carved around it.  At
the south point of the star is the Virgin, with the Babe in her arms;
on the next point, to her right, is the manger; on other three
points are three eastern kings, each having a sceptre in his hand;
and on the remaining three points are representations of Death.
Immediately below this pendant, the late Countess of Rosslyn
(Miss Bouverie) is interred.  The fourth pendant is ornamented
with foliage.
   On the side of one of the arches, springing from the angle
formed by the north and the east walls, and resting on the oppo-
site pillar, there are several small figures, which were supposed to
represent the resurrection, but they are now believed to be the


