
		PARISH OF GLENURCHY & INISHAIL.

              PRESBYTERY OF LORN, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

               THE REV. DUNCAN MACLEAN, MINISTER.


          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Names.--THE parish of Glenurchy,--so called from the valley
in which it chiefly lies, and the river which flows through it,--was
of old known by the name of Clachan an disart. The valley it-
self takes its name from the river Urchay, which, issuing from
a small lake in the braes or upland part of the parish, traverses a
great part of it; and, after a run of sixteen miles, empties itself in
Lochawe, close to the ruins of Caolchurn Castle. The parish still
retains its anbient name in all ecclesiastical deeds and records.
All the minutes of session are uniformly dated at Clachan an
disart. The name, as stated in the former report, signifies the temple
or sanctuary of the Supreme Being. Tradition alleges, that Druid-
ism, of old, occupied the spot on which the church now stands;
that her clachan or circle of stones stood, and that her detestable
mysteries were celebrated, on the hallowed spot whither the mul-
titudes now go up to worship the God and Father of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ.
   Inishail, the conjoined parish, derives its appellation from an
island of the same name in Lochawe, and on which stood the pa-
rish church, from the Reformation till the year 1736, when it was
transferred to its present site. The ruins of the old church are still
visible, as are those of a nunnery said to have been of the Cister-
tian order. Close by these interesting ruins lies a burying ground,
on which some of the grave stones furnish beautiful specimens of
ancient sculpture. Inishail, according to some, signifies the beauti-
ful island, and is so called on account of its superiority in this re-
spect to the neighbouring islands. According to others, it signifies
the Island of St Paul, because it was, as is supposed, dedicated,
with the religious establishment that stood upon it, to that distin-
guished apostle,--in contradistinction to the island of Inisbdruinich,


