
            164                         ELGINSHIRE.

            tory of this parish, but there can be no doubt that Forres was a
            place of considerable importance at a very remote period. Some
            ancient writers suppose it to have been the Varis of Ptolemy.
            King Duffus, when residing in the castle, was treacherously mur-
            dered by the governor in 966. We learn from some early histo-
            rians, that the  "gracious" King Duncan had his camp at Forres,
            and that it was when proceeding to join him there, that Macbeth
            and Banquo were met by the Weird Sisters. There is evidence extant
            that, at subsequent periods, this castle was occupied by our Scottish
            Monarchs. The writer of this has seen an original charter of some
            lands in the neighbourbood, granted here by Alexander II.
            It is not exactly known when the town first enjoyed the privileges
            of a royal burgh; the oldest charter now possessed by it is one de
            novodamus, granted by James IV., dated 23d June 1496, and
            which bears that "the ancient charters of the burgh had been
            destroyed by fire and other accidents, and therefore the king of
            new erects it into a royal burgh."
              A plan of the town was published in Wood's Town Atlas, in
            1825.
              The town is built on a low ridge of ground, which stretches from
            the base of the Cloven hills, and is elevated about forty or fifty feet
            above the adjoining plain. The main street extends more than
            balf-a-mile from east to west, and has declivities on each side, on
            which minor streets or lanes branch off and communicate with the
            country. The streets are well paved and lighted with gas; and
            the town presents, on the whole, a remarkably neat and clean ap-
            pearance. In the principal street, are several handsome houses
            and public buildings. In the centre, is the town-house, a very
            beautiful edifice, completed in 1839, and built on the site of the
            former tolbooth. It is a Gothic structure, having a square tower
            on one side, with a bartizan, on which is raised another of octa-
            gonal shape, surmounted by a dome and vane. It contains a
            spacious court-house, and other accommodation for the Sheriff and
            Justice of Peace small debt courts, which are regularly held here,
            besides a council-chamber, a record-room, the post-office, and
            business apartments for the town-clerk. The tower and dome
            are much admired for the beauty of their proportions, and form a
            great ornament to the town and neighbourhood. The parish
            church is a large plain building, and stands on the north side of
            the street, near the west end. A small Episcopal chapel, the in-
            terior of which is very elegantly fitted up, was erected last year
                                          3


