
			EDDERTOUN.                          435

acres not worth a penny per annum, wbich if cultivated would pay
to the proprietor at least five per cent. immediately, and at no dis-
tant period ten per cent., for outlays judiciously made.  The third
and highest ledge contains in many parts, especially at Ramore
(Ralth-mor, the great circle or enclosure,) and Little Daan,
(Daan-Bheag, the smaller of the two flats or lower grounds,) better
soil for cultivation; but from its altitude there is such a difference
of climate, that it is exposed in no ordinary degree to all the evils
of late springs and uncertain harvests.  In the years 1837 and
1888 the tenants there lost almost all their potato crop, and their
oats were unproductive..
  From the summit of each of the hills mentioned above, the view
in clear weather is very extensive, picturesque, and interesting.
The bill of Struie being most accessible from the public road is fre-
quently ascended for this purpose, and from a pinnacle called the
Lady's Seat, considerable portions of nine counties are within the
range of an ordinary telescope.  Beyond Struie, towards Kincar-
dine, lies the beautiful and romantic valley of the Fearns; the
hills of Corryfearn, (Coire-fearna, the glen of the alder tree);
Cnoc-lagan, (the hill of ravines or hollows); and Garvary, (Garbh-
'Airidh, the coarse bill pasturage), on the summit of which last
the parish terminates in that direction; and as these bills rise in
some parts almost abruptly from the road, the effect is more im-
posing and impressive.
  The shore is sandy, excepting where the Struie hill descends to
the water's edge, and there it is rocky. Cambuscurry Bay, where a
Danish invading fleet once anchored, is now not above a fathom
deep at high water; and possibly the extent of land recoverable
would compensate forthe expense of shutting out the sea altogether.
An enterprising gentleman, whose improvements in roads, cultiva-
tions &c. are well known, and who possesses extensive estates in
the county-Mr Ross of Cromarty-it is understood, proposed to
undertake this task, if the other neighbouring proprietors would
co-operate.
  Meteorology.-In summer Fahrenbeit's tberwometer averages
from 57&deg; to 70&deg;, and in winter from 36d to 46&deg;; but in frost, the
range is from 20&deg; to 32&deg;. It has occasionally, though very rarely,
been as low as 12&deg;, and in February 1837, at eleven P. M., it ac-
tually fell to 6&deg;. The general range of the barometer is betwixt
28.5 and 30.5, so that the average may be stated 9t 29.5. It has


