
448                         LANARKSHIRE.

were observed afterwards, to give a mourful and angry cry, and
to make a sudden deviation from their course, turning away with
seeming disgust, from a place where they had been so hardly treated.
Ardea stellaris or bittern, one shot here lately.
	The following are the only fish found in the Clyde and Calder,
1. Petromyzon fluviatilis or river lamprey, here called lamper-eel.
We should doubt its going down regularly to the sea, as it has
many obstacles to encounter, which seem to be too great for it
to overcome, yet it is by no means rare in these waters. 2. Salmo
Salar or common salmon. 3. Salmo truffa or sea trout, very rare
4. Salmo Salvelinus, torgoch or char. This fish was taken, upwards;
of a century ago, from an alpine lake by Anne Duchess of Hamilton,
and naturalized in the Pamilian and Avon near Strathaven, from
which it occasionally descends to the Clyde. It is here termed
Duchess Anne's trout. 5. Salmo fario or common trout, abundant.
6. Esox Lucius, or common pike, abundant in still water. 7. Leucis-
cus rutilus or roach, but there generally termed braize,--is rather a
rare fish, and is chiefly caught in May. It is supposed by some
that it comes into the Clyde from Lochlomond, when the general
migration occurs, about the beginning of summer; but as there
are obstacles in the Clyde which prevent larger fish from getting
up here, we cannot see how so small a fish could overcome these
difficulties. 8. Leuciscus phoxinus or minnow, very common.
9. Cobitis barbatula, loach or beardy, more common on the rocky
bed of the Avon than in the Clyde. It lies basking in the sun at
the bottom of rivers, and readily suffers itself to be taken by what
the boys term a sned, i. e. two or three horse hairs plaited to-
gether, and fastened to the end of a wand, in the form of a loop,
which is slipped over the fish's head and suddenly drawn up; vast
quantities are thus destroyed, but are not eaten. 10. Platessa
Flesus, flounder. It is most common below the dam at Blantyre,
but has also been occasionally found here. 11. Anguilla vulgaris,
or common eel, very abundant. l2. Perca fluviatilis or perch,
occasionally found here. The par also common.
	Botany.--The following is a list of the different plants: Circea
Lutetiana, enchanter's nightshade; Veronica Montana, mountain
speedwell; Phalaris Canariesis, canary grass; Milium effusum
millet grass; Galium borcale, broad-leaved bed-straw; Symphytum
officinale, common comfrey; Campanula trachelium, at Dalziel
House, but now extirpated; Epilobium angustifolium, rose-bay


