
552                            FIFESHIRE.

tentive subsoil. This part of the property was much improved,
by its late amiable, judicious, and justly esteemed proprietor, Major
Horsburgh. He trenched a considerable part of it; and one field,
where he was disappointed of the beneficial effects which be ex-
pected, he covered with clay, which he found under the surface,
which succeeded far beyond his most sanguine hopes.
  The only other estates within the parish, and which form its south-
west boundary, are Hill Cairnie, the property of Robert Russell,
Esq. and Myre Cairnie, belonging to Captain Pearson, R. N. Both
of these farms are cultivated by Mr Russell. They contain some
very strong land. Hill, Cairnie is known in the ndigbbourhood for
its deep red clay. It has also a considerable extent of meadow
ground, which is composed of sand, moss, and marl. This is all
drained, and contributes liberally to the barn-yard, or to the
feeditig byres. Both these farms lie near the town of Cupar, and
from it receive a great quantity of dung, in addition to what is pro-
duced upon themselves. They are thus highly cultivated and
fertile.
  From these observations, it is evident that Kilmany is a most
productive parish. From the well known excellence of its soil,
from the greater part of it being completely watered by the Mo-
tray, and its other small streams, from the excellence of the roads
which run through it, and from its nearness to good markets,-the
farms which compose it, have been long in great request by the
agriculturist. There are many offerers of skill, and of capital, for
every farm which comes into the market. On this account all the
farms are rented at their full value, and some of tbern above it.
If times were becoming worse than they now are, the rent promis-
ed for them could not be paid, without entrenching upon the ca-
pital of the tenants. Such a state of things would be deeply to
be deplored, not more for the sake of this industrious, and in every
way respectable class of men, than for the agricultural prosperity
the general good of the country.
  The valued rent of Kilmany is L.5327, 9s. 9d. Scots money;
real rent from L.8000 to L.9000 Sterling.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town-Means of Communication.-What is called the
village of Kilmany consists of the cottars' houses of the two farms of
the same name, with those of the wright, smith, shoemaker, weaver,
and beadle; and of a few more families. The market-town is
Cupar, which is distant from the centre of the parish betwixt four


