
                              MAYBOLE.                       359

eschape hell, for ever, nor the imprudent Abbot eschaped the fyre
for a cessone, as followes.
        'Efter that the Erle espyed repugnance, and that he culd not
come to his purpose be fair means, he comandit his coockis to pre-
pare the banquet. And so first, they fleed the scheip, that is, they
took of the Abbotis cleathes, even to his skyn: And nixt, they band
him to the chimlay, his leggis to the one end and his armes to the
uther; and so they began to bait the fyre, sometymes, to his but-
tockis, sometymes to his leggis, sometymes to his shulderis and
armes. And that the rost suld not burne, but that it might rost in
soppe, they spared not flambing with oyle. (Lord luik thou to sic
creweltie.) And that the crying of the miserable man suld not be
hard, they closed his mouth, that the voice myght be stopped. In
that torment they held the poore man, whill that oft-tymes be cry-
ed, 'for Godis sake to despatch him: for he had as mekle gold in
his awn purse, as wad buy poulder aneugh, to shorten his paine.'
The famous King of Carrick, and his coockes, perceiving the rost to
be aneugh, comandit it to be tane fra the fyre, and the Erle him-
self began the grace in this maner: "Benedicite Jesus, Maria!
You are the most obstinate man that ever I saw! Gif I had knowin

that ye had been so stubborne, I wold not for a thousand crownis
handled you so! I never did so to man befoir you.' And yet he
returned to the same practeis, within two days and cearsed not till
that he obteaned his formest purpose; that is, that he had gotten
all his pieces subscryvit, alsweil as ane half-rosted hand culd do it!"
	 It is impossible not to connect these events together, as alike in
dicative of the tottering state of Popery. Abbot Quentin would
have scorned the idea of defending his religion, if Knox had not
made him feel that it was sinking beneath his feet, and Cassilis
would not thus unjustly have assailed his successor if he had not
witnessed the decay of the faith which his property had been given
to support, and it hence happened in this as in many other cases,
that what zeal for religious liberty began, rapacity for the proper-
ty of the church completed. *
	I now turn to the state of society during this period, and am able,
from the history of the Kennedys and other sources, to produce
from the annals of the parish of Maybole, some of the most vivid
illustrations of these olden times. On the farm of west Enoch, a
short way from Lady Corse, and on the, south side of a small burn

<FOOTNOTE>See Bannatyne Journal in Mr Graham Dalyell's" Illusatrations of Scottish His-
tory," and Notes and Illustrations to the History of the Kennedys, &c.


