
382                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

  Hydrography. -A small rivulet, which takes its rise in the nor-
thern side of the Pentland Hills, and passes through the centre
of the pleasure-grounds of Duddhngston House, where it is re-
ceived in ponds to supply the flour-mills of Duddingston, empties
itself into the Frith of Forth at the west end of Portobello.
There is another small stream, called Brunstane-burn, which se.
parates Duddingston parish from Inveresk and Libberton on the
south, and flows into the Frith of Forth at the St Magdalene
Foundry near Fisherrow.
 There is an abundant supply of spring wells of the purest water
near Wester Duddingston. The wells, from which the inhabitants
of this village are supplied, have been found by chemical analysis,
nade by the late Dr Murray, lecturer on chemistry, to contain a
less proportion of earthy matter than any springs in the immediate
neighbourbood of Edinburgh. There is also a loch in this pa-
risb, lying at the south base of Arthur's Seat, and encompassed on
the east by the grounds of the Marquis of Abereorn, -a fine sheet
of water, covering a surface of twenty-five acres, and about half a
mile in circumference. -It has been considerably diminished of
late years, by draining on the west side, and deepening the out-
let; still it is nearly the third part of a mile in length. It is much
frequented, by the citizens of Edinburgh for the favourite amuse-
ments of curling and skating, when the season permits. It is sup-
plied with water by a small stream from the west, and by springs
from Arthur's Seat. There ir one chalybeate spring lately dis-
covered in the vicinity of the village of Joppa. During eigbt
months in the year south or west winds constantly prevail, and
during the other four months east or north winds, alternating
with north-west and south-west winds. The annual mean tem-
perature is 47 31, and the annual average fall of rain is twenty-
three inches.
  Geology.-This parish abounds in coal, and previous to the
year 1790, 270 workmen were in constant employment. At
that period, thirteen seams of coal had been discovered, and
partly brought upon the grounds of Duddingston, and several of
these seams were of a first-rate quality. The inclinations and
dips of the minerals were to the west, and nearly at an angle of
45 degrees from the horizon to the east, which always rendered
the working of the coal an extremely difficult and dangerous
process, and which, in the end, was the cause of these mines
being given up, as they could not be kept clear of water. When


