
660                       ARGYLESHIRE.

is the highest, and is celebrated for a severe engagement which
was fought there by the Macdonalds and Macleans, who, for se-
veral years, disputed the possession of the country. The Mac-
leans were beaten and pursued to the coast, where a number of
them were killed by the Macdonalds, and others of them were
drowned in attempting to reach an adjacent island, separated
from the main by a narrow channel. This was one of the last
bloody attempts made by the Macleans to recover the Island
of Islay from the Macdonalds, who continued for several years
afterwards in the undisturbed possession of it. Next in height to
Benvigory is M'Arthur's Head, a bold high headland at the en-
trance of the Sound of Islay. To the east of this hilly range,
there is a considerable extent of arable and pasture ground, which
is much intersected with rocky eminences. The valleys are very
fertile, and yield good crops of oats, barley, and potatoes. Upon
the northwest side of the hills, there is a considerable extent of
level land, which is very partially cultivated; but the present spi-
rited and enlightened proprietor intends to farm it out in suitable
divisions, from which we may expect, in the course of a few years,
to see splendid crops of oats and barley waving where little is now
to be seen but heath and fern. The valleys, with few exceptions,
run from east to west.
   Caverns.--There are many places along the coast, where caves
and fissures of various forms and dimensions are to be seen, but
none which merits any attention, with the exception of a large
basin Which was formed by some violent convulsion of nature, or
worn out of the rock by the boisterous waves of the Atlantic
Ocean. Its circumference is about 300 feet, and its depth from
150 to 200. The sea flows into it by two openings ; one of them
a splendid arch of considerable span, the other a narrow deep open
cut. Directly opposite to the arch is another cave of considerable
depth, from which the surge is thrown back with such violence
that it	is carried over the mouth of the basin to a considerable dis-
tance. The whole outline of this Part of the coast is peculiarly
grand.
   Coast.--The extent of the coast of this parish is fifty miles, in-
dependently of the curves which are formed by the innumerable
inlets with which the coast is indented. It is in general low and
rocky. Along the Mull of Oa, it is high and rugged.
   Bays.--'The principal bays are, Portellen, Lagamhulin, Loch-

                                 4


