
34                 CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

from the parish fund, and the remaining third by his Lordship.
Such a change as this had been contemplated many years ago,
while John Francis Earl of Mar was alive, who suggested to
the workmen, to make an additional weekly instalment to the then
existing fund. To this they agreed: the society is now begin-
ning to operate, and in a few years will be able to meet all the calls
arising from superannuated members.
   The Colliery Bailie Court or Court of Equity.--This is one of
the most singular and useful institutions in Scotland, and it is
doubtful if any other of the kind exists in Scotland, or perhaps in
Great Britain. Its history is as follows. About eighty years ago,
Lord Thomas Erskine was proprietor of the estate of Mar, and the
collieries. The workmen being then serfs or slaves, and grossly
ignorant, were living without comfort, and exceedingly degraded
in the scale of society. Quarrels frequently took place amongst
them; and the weak being oppressed and tyrannized over by the
strong, the former had recourse to the Bailie of the barony of Al-
loa for redress, who, by his commission, had ample powers to cor-
rect offenders, by fine or imprisonment. The business of the ba-
ron bailie thus became very great, and much loss of work arose
from the operatives attending from day to day at the Bailie Court.
Thomas Lord Erskine saw the evils of this system, and devised
a novel plan, which was to supersede the Bailie Court, so far as
regarded his colliers, and institute the Alloa Colliery Bailie Court,
or Court of Equity, which still exists, at the present day, in vigour
and usefulness.
  The constitution of the court was as follows:--His Lordship se-
lected five of the most reasonable and discreet of the colliers, and
nominated them bailies; one of the five he made president of the
Court, whom he named Head Bailie; one of the workmen who
could write, (and there were but few of them who could,) was ap-
pointed clerk; and the Court was completed by appointing an ac-
tive workman in the decline of life to be the officer, to attend on the
bailies, and give verbal summonses of appearance to those com-
plained against. The jurisdiction of this Court was limited
to the settlement of quarrels amongst the colliers. The bailies
have no written appointment under Lord Erskine's hand; they are
uniformly common colliers, and not one grade higher in condition
than those who are brought before them, so that the workmen are
truly and absolutely judged by their peers. It might be supposed
that in a society so rude, individuals would have spurned the idea


