
            COUNTY OF WIGTON                   221

nineteen years. The average rent of land in 1810 was 8. 6d. an
acre; now, however, it must be about a fourth less. The valued
rental of the county is L.67,642 Scotch, old valuation. Annual
value of real property in 1815, was L.143,425.
	Agriculture, though now practised on the most modern and en,
lightened principles was, till within a century, in a very rude state.
Marshal Stair was the first to introduce agriculturaI improvements into
this county, as his sister, the Countess of Loudon, (who died in 1770,
aged 100,) did into Ayrshire. This celebrated nobleman retired
from public business in 1728, and spent the remainder of his days
either in the counties of Wigton or Linlithgow, (in each of which
he had a residence,) in the quiet pursuits of private life. He in-
troduced into both these counties, the most approved modes of
agriculture he had witnessed either in England or on the Continent.
He practised the horse-hoeing system: he introduced the Lucerne
and St Foin grasses: in addition to potatoes, which then (1728)
first began to be cultivated in the open fields, he cultivated tur-
nips, carrots, and cabbages, with the plough; he subdivided and
inclosed his lands, drained swamps and marshes; and altogether
exhibited a skill and an enterprise such as to effect a revolution
in agriculture in the two counties in question. Lord Stair died
in 1747; but the beneficial influence of his example continued;
and since his death, Wigton has enjoyed the advantage of posses-
sing various skilful agriculturists, both landlords and tenants, to
whom her progress is deeply indebted. Two agricultural societies
have been long erected in the county; and the existing race of
farmers are highly respectable in point both of general intelligence
and professional skill.
	Rteam-Navigation.--But Wigtonshire, from the general progress
of the arts of peace, now enjoys advantages unknown there even ten
years ago. Remote as is her situation, she is reaping all the benefits
which steam navigation is so eminently calculated to confer. Two
steam-boats regularly ply between her leading ports and Liverpool
and Whitehaven; so that a ready and advantageous market is open-
ed up for her black-cattle and agricultural produce. A farmer
can now send his stock or his corn to Liverpool, and get it dis-
posed of in the shortest time, at the market-price, and for ready
money. Formerly, the case was quite otherwise. Corn-dealers
travelled the country, buying up grain, with, the view of shipping
it to an English market. Their purchases were seldom, if ever,
made with cash. On the contrary, it was almost the invariable


