
			KIRKMICHAEL.			507

young communicants, both at Kirkmichael and Crosshill. The
attendance at the former may be about 120, at the latter 130.
  Friendly Societies.--Two friendly societies were established, in
the year 1811. They were both founded on the principle of giv-
ing 8s. weekly, when the patients were confined to bed, and 4s.
when walking about. On the death of a member, each surviving
member contributes 1s. towards defraying the funeral expenses.
The age of admission is from the age of sixteen to thirty. In
process of time, one of the societies perceived that their allowances
were too liberal, and reduced them accordingly--5s. when confin-
ed to bed, and 2s. 6d. when walking about; and, if confined to bed
for more than a year, to receive only 2s. 6d., and when walking
about 2s. per week. This Society is in a very flourishing state,
having about ninety members, and funds amounting to L. 220.
The other society, by keeping too long to its original rules, and
admitting members up till the acre of forty, was obliged to break
up a few months ago. Associations of this kind are of immense
advantage in establishing habits of economy, and exciting an ho-
nourable feeling of independence. They cannot be too strongly
recommended to the young tradesman and labourer.
  Library.--A parochial library has just been established, which,
from the interest taken in its formation, and the good judgment shown
in the selection of works, promises to be eminently useful in extend-
ing and fostering a taste in the district for wholesome and instruc-
tive reading: A committee consisting of 12, with a librarian, are
elected annually as trustees and managers for conducting the af-
fairs of the library, according to the fundamental rules of the in-
stitution. There are from 30 to 40 subscribers. There is no
entry money. A penny a week paid quarterly or yearly is the
term of admission for each member.
  Savings Banks.--Two savings banks have been established in
the parish; but it is to be lamented they have not been available
in securing those important benefits to the people, which were
the object of their institution.
  Poor.--The number on the poor's roll is 16, who have, ac-
cording to their necessities, from 2s. 6d. to 8s. per month. A
considerable number, however, although not on the roll, receive
assistance pretty regularly, and in various shapes, in coals, cloth-
ing, victual, rent, &c. The annual collections at church, amount
to about L. 40; proclamation and other dues, to L. 10. There
are two mortifications for the poor, the one, left in 1678, by one


