
32			      WIGTONSHIRE.

	The general duration of leases is nineteen years, which term is
generally believed to be favourable to the occupier. The state of
farm-buildings and enclosures, in the parish, is exceedingly good;
and we cannot say that any serious obstacles to improvement arise
either from the want of capital, or the want of encouragement from
proprietors.
	Fisheries.--There is a salmon-fishery at Innerwell Port, the rent
of which is about L. 200 per annum. At this place, herrings,
mackerel, cod, and other kinds of fish are also frequently caught.
About three years ago, herrings were caught, in considerable
quantity, off Garlieston and Cruggleton. Some of the boats made
nearly L. 30 each by their fishings, during the season, which in-
duced the people of Garlieston to build about twenty little boats for
the purpose of following the fishing; but the want of success expe-
rienced during the two last seasons, renders it doubtful whether
this branch of industry will continue to be prosecuted for economi-
cal purposes.
	Produce.--Tbe average gross amount of raw produce annually
raised in the parish, may be rated as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds,                                     L. 5175   0   0
        of potatoes, turnips, and other plants,                       1778   0   0
        of hay, meadow and cultivated,                                1094   0   0
        of land in pasture,                                           4052   0   0
        of the annual thinning and periodical felling of woods,        187   0   0
        of fisheries,                                                  350   0   0

                   Total yearly value of raw produce,            L. 12,636   0   0

	Manufactures.--There are two branches of manufacture esta-
blished in the parish; the one, a damask manufactory, in the village
of Soibie; and the other, a rope and sail manufactory, at the vil-
lage of Garlieston. The former employs about 91 hands, includ-
ing those who spin; the latter employs about 1O. At both of
these, the men usually work ten or twelve hours per day, and six
days per week. The damask manufactory is of nearly fifty years'
standing, and is much famed for the superiority of its fabrics and
patterns of double damask. The goods are all used by families
of the highest rank, as they are wholly made from the best Dutch
flax, hand-spun; and the nobility of the county take such an in-
terest in the success of the manufactory, that the quality of the
goods is known through,the most of Scotland and England. In
1800, a suit of damask was sent (for the first time) to the annual
competition in Edinburgh, before the Board of Trustees, and it
gained the highest premium. The articles produced at the rope


