
                         PARISH OF TORPHICHEN.

         PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN & TWEEDDALE.

               THE REV. WILLIAM M. HETHERINGTON, MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of this parish is evidently Celtic in its ori-
gin; but etymologists are by no means agreed with regard to its
true composition and meaning. The word Tor is unquestionably
hill; but the latter part of the name is more doubtful. Some as-
sert it to mean ten, and say that it refers to a range of bills in the
vicinity having ten summits; The range, however, has not more
than seven distinct summits; and the Gaelic word fichead means
twenty, not ten, as they assume. The most probable derivation
seems to be Torfeochan, or the hill of the Ravens. It may be re-
garded as some corroboration of this meaning that there is an
estate in the neighbourhood of the village named Craw hill; and
that the crest of the most extensive land proprietor in the parish
is a raven chained to a rock, as if in allusion to the parochial name.
   Boundaries, Extent, &c.-Torphichen is bounded on the east
by Linlithgow; on the south by Bathgate, and part of Shotts;
on the west by part of Shotts and New Monkland; and on the
north by part of Slamannan and Muiravonside. Its greatest length
is about 10 miles from east to west, and its greatest breadth about
2 1/2 miles. In one part the breadth is less than a mile. It contains
about 10,429.77 English acres; and about 16.30 square miles.
   Topographical Aspect.-The eastern part of the parish is very
agreeably diversified by a succession of woody elevations, sloping
terraces, and cliffy ridges, as it ascends towards the higher range
of hills by which it is divided from Bathgate and Linlithgow on
the east. The ridge immediately above the village has a peculi-
arly picturesque appearance when viewed from the east, consisting
of a succession of rounded summits swelling along wave after wave,
as it some enormous ocean-tide had been suddenly changed to
solid earth throughout the continuous sweep of all its billowy heav-
                                  4

