
                         RENFREW.                             17

   The limits of the royalty are extensive, probably comprehending
the whole of the burgh's ancient domains, and being confined to
these;-for Castle Hill, and Orchard lands, &c. anciently belonging
to the baronial residence, are legally without the burgh, though
forming part of the town; while other lands more than a mile dis-
tant are included.  The Parliamentary boundaries are, on the
other hand, drawn closely round the part built upon, without any
reference to ancient limits.  They are also on one side incorrectly
described,-the term " Puddough burn" being mistaken for Mill
burn.  The Affairs of the burgh are managed by a provost, two
bailies, and sixteen councillors; and the annual rental of burgh
property amounts to about L. 1500, the interest of debts being
upwards of L. 100.  Weekly courts are held by the magistrates
for the administration of justice.  The quarter sessions are still held
here, as are several other county meetings, especially that for elect-
ing the county member,-the Sheriff and most other courts being
beld in Paisley.  Previous to the Reform Act, this burgh, along
with Glasgow, Rutherglen, and Dumbarton, returned a member
to Parliament;, but since the passing of that act Renfrew is con-
nected with Kilmarnock, Rutherglen, Dumbarton, and Port-Glas-
gow, the number of voters in this burgh being about 80.
   Antiquities.-The additional antiquities of this parish are neither
numerous nor perhaps important.  Historians speak of a great battle
having been fought at Renfrew, in 1164, between Sumerled, Lord
of the Isles, and the inhabitants of this country; but we are not
aware of any existing memorial to mark the spot.  We have also
seen the record of a tradition, assigning to the "Knock" hill in
this parish the origin of the surname Knox.  And it is at least rel-
markable, that, in a charter dated 1503, and quoted by Crawford,
the proprietor of "Knock" is styled "Uchter Knock."  It is far-
ther noticeable, that Knock and Ranfurly were at that time posses-
sed by the same family : thus connecting the alleged descent of the
Reformer with the Knock as well as Ranfurly.  In 1778, two urns,
containing human ashes, were dug up on the summit of the Knock
hill.  They were believed to be Roman,-this point being little more
than a mile from the place where the Romans had a station, near
Paisley.  In connection with the same hill, it may be added, that,
on the side nearest Renfrew, the lower edge of the hill is to this
day called the "Butts," most probably as marking a place of ex-
ercise for the practice of archery; and thus confirming some of the
preceding remarks respecting the early state of the burgh.  With-


