
	          ANSTRUTHER EASTER.                     303

factor. The accounts are audited by the representative of the
Anstrtither family or by the minister of the parish, or both. This
society is of great benefit to the parish.
  2. The Trades Box, or Burgess and Trades Poor-Box Society
possesses land, originally purchased with money accumulated from
donations, morteloth dues, &e. There is no annual subscription.
It affords aid. chiefly to aged and infirm freemen, whether residing
in the town or not, and occasionally to those disabled by sickness.
Its affairs are managed by a committee.
  Besides-, these two, there are four other societies, that administer
relief to their members in sickness and in old age, and also to
their widows,, and sometimes to their children. They are, 1. the
Merchant Mechinic Box; 2. St Aile's Lodge of Free Masons;, .3.
the Friendly Society; 4. the Caledonian Gardeners' Lodge.
They are all, so far as we can learn, under good management, and
are of great service to many under the casualties of life.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-An assessment for the poor has
never been resorted to in this parish. The number of the poor
regularly receiving aid from the kirk-session funds is 18, and the
average sum allotted to each per week is one shilling. The funds
for this purpose arise from the contributions at the church door,
which amount weekly to 8s. 6d. ; from the rerit of lands in the
parishes of Pittenweein and Anstrutber Wester, mortified for the
behoof of the poor, and amounting to L. 34, 10s. An annual col-
lectiori is made in the church, in the month of December, for the
purpose of providing clothing to the poor, and usually amounts
to L. 3. Besides this, about the same period of the year, a sub-
scription is made by the inhabitants of the town, to procure a sup-
ply of coals for the poor, averaging L. II. A female society was
estn,blisbed this year, for aiding the destitute, and at present, 6d.
per week to each of .3ixteen poor people is distributed from its
funds. On the whole, the provision for the poor in this place ap-
pears ample, (subject of courre to the usual burden.3 that fall on
the funds under the management of kirk-sessions, such as salaries
to church officers, aliment to illegitimate or degerted,children, and
relief to the occasional poor,) and the idea of levying an assesment
on. householders never ha-ving been entertained, there, is not that
baste in applyinc, for relief amongst the poor, which is said to
exist in many parishes in Scotland.

  January 1837.


