
     of Clatt.

fully 5 acres.  It is much the same as it was 150 years ago,
as appears by a decreet of locality, dated June 1650, and is
now become very inadequate to the present rate and mode of
living, when the value of money is so much diminished, and
the price of necessaries so much raised and taxed.  In 1760,
when the present incumbent settled, he had his first man-ser-
vant at 2 L. 6 s. 8 d. Sterling, wages for the year; at present,
he cannot have one, for the same office, under six guineas.
It is the same with respect to provisions, furniture, apparel,
etc.  Almost every article is tripled in value.

   School.-There is a parochial school, and qualified teacher,
whose salary is 6 bolls of meal, collected in small quantities
from the inhabitants; besides 20 L. Scotch, as session clerk,
with the ordinary perquisites for baptisms and marriages; and
which altogether, with scholars fees, will not exceed 11 L.
Sterling a year.  As this is much about the common rate of
schoolmaster's livings through great part of this country, it
certainly calls for the interference of the Legislature, to make
some more competent and decent provision for such an useful
class of men, upon whom the morals and prosperity of So-
ciety, as well as of individuals, so greatly depends.

<FOOTNOTE>

ture inscription on the top.  The piece was ornamented with paintings in co-
lours of vermillion, azure, and gold leaf, very bright and fresh, it was placed
about 5 feet high above the area, and probably stood above the spot where the
altar was placed.  Within the opposite corner, at the front wall, was an apart-
ment, or closet, of a cubical form, which seems to be the sacristy where the
host, money and books were kept.  Also, within the inner sconcing of the east
door, another such closet, but smaller, probably for holding a vessel with con-
secrated water, for sprinkling the people as they entered to worship.  At taking
down the old walls, the officious zeal of the workmen broke and defaced the
tablet, before it could be rescued from their hands.


