
166                         AYRSHlRE.

ages, 448; communicants, 226. There are three Roman Catholics
in the parish.
	A Bible and Missionary Society, in connection with the County
Society, was instituted in this place in 1815. The amount of the
contributions, yearly was once L. 24, but since the dispute about
pure circulation, it has greatly fallen off,--now scarcely amounting
to L. 14.
	The amount of collections In the parish church for religious and
charitable purposes exceeds L. 70 annually.
        The church and chapel are in general well attended.
        Education.--There are four schools in the town, and one at
Crosshands, about two miles distant. There is only one parochial
school, the other three in the town are unendowed. At the pa-
rochial school, the branches of education taught are, English,
writing, arithmetic, practical mathematics, Latin, Greek, and
French. At one of the private schools, English, writing, arith-
metic, Latin, and Greek are taught. The school in the country
is endowed with a house and garden from the Duke of Portland.
The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary, a garden,
and is allowed L. 9 for bouse-rent. The amount of school fees
about L. 60. The expense of education per annum, for English,
10s.; writing, 12s.; arithmetic, 14s.; Latin, Greek, and French,
16s.
	The children are sent young to school, generally about five
years of age, so that they are able to read and write before they
are nine. The people are so far alive to the benefits of education,
as to have all their children taught to read; writing and arithme-
tic are less attended to. There are Done in the parish upwards of
fifteen years of age who cannot read.
	Literature.--There is a public library in the town, and a reli-
gious tract and book society. The books in the library are not
numerous. However, additions are made to them yearly. 5s. is
paid at entry, and 3s. annually.
	Charitable and other Institutions.--There are 8 friendly so-
cieties in the town, the object of which is to make reciprocal pro-
visions for their members while labouring under disease. Two of
these societies have existed for twenty years. The funds of the one
are L. 240; of the other, L. 160,--the entry-money and quarter-
ly accounts according to the age of the individual. The present
allowance is 4s. weekly to such as are unable to work, and 6s. if
confined to bed. Their regulations have been sanctioned by the
Quarter-sessions, and certified to be inconformity to the provisions


