
                             ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.            259

      friends.  When on the coast of Jura, they were overtaken by a
      storm, which forced them to land on the property of Maclean of
      Duart, in that Isle.  It happened that the same storm made the
      usurper, Uistean, and some of his adherents, take shelter in a bay,
      quite contiguous to where his uncle had landed.  As soon as night
      had come on, Uistean, fully aware of his uncle's situation, carried
      off a number of Maclean's cattle, and set sail for the north, know-
      ing well that, as his visit to the place was unknown to Duart,
      Donull G•rm and his retinue would be accused as the perpetra-
      tors.  Such was the case next day,-when the cattle were amis-
      sing, the Skyemen were attacked by a strong body of Duart's re-
      tainers.  Many of the Macdonalds fell in the skirmish, and their
      chief narrowly escaped, by getting into one of his galleys, and set-
      ting sail for Skye.  This insidious conduct on the part of Uistean
      was the cause of a violent feud between the Macdonalds and the
      Macleods, and matters assumed an aspect so serious that the king
      bad to interfere to effect a reconciliation.  Soon after Donull
      G•rm's return at that time to his castle at Duntulm, he had a
      letter from his treacherous nephew Uistean, which was the means
      of bringing his plots clearly to light.  Uistean being in Uist, with
      a view to procure as many adherents as possible, wrote a letter to
      one of his confederates in Skye, revealing all his plans, while, at
      the same time, he wrote another letter, full of friendly expres-
      sions, to his uncle at Duntulm.  It is said, that while both letters
      were closed and sealed, he committed an egregious mistake for
      his own unrighteous cause, by addressing his confederate's letter
      to his uncle, and vice versa ; by which awkward oversight, Donull
      G•rn was, from Uistean's own handwriting, led to a knowledge
      of all his schemes.  Before the usurper was aware of what he had
      done, Donull G•rm despatched a messenger to his kinsman and
      relative, Donull Maclain 'ic She-mais in Uist, to seize Uistean,
      and bring him prisoner to Duntulm.  Without loss of time Donull
      Maclain put his liege-lord's instructions into execution.  He re-
      sorted to the house where Uistean resided, and as he approached
      it with a strong retinue of men, the usurper, dreading that all was
      not right, and seeing the impossibility of effecting his escape, had
      barely time to dress himself in female attire, and to commence grind-
      ing with a quern, or hand-mill, at which the inmates had been at
      the time engaged.  The size, and masculine appearance of the
      grinder soon attracted the notice of the party when they entered
      the house.  They laid hold of him, but his great agility and bodily


