110                       KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

entering Kells, on the north-east, it is joined by the Deuch, and
at the southern extremity of the parish by the Dee, which name
it then assumes, and, after a course of about forty miles, empties
itself into the sea at Kirkcudbright.  The Dee, which separates
Kells from Monigaff, Girthon, and Balmaghie, is also a consider-
able stream.  The parish is everywhere intersected by rivulets.  The
lochs are numerous: the largest is Loch Ken, in the vicinity of
New Galloway.  Its length from Kenmure Castle to the Boat of
Roan cannot be less than five miles, by about one-half or three-
quarters of a mile in breadth.  Lochs Dungeon and Harrow in
the north of the parish are also of considerable extent.
     Mineralogy.--There are no mines of any description wrought
in the parish.  The hills to the south along the river Dee are
masses of granite.
     Zoology.--Ptarmigan are extinct.  Grouse are considered to be
on the decrease, partly from poaching, and probably also from the
great increase of black game, which is abundant.  Hares and
partridges, were they properly preserved, would be plentiful; as it
is, they are comparatively scarce.  Snipe and woodcock are nu-
merous.  Deer were occasionally seen, in the remembrance of
some old people.  The bittern has disappeared.  Foxes and
otters are numerous, but the badger has of late years become
extinct.  Eagles are often seen, and occasionally have their nests
in the parish.  Salmon, especially towards autumn, are abundant,
both in the Ken and Dee; but there is no regular fishery.  Trout
are plentiful in Lochs Dungeon and Harrow, and in the smaller streams.  In Loch Ken there are pike and perch.  Perhaps the
largest pike known to have been killed in Scotland, was caught
with the rod and fly in this loch by John Murray, game-keeper to
the grandfather of the present Viscount Kenmure.  It weighed
72 lbs.   The head is still preserved in Kenmure Castle, and
bears witness to its enormous size.  In Loch Dungeon there are
char, which are occasionally killed with the fly; and in the river
Dee the pearl muscle abounds.
     Botany.--The parish affords an ample and interesting field for
the investigations of the botanist.  Amongst the rarer plants are
the following:--

<TABLE>
Uva ursi                Anagallis tenells                 Melampyrum pratense
Pingticula lusitanica   Cardamine amara                   Botrychium LunariaMeum athamanticum       Solanum Dulcamara                 Pteris crispa
Geum rivale             Orobus sylvatica                  Polypodium Dryopteris
Nymphaca alba           Ornithopus perpusillus            Asplenium Ruta-muraria,
and many other rare and beautiful ferns.


