
20                             RENFREWSHIRE.

thus, as well as by sales, much of what formerly belonged to inha-
bitants of the place, has now passed into the bands of strangers.  The
nearness of the burgh to these large towns, rendered it at the same
time convenient for muslin weavers.  They therefore took the place
of those who departed.  Barns and other offices, formerly append-
ed to the dwellings of substantial burgesses, became loom-shops.  In-
stead of a butt and a benn, a single apartment was now all that could
in general be afforded as a dwelling-house.  And instead of living
on the produce of lands, of fishings, and of trade, the greater num-
ber of families are dependent solely on the fruits of their daily la-
bour; which, in consequence of the long depression of this branch
of trade, are scanty enough.  The usual effects have followed, both
morally and economically.
   The average number of births in the parish for the last seven
years may be about 75 annually, of marriages 23, and of deaths 65.
The number of persons at present under fifteen years of age is,
as near as I can ascertain, 1047
   There are only four families usually resident, possessed of con-
siderable landed property; and not more than perhaps one other
has lands to the amount of L.50 annually.  There is not at pre-
sent any insane person in the parish, but five or six are in a fatuous
state.  There is only one person blind, and none either wholly
deaf or dumb.*

<TABLE>
The number of families in the parish is	.	.	.	535
	chiefly employed in agriculture	.	.	.	117
               in trade, manufactures or handicraft,	.	366

	                  IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-There are 3776 acres English measure in	the
parish.  Nearly the whole is in a state of cultivation.  We have
not the means of ascertaining with precision the amount of lands
enclosed around gentlemen's houses and under plantations.  The
latter, however, are chiefly around parks and, lawns, and consist of
beech, ashil elm lime, oak, larch, spruce, Birch, horse-chestnut, &c.
with a variety of shrubs and evergreens, such as the bay laurel,
Portugal laurel, lauristinus, &c. all of which thrive, when properly
sheltered.  There is no undivided common, in the parish, but there

<FOOTNOTE>When resenting the church in 1821, a large quantity of earth was dug out of
the floor and with it many bones; of which were unusually large.  To prove
this, thigh bones were laid alongside the thigh of living men bout six feet high, and the
were bones were said to exceed length the living limb with all its integuments.  One
of the largest hats Which could be found, was also too small to draw over some of the
crania.  We state these facts reported by credible witnesses but without venturing
to infer any thing to the general size of the ancient inabitants.


