
                           NEW KILPATRICK.                       61

1104 persons ; Episcopalians, 5 families, or 31 persons; Catholics,
19 families, or 112 persons ; total, 577 families or 3031 persons.
Divine Service is not so regularly well attended as it ought to
be, neither at the Established Church, nor, it is believed at the
Relief meeting-house. According to a common calculation, half
of the population are supposed capable of attending church. Of
the 1784 persons, therefore, who profess to be attached to the
Establishment, 892 ought to attend public worship; but the church
is seldom full except on occasion of the communion; and the con-
gregation is considered to be well out when it amounts to 500 per-
sons. A good many, however, are accommodated at Mary-Hill,
and other neightbouring churches ; and, on the whole, it cannot be
said that we are not a church-going people. The average num-
ber of communicants at the Established Church is 360; and the
average amount of the ordinary collections for the poor is L.58,
to which L. 10 may be added as the probable amount of occasional
collections for religious, and charitable purposes.
   Education.--There are in the parish one parochial, and five
private day-schools, and five Sabbath schools. None of the private
schools are endowed, but four of them have school rooms provided
by individuals, and the other by private subscription. One of the
teachers has likewise a dwelling-house and garden, together with
a small salary, supplied by Sir Archibald Campbell, Bart. The
branches of education generally taught are merely reading, writ-
ing, and arithmetic. In the parochial school, and in one of the
private schools, English grammar, Latin, geography, and practi-
cal mathematics are taught in addition to the more common
branches. The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary
and other legal appointments, with a small endowment from the
Mains estate, amounting to L. 20 Scots a-year. The school-fees
are so ill paid, or rather so seldom demanded, that they do not
add above L. 10 a-year to his income. The usual terms of edu-
cation are, for reading, 3s. 6d. ; for wrhting and accounts, 4s. 6d. 
English grammar or geography, 5s. ; and Latin, 7s. per quarter.
Though the benefits of education are freely acknowledged, there is
reason to fear that many parents are satisfied with giving their chil-
dren a smaller share of it than formerly. The temptation of add-
ing somewhat to the family earnings, causes those who are in the
neighbourhood of the printfields to be taken from school at much

<FOOTNOTE>This enumeration differs slightly from the Government census of 1831, haring
bean made indepedently of it, and partly in the preceding year.


