
                                ERROL.                           401

    and four attendants, who receive nothing but full in the form of wages.
    The average of the last eight years, (1829-1836), during which
    there has been a compulsory assessment, has been 51 regular, and
    21 occasional; in all 72.  Of the regular poor, 33 1/2 have belong-
    ed tothe Established Church, and the rem`ining 171/2 to this Dis-
    senters; while, of the occasional poor, 12 1/2  have belonged to the
    Established Church, and 8 1/2 to the Dissenters.
        Taking the average of the same period,-the last eight years
    -the total sum annually expended on the poor, regular and occa-
    rional included, has, in round numbers, been exactly L. 369; so,
    that the average sum annually allotted to each of the above 72 is
    exactly L. 5, 2s. 6d.  And. as all the poor in the same circum-
    stances receive the same rate of allowance, the share of the above
    L. 369, annually received by those 46 who have belonged to the
    Establishment, has been, in round numbers, L. 235 ; while that an-
    nually received by those 26 who have belonged to the Dissent-
    ers, has been L. 134, which is considerably more than one-third
    of the whole.
      The proportion of poor to the whole population, during the last-
    eight years has been exactly as 1 to 41; at present, notwithstand-
    ing the legal assessment, the proportion is not greater than 1 to
    52 1/2.
      During the last eight years, the average amount of annual con-
    tributions for the relief of the poor has been, as already stated
    L. 369.  Of this sum, the proportion arising from church collec-
    tions has been L.54; from the interest of bequests, L.20, 15s.;
    from the hire of mortcloths and the parish hearse, L. 4; and from
    a general compulsory assessment, L. 290, 5s.  This is not the
    whole rum raised by assessment, but only the sum actually expend-
    ed on the poor.  The expenses of levying the money from the be-
    ritors `nd inhabitants, together with the; business charges of
    agent, have amounted annually to some: L. 20 or L30  additional.
       Of the assessment thus actually required for the poor
    portion eligible from those inhabitants who,  do not attend the
    Established Church, has at no time  exceeed one fifteenth-eight;
    and the sum actually exacted  does not much exceed the half of this;
    or one-fifty-sixth, although to vbe collections for the poor they come
    tribute no proportion whatever.
        Before the year 1828, the assessment for the poor was of a vo-
    luntary king, although according to a scale of equalizaton, which
    had the general concurrence of the parties interested. Since that
       PERTH


