
310                          ROXBURGHSHIRE.

  The same causes which precluded the monks of Kelso from
prosecuting the arts of peace, render their monastery more fertile
than sacred edifices generally are, in the materials of military his-
tory.  Their annals recall the "memoriam perfuncti periculi,"
if not the "testimonium preterite beneficii."   Indeed, from the
commencement of the wars between England and Scotland, un-
til the suppression of monachism in 1559, the Abbey is continually
mentioned in connexion with the convulsions in which the confines
of the two countries were involved.  It seems to have been twice
burnt, so early as the contest that rose out of the claims of Bruce
and Baliol for the Scottish throne; and so little do the monks
seem, even at that period, to have been respected either by the
neighbouring barons, or by the people at large, that they requir-
ed, in times of general truce, the protection of the King of
England  to enable them to buy and convey provisions in safety.
The greatest disasters of the Abbey, however, were sustained
during the successive invasions of the Earls of Surrey and Hert-
ford in 1523 and 1545.  In the former of these incursions, a body
of English under Lord Dacre, after sacking the town, demolish-
ed the abbot's house, burnt the dormitory, and unroofed the
monastery itself,--conveying away the very lead wbich covered
it, insomuch that all religious services were interrupted, and the
monks compelled to retire to a neighbouring village to celebrate
their sacred rites.  The devastation of 1545 was still more irre-
parable.  Kelso was not indeed, in the latter instance, the exclusive
sufferer : for in the course of a few days, 287 places, including
the four great monasteries of the border, were sacked, pillaged
and dilapidated; but Kelso, as the only place that offered resist-
ance, shared worst.  The east and north sides of the Abbey
tower were thrown down, and the choir reduced to its present
ruinous condition, probably by means of a battery of cannon di-
rected against it from the north-east; whilst the town was redu-
ced to so wretched a plight, that the weekly market could not be
held in it, but had to be transferred for a considerable period to
the village of Hume.  The Abbey is occasionally mentioned after
this period as a place of temporary refuge from the sudden incur-
sions of the famous garrison at Wark and other scourges of these
distracted times : nor, indeed, do the conventual buildings seem to
have been entirely abandoned by the monks, until the Reformation.
But there is no reason to think that it was ever used as a place
of religious worship, after the bombardment just described ; and,


