
116                           RENFREWSHIRE.

the disciples of Isaac Walton.  The hand-loom weaver from Pais-
ley, recognized by his wan looks, green apron, and suit of rusty vel-
veteen, may frequently be seen angling for the fish last mentioned,
of which, though impregnated with a muddy flavour, he content-
edly makes his meal, and thinks himself fortunate if he can suc-
ceed in filling his creel in the course of a day's fishing.  Could not
a paternal government stretch forth its hand and do something to
ameliorate the condition of a most meritorious class of men, who
have suffered a long depression, not from any fault of their own,
but solely in consequence of those improvements in machinery
which have proved so beneficial to the community at large?  Let
them have but a fair remuneration for their labour, and their native
good sense will soon teach them to concern themselves with other
matters than annual parliaments and universal suffrage.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The geological features of this pa-
rish are not of so striking and peculiar a nature as to demand any
but a very brief notice.  In so far as regards the character and compo-
sition of its surface, it presents the usual phenomena peculiar to the
diluvial deposit of the surrounding country.  The diluvium itself
consists for the most part of a loose gravel, containing a multitude
of interspersed boulders of primary as well as secondary rocks,
which from their character appear to have. been transported from a
north-western locality.  The strata immediately beneath this di-
luvial covering belong to that series of the secondary division of
rocks denominated Carboniferous.  This is indicated by the alter-
nations they exhibit of grey sandstone, shale, and coal, which are
more or less conspicuous in the quarries that have been opened.
In these sandstone, very beautiful specimens of the fossil Flora, which
are supposed to be characteristic of the independent coal formation,
are found.  The manner in which several whin dikes traverse these
strata is not unworthy of notice.-Some of them are of great thickness,
and have been, during a long series of years, extensively quarried for

          No motion dares his amorous sloth molest
          Or ruffle Blythswood's image on the breast.
          Of tranquil Cart, &c.
                                                 Clyde, a Poem, p. 95.

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Wilson died master of the grammar school at Greenock, before his election to
which situation he had been taken bound by the magistrates and minister, to aban-
don for ever " the profane and unprofitable art of poem-making."  To this severe demand
he submitted for the sake of his family.  In a letter to his son, we have the follow-
ing doleful passage: "I once thought to live by the breath of farne, but how miser-
ably disappointed, when, instead of being caressed by the great, I was condemned to
bawl myself hoarse among wayward brats, to cultivate sand, and wash Ethiopians for
all the dreary days of an obscure life, the contempt of shopkeepers and brutish skipers."
-Biographical sketch by Dr Leyden.


