
			KEIR.                            471

barley. Converted into money on an average of the last eight
years, the grain stipend paid by the Duke of Buccleuch, of about
twelve chalders, amounts to L. 166, 14s. The money stipend by the
four other heritors, who have surrendered their teinds, including
the usual sum for communion elements, is L. 62, 14s. 4d.; total,
L. 229, 8s. 4d. In 1728 the stipend was 650 merks, and three chal-
ders of victual, two-thirds meal, one-third bear, besides thirty
merks for communion elements.
	The heads of 6 families are attached to the Relief; of 8 to the
Secession; of 8 to the Reformed Presbytery; of 3 to the Romish
church. All the remaining families, amounting to about 187, be-
long to the Established church, and as many members of the other
families have joined it, that part of the population connected with it
may be stated at 1000. Divine worship is remarkably well attended.
The average number of communicants is about 600. Those belong-
ing to the parish are about 445. The sacrament, as in many of the
neighbouring parishes, takes place in the open air. In consequence
of its being the latest in the district, and celebrated in a spot of sin-
gular beauty and adaptation for the purpose, it is attended by a
very great number of people. The most perfect decorum, how-
ever, is observed, and, were the weather more generally favourable,
few would desire to exchange this "temple built by God" for one
"made with hands." The average amount of contributions for
religious purposes by subscriptions and collections in church, be-
sides the usual collections for the poor, has for the last six years
been L. 16. For the last nine years the average of church collec-
tions for the poor has been L. 29, 2s.
	Education.--There are two parochial schools, in which are taught
Greek and Latin, mensuration and mathematics. The school-
masters' salaries are L. 25, 13s. 4d. each, and the school fees
amount to about L. 30 more. Both school-houses and the house
of one of the masters, were built by subscription, the other master's
house by the master himself. The heritors have, however, granted
a considerable additional and repairs for the upper school-house
and school. The expense of education is, for English, 2s. per quar-
ter; do. and writing, 2s. 6d.; do. do. and arithmetic, 3s.; these
and all other branches, 5s. The Kildare Street Society's Juvenile
Library was lately gifted to the upper school by Mr John M'Mil-
lan, now Rector of the Dumfries Academy, and a Sabbath school
library has been procured by a collection in church and donations.
	Poor.--The average number of persons receiving aid from the


