
     Statistical Account

to perpection, but hath greatly improved within these last 30
years, and rents have at least risen in proportion.  When it
is told the public, that there are few farms, within 3 miles
of Urr church, that have not been let, within there 40 years,
for one tenth part of the rent they now yield, the assertion
may stem improbable; the fact, however, is incontestible;
and very adequate causes may be assigned.  By the persecu-
tion, through which the west of Scotland, in general, and
Galloway in particular, suffered so much, during the reign of
Charles II. the minds of the people seem not only to have
been alienated from the labours of agriculture, but from every
species of business, standing distinct from religion and politics.
Even the revolution, in 1688, did not seem to afford absolute
security against the return of their former suffering.  As this
prospect filled the old with despair, it fired the young with
resentment; and hence many of them inlifted in the armies
of Britain and Holland, during the wars of King William and
Queen Anne, to oppose the return of a family whose principles
they dreaded.  Slowly, indeed, does a nation recover of the
wounds made by civil discord.  It is not yet quite 100 years,
since farms in this neighbourhood, that now pay a rent of
above 200 L. per annum, were offered at the church doors, to
any tenant, who would pay the land-tax, ministers stipend,
and other public burdens.  Let us be cautious how such times
are brought back.  With a government that exempts us from
such calamities, we should not wantonly quarrel*.
   From the year 1688, to the year 1740, agriculture seems
to have improve, but very little; and the value of land to
have just kept pace, with what degree of peace and prospect

<FOOTNOTE>

*Farmers ought to be particularly cautious in countenancing intestine dif-
orders.  In times of prosperity and peace, a man may be richer, and may live
more comfortably, paying 200 L. a year for a farm, than be would be, in times of
civil war, if he had it for nothing.


