
     Of Speymouth.

sea, the tide does not slow above half a mile up the ri-
ver.  The ordinary depth of water on the bar at neap
tides, is from 8 to 9 1/2 feet.
   The greatest inconvenience of the harbour is, that the
stream, by its strength and rapidity, sometimes brings
down in a flood such quantities of gravel as shift the
channel a little, especially at the entrance of the har-
bour.  But there are always good pilots at the place;
and many vessels belonging to the English Company at
Garmouth.  Some of them of 350 tons burden, have been
going and coming for these 7 years, without any parti-
cular detriment or inconvenience.  There has never
been any attempt to build a pier; and, from the above
cause, it is to be feared that it would not succeed, or
that the expense would exceed the value of the trade.
The shore on both sides, all along the bay of Spey, is
soft gravel, for 5 or 6 miles, excepting one rock, which
runs out a little into the sea, about 3 miles W. from
Spey, and is hidden at high water; so that a vessel will
be in no great danger, if there be a necessity, in running

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

joined, and that the river once run 50 feet above its present land, along the
extensive plain which begins at Orton, about 8 miles from the sea, on 1
runs nearly the whole length of the parish of rivermouth to the sea.  The
small stones and pebbles in this plain, which have the appearance on being
rounded and smoothed by running water, and the bank behind when has
the appearance of being formed by the same, seem to strengthen the con-
jecture.  But at this time, far beyond all the historical records of the
country, the appearance of the surface of the earth must have been very
different from the present.  The river, at present, runs straight into the
sea.  But there is a tradition, and indeed a plain evidence, from the ap-
pearance of the ground, that it has once taken, a sudden turn within a few
hundred yards of the sea, and run westward in a narrow cut of hollow
ground, parallel to the shore, now called the Lin, and entered the sea
about 3 miles to the W. of its present mouth, opposite to a hul yet
called Spey's Law.

</UNREADABLE>


