
58                   SHETLAND.

at L.1 per merk-land. The real rent, as nearly as can be ascer-
tained, is about L.1000.
   There have been improvements lately made in draining, instead
of the old system of leaving an open ditch between each rig, which
caused a great waste of surface. In several places, these ditches
are filled with stones, covered over, and the land brought into a
proper state. There have also been introduced into this parish
twenty ploughs, (commonly called Scotch ploughs, I suppose to
distinguish them from the plough formerly used in the parish,
which had only one stilt,) and thirteen carts. A few years ago,
there were only two carts in the parish.
   Fisheries.-The fishings are of ling, cod, and herring. Last
year, 528 barrels of herrings, and 60 tons of ling, cod, tusk, and
saith, were cured in the parish; but a much greater quantity were
taken by the fishermen, belonging to it. In the month of May, all
the fishermen belonging to the parish repair to the fishing-sta-
tions in Northrnavine and Papa. Stour, for the purpose of prosecut-
ing the ling and cod fishing, upon which they principally depend
for the payment of their rents. Besides the above, the coal fish
(commonly called -sillock and piltock) are taken extensively in the
parish; from which, the inhabitants derive support for their fami-
lies, and occasionally make considerable quantities of oil.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The number of families belonging to the
Established Church is 374; there are 17 families Methodists; and
3 Independents. The stipend amounts to L.150. The extent of
the glebe is nine merk-land; yearly value L.10. The manse was
built in 1751; completely repaired and enlarged (at the expense
ofat least L.500) between the years 1819 and 1821. Its present
condition is not good.
   Education.-There are four schools in the parish. Two more
are very greatly required. The salary of the parochial teacher is
L.25 13s. 3 5/4d. His fees may amount to L.3 per annum; and he
receives L.2, 2s. 9d. in lieu of garden ground.
   Poor.-The average numberbf persons receiving aid during
the last three years is 25. Average sum allotted to each, 5s. 3 3/4d.
The average annual amount of contributions for last three years,
L.9, 17s. 6 3/4d. Of this sum L.6, 1ls. on an average were annual-
ly divided among the poor. The remainder was expended on the
interment of paupers, and other casualties.
   May 1841.


