
268                       FORARSHIRE.

and importance in the hands of John Maberly, Esq. late Member
for Abingdon, are now the property of Messrs Richards and Com-
pany, London. Both works, the writer feels pleasure in adding,
are under excellent management, and great attention is paid to the
health, morals, and education of those employed at them.

		    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There are no villages in the parish. The nearest market-town
is Montrose, which is distant about four miles from the east end
of the parish, and where the traffic during the week is very consi-
derable.
   Means of Communication.--A daily post runs through the pa-
rish from Montrose to Laurencekirk, and the Union and Defiance
coaches from Edinburgh to Aberdeen daily pass in a different di-
rection. The length of the turnpike roads is only about 3 miles,
namely, 1 mile to the west, from the North-water bridge toll on
the Brechin road, and 2 miles on the Marykirk road to Mon-
trose; the line of which last is now undergoing a considerable al-
teration, with the view of avoiding the long ascent at the back of
Rosemount. There are two great bridges connected with the pa-
rish,--the old North-water bridge, which was built above 300
years ago, and consists of three arches, and the Marykirk bridge,
a handsome bridge of four arches, which was built in 1814, at a
cost of L. 7000, by means of shares of L. 25 each, and under the
sanction of an act of Parliament. This last erection was a great
and decided improvement, and has very much facilitated the in-
tercourse of the two counties.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the parish church is ex-
actly centrical, being about three miles distant from the two extre-
mities. It was built in 1775, and has undergone sundry repairs.
But it is neither a commodious nor a comfortable place of wor-
ship, and, what is worse, it has of late become insufficient for the
accommodation of the increasing population of the parish: the
consideration of which circumstances will, it is hoped, soon lead to
the erection of a new building, at once more comfortable and more
adequate to the existing wants of the people. The number for
which it at present affords suitable accommodation is 500, and
there are free sittings for about 20 of these. The manse was
built in 1776, and has at different times got repairs and additions,
although still its accommodation is limited and confined. The
glebe is about 9 acres in extent, and may be valued at L. 2 per
acre. At the last augmentation in 1822, the stipend was fixed at
15 chalders, half barley and half meal, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for com-


