
                   ALLOA.                               51

standing, and is extensive, employing about 8 men in summer,
and about 24 during, the winter.
   Mills.--The mills at Alloa are for grinding wheat, oats, and
malt, and are capable of grinding about 250 quarters a-day.
They are driven by two water wheels, and occasionally by steam
when water is deficient. A thrashing-mill is driven by the same
machinery. There are also mills on a less, extensive scale, for
the same purposes at Cambus. There are many thrashing-mills
in the parish, some of which are driven by steam.
   Tobacco and snuff were formerly manufactured here to a great
extent,--wbat was called Alloa pig tail having been well known
in London. The trade in these is still considerable.
   Breweries.-At the eight breweries in the parish, about 22,000
quarters of malt are consumed annually, the duty on which is
L.22,733, 6s. 8d. The quantity of ale made amounts to 80,000
barrels: it is exported to England, the continent, North and South
America, the East and West Indies, and Australia. Alloa has
long been celebrated for the superior quality of its ale, wbich was
first brought into notice by the late Mr Robert Meiklejohn.
   Customs, Shipping, and Trade. *-About the year 1710, Alloa
was made a port,wbere vessels were registered, and all other cus-
tom-house business transacted; and it appears that, from that pe-
riod to the close of the century, a very considerable trade was
carried on between it and Holland, the Baltic, and Portugal; but
in consequence of the bonding system having been introduced
with the sanction of Parliament, at the larger ports, Alloa as well
as all smaller ports fell off in their importations from foreign parts.
The direct importations have, however, of late years increased;
the bonding of timber and all other goods being now allowed at
this port, we may confidentl look forward to a great increase in
trade from, the Baltic, Holland, &c. The locality is peculiarly
favourable for carrying on an extensive traffic, being in the imme-
diate vicinity of large public works; and Stirling (a branch of the
port of Alloa), being in itself populous and wealthy, as well as
being the entrance to the West Highlands, affords advantages to
spirited and enterprizing merchants, for carrying on a profitable
trade in Baltic and Dutch produce, &c.
   Alloa has commodious quays at which vessels of a large size can
lie with safety, the depth of water being at stream-tides 22, and
at neap-tides 14 or 15 feet. The dead water at low ebb in spring-

<FOOTNOTE>Kindly furnished by. James H. Cobban, Esq. Collector of Customs.


