
	1142			PERTHSHIRE.

	the river, swelled by the waters of the Dean and Ericht, rises to
	a great height.  Embankments, however, have been erected with-
	in the last ten years, by the proprietors; and these, unless in
	very extraordinary seasons, are sufficient to prevent the mischief,
	which was occasioned every year to a greater or less degree.
	These embankments average in height about seven feet ; in
	breadth, thirty-six feet at the base, and three at the top.  Their
	base is at a considerable height above the ordinary bed of the
	rivers.  The Isla abnunds in trout; tud in favourable seasons, a
	large number of salmon are taken in it.  It rises in Canlochan-
	glen, on the confines of Aberdeenshire; and after a winding
	course of upwards of 40 miles, falls into the Tay, about 3 miles
	beyond the western boundary of the parish.
	   Botany.-The only plants rare in the district and found in the pa-
	rish are the following: Stratiotes aloides, Lysimachia thyrsiflora,
	Traqopoqon major, Teucrium chamaedrys, Hyoscyamus niger, Sam-
	bucus ebulus.  The rarest of these, the Stratiotes aloides was planted
	in the loch of Forfar, by George Don.  It is found in this parish in
	a stagnant piece of water, which formerly formed part of the chan-
	nel of the Isla ; and in all probability found its way into its present
        locality from the former, in one of the many overflowings of the
	Isla, which communicates with the loch of Forfar by the Dean.
	The Lysiynachia thyrsiflora grows in the same locality.   The
	Teacrium chamaedrys is found on an old wall by the ruins of the
	Abbey.  The Tragopogon major in the den of Keithick.  The
	Hyoseyamus niqer and Sambucus ebulus in the church-yard.

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY,
	   Land-owner.--The chief land-owners in this parish are, W.
	E. Collinswood, Esq. of Keitbick; F. Stewart, Esq. of Balme-
	rino ; George Kitiloch, Esq. of Kinloch ; Patrick Murray, Esq.
	of Simprim; - Cunninghame, Esq. of Cronan; Miss Geekie
	of Balbrogie.
	   Parochial Registers.-The date of the oldest of the parochial
	registers is 1682; and they appear 4o have been regularly and
	carefully kept.
	   Antiquities.-The remains of a Roman camp are still to be seen,
	imediately to the east of the churchyard.  Maitland, in his His-
	tory of Scotland, describes it as a square of 1200 feet, fortified
	with two strong ramparts and large ditches.  The eastern ram-
	part is the only one that has not been levelled.  It is generally
	supposed to be one of the camps of Lollius Urbicus.


