
                      PARISH OF DRAINIE.

                  PRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY,

                 THE REV. DR RICHARD ROSE, MINISTER.



                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        DRAINIE comprehends the ancient and united parishes of Kin-
      eder, a parsonage; and Ogston- a mensal church, of which the
      Bishop of Moray drew the great teinds.  Ogston was disjoined
      from St Andrews and annexed to Kineder in 1642.  The church
      of the united parish was built about 1666, near the mansion-house,
      and on the estate of Drainie, and thereby gave name to the unit-
      ed parish.
         Name.- The etymology of Kineder is evidently Celtic, (ceaneder,
      signifying a peninsula or point between the Moray Frith and lake
      of Spynie,) but the derivation of Drainie, like its ancient territory,
      is fiercely disputed between the modern Celts and Picts, and I
      must leave them to settle it if they can.   That the Celts at some
      time, and prior to the Picts,  possessed Drainie, is, I think, evi-
      dent, from the Celtic origin of the names of all the principal farms
      or promontories, such as Ardivat, Coulard, &c. descriptive of
      their locality; but when the Celts possessed it, or when the Picts
      first took possession of it, neither Roman nor British history de-
      termines.  Certain it is, that the Celts and their language were
      expelled at a very early period from the lowlands of Moray, and
      never were able to regain a footing in it, even after the Pictish
      kingdom was overthrown in the year 842.  But, though conquer-
      ed, the Picts were neither extirpated nor expelled; chieftains and
      nobles, no doubt, were, like those of Moray, killed, transferred, or
      banished ; but the idea of extirpation of the people is absurd.  The
      Picts, long before 842, had conquered Moray.  They contended, and
      often successfully, not only against Malcolm I., but against all the
      Malcolms who sat upon the Scottish throne.  They then held
      Moray, and their descendants still hold it.  They then spoke the
      Pictish, which is nothing else than a dialect of the Danish or Norwe-
      gian, in otber words, what we still speak in Drainie,good broad Scotch.

          ELGIN.                                  K


