
                        PARISH OF HERIOT.

     PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                  THE REV. ROBERT COURT, MINISTER.*

       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Extent and Boundaries.-The figure of this parish is an oblong
square form, extending geographically 6 1/2 miles by 3 5/8.  It contains
23 5/8 square miles, and is bounded on the souhb, by Stow; on the
west, by Inverleithen; on the north, by Temple and Borthwick;
and on the east, by Stow and part of Fala.  It is strictly pastoral,
and way well be denominated a parish of hills; one acre in ten
only being arable.  The highest hill is that of Blackup Scars, on
the north-west point, and is the most lofty in the county, being
2193 feet above the level of the sea, and not less, I should think,
than 1000 above the stream at its base.  The next to it is that
of Dewar, in the southwest corner, which is 1654 feet in height.
These hills are called the Moorfoot, and are a branch of the Lam-
mermuir and Soutra, from the east, stretching toward Peebles on
the west.  The land on the banks of the Heriot is rich and fertile,
and, where well farmed, extremely productive.  The want of a
suitable road to the top of the parish for the conveyance of lime
has been long felt; and if ever accomplished, must enhance con-
siderably the value of property, there being many acres either
not at all or indifferently cultivated, for want of proper access;
and where lime has reached, there is the most marked difference.
  Climate.-The climate, though cold, is extremely salubrious,
and many of the inhabitants arrive at a good old age.  The
healthy aspect of the children, especially, has often attracted the
notice of strangers.
  Hydrography.  Heriot Water is the principal stream. It rises
in the north-west end of the parish, and after a circuitous course
of upwards of five miles, unites with the Gala, exactly at the eastern

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late Incumbent, the Rev.  Edward Hume, and revised by the
present Incumbent, the Rev. Robert Court.


