
18                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

can earn wages sufficient to enable them to live comfortably with
out overworking themselves. Others are employed in making
patterns for the moulders, in dressing the articles when moulded,
in fitting their various parts together, and finishing them for sale.
They are not generally so well paid as the moulders. No branch
of these employments is considered more detrimental to health
than other trades, and no disease is peculiar to them. The most
common complaints are, fever, a disease called blackspit, and
other epidemical disorders; but to these they are subject only in
comnon with other workmen in the neighbourhood. Many of
them attain an advanced period of life.*
  Nail Manufactories.-Of these there are two in the village of
Camelon, being the chief branch of trade carried on there. It
was introduced about fifty years ago by Mr Cadell of Carronpark,
who brought persons from England versant in the business, and
who, by teaching others, have handed it down until the present
time. About 250 men and boys are employed. The men get
out nail-rods from the master, and return the produce in nails.
The shops and all working tools and utensils are furnished by the
employers, who also provide dwelling-houses for the married men
and their families. The men work from five to five and a-half
days in the week, each day consisting of ten hours. The remu-
neration to nailers is as follows:-A man by himself gains from
9s. to 14s. per week; a man and boy under him, 14s. to 16s.;
a man with two boys, L.1 to L.1, 2s.; a man with three boys,
L.1, 8s. to L.1, 10s. They, however, find themselves in coals,
which may cost each man 6d. per week or thereby. The em-
ployment is by no means unhealthy, and the workmen are less
Subject to disease than those employed in cotton or similar facto-
ries. The morals of the nailers have been improved within the
last few years. In particular, drunkenness and habits of impro-
vidence are greatly on the decrease. In 1833, the cholera cut
off so many of this class of people, that Mr Fairbairn found it
necessary to advance L.40 for the purpose Df intennents, which
has been repaid from the earnings of survivors, and a fund to the
same amount accumulated to answer future emergencies.+
  Collieries.--In the parish, there are three of these in operation,
all to the south of the town of Falkirk. At one of them, the min-
ing operations and the making of charcoal are carried on to such an

<FOOTNOTE>Communication from G. Hardie, Esq.
          Communication from G. Fairbairn, Esq.


