
512                   RENFREWSHIRE.

is in good repair, and is occupied by Captain Darroch, his eldest
son, and next heir to the estates of Gourock and Drums.
  Mr Cuninghame Graham of Gartmore is now proprietor of
the estates of the ancient Earls of Glencairn, (originally Cuning-
hames. of Kilmaurs), being their lineal descendant and represen-
tative. Mr Boutine of Ardoch, his eldest son occasionally resides
at Finlaystone,
   The present mansion-house is of modern but is built on
the site of the ancient castle of Finlaystone, where, under the pa-
tronage of Alexander, Earl of Glencairn, the famous John Knox
administered, for the first time, the sacrament of the Lord's Sup-
per after the Reformation. The cups which were used on that
occasion were carefully kept by the family, and were lent on sa-
cramental occasions for the celebration of the Lord's Supper in
the parish church of Kilmalcolm. Whether these valuable relics
are still extant, and if so, in whose possession they now are, is not
well-known; report, however, says, that the last Lady Glencairn
on leaving Scotland took them with her to England.
   Mrs Aytoun bf Inchdarnie, only daughter of Dr James Jeffray,
Professor of Anatomy in the University of Glasgow, and Mary
Brisbane, his first wife, is the representative of the family of Pa-
tersons of Craigton, having succeeded to the property in 1817, on
the death of her aunt, Miss Anne Paterson, at the advanced age
of ninety-seven.
   Mr Maxwell of Dargavel is the representative of two very ancient
families in Renfrewshire, the Maxwells of Dargavel, and the Halls
of Fulbar. The family of Hall obtained possession of Fulbar by
charter, from James, High Steward of Scotland, the grandfather
of King Robert IL, which was confirmed by a corroborative char-
ter from Robert II. in 1370; and one of its descendants followed
King James IV. to the ill-fated battle of Flodden, and fell there.
The family of Maxwell wRs a cadet, but now represents the house
of Newark. The eldest son of Patrick Maxwell of Newark, by
his second wife, obtained a charter of the lands of Dargavel, along
with those of Rashilee and Haltonridge, in the neighbouring pa-
rishes bf Inchinnan and Kilmalcolm, from his  father in 1516.
One of his descesdants was slain, in the  desperate conflict
which took place at Lockerby, between the rival clans of Max-
well and Johnstone. John Maxwell, the proprietor of Dargavel,
as the beginning of last century, entailed that estate, but, as both
he and his brother, William Maxwell of Freeland, died without


