
           410                      RENFREWSHIRE.

           the "Through-let" being quite insufficient in its present state to
           admit of vessels of any considerable burden passing that way.  The
           width of the channel, opposite to the harbour of Greenock, does
           not much exceed 300 yards.  Ascending it rapidly diminishes in
           width,-a circumstance Which,:but for the application of steam to
           the towing of ships, must have presented for ever an insuperable
           obstacle to the progress of the trade of Glasgow. It is supposed
           that, of late years, the sand-bank has increased, in consequence of
           the operations necessary for deepening the upper part of the river,,
           -and that the channel has been contracted proportionally.  No ex-
           act survey having been made till very recently, the truth on these
           points has not yet been ascertained.  The subject, however, being
           -one, of the greatest magnitude, with reference to the trade of the
           river generall , has most justly attracted the attention of the cor-
           poration and town of Greenock.  Besides employing a civil en-
           gineer to take the roundings minutely, Her Majesty's Government
           have consented, at their solicitation, to make a complete survey of
           the river, at the public expense.    In a very short time it will be
           known whether the deposition of sand from the upper part of the
           river be producing any perceptible ebaDge in the state of the chan-
           nel.  Meanwhile, it is understood to be in contemplation to erect
           a break-water on t 'be island above described, to protect the bar-
           bour from the northeasterly gales; and also to adopt such mea-
           Sures as may be deemed expedient for arresting the evil with which
           the trade is supposed to be threatened from the other cause which
           has now been mentioned.
             Geology and Mineralogy.-Greenookis situated in that extensive
           district of floetz-trap rocks, which stretches almost from the river
           Cart downwards to the neighbourhood of Saltcoats -a distance of
           nearl fifty miles. T. he stratified rocks which form the basis extend
           in some places to abeight of M' ore than I 00feet above the level of the
           sea, and are theremet and overtoppedby the secondarygreenstone of
           which all the eminences in. the neighbourhood are composed.  The
           strata generally dip at a very small angle towards the south or south-
           east and present no remarkable dislocations.  They are however
           several places, as$ for example, in the neighbourhood of Fort Ma-
           tida intersected by dikes both of greenstone and a peculiarly soft
           lay-stone.  In the upper part of the parish, we find beds of a red,
           and also of a greenish marly elaiyp alternating with the sandstone
            A fort. or batt;ry on the shore near the western extremity. of the parish.


