
     Of Speymouth.

   There are no remains of antiquity within the parish
that deserve notice.  The language here spoken is the

<FOOTNOTE>

with his army over the Spey, and here they made their submission at the in-
tercession of the priests, and on seeing the resolution of the Royal army, in at-
tempting and passing through the river-(Buchman)
   Another army of rebels, in the year 1110, halted at the mouth of Spey, with
a determination to dispute the passage of King Alexander I., who was pursuing
them.  The king forced the passage, and ordered Alexander Scrimger to at-
tack the enemy with a part of his army, who routed them, and put them to
flight.-(Ibid)
   In the year 1160, near the mouth of the same river, and on the moor be-
tween Speymouth and Urquhart, as is supposed, a rebellion of a still more seri-
ous aspect was quelled, by a victory gained by Malcolm IV over the people
of Murray, when the whole army of the rebels was cut to pieces, after
which the chief families of the province, and all who were concerned in the
rebelion, (as being, according to Buchanan, " a people of a turbulent dis-
position,") were removed and dispersed through other pats of the king-
dom; and others from different parts were transplanted into Murray in
their room-(Ibid.) King Charles II landed at Speymouth from Holland
in the year 1650.  Some say, he arrived first at Cromarty.  It is certain,
however, he came by sea to Spey, as the descendents of a man of the
name of Milne, who carried his Majesty on shore, are still in Garmouth,
and are distinguished from others of that name, in the same place, by the
name of King Milnes from that circumstance.  He was here received by
the Laid of Innes, and other gentlemen, and dined with the factor of
Lord Dumfermling, who lived in Garmouth, in a house which was only late-
ly taken down; and here it probably was, that he was made to sign the cog-
nant.  In spring 1746, the rebels, on their return from the S., collected in
great numbers on the banks of Spey, and the manse of Speymouth b came, for
some time, according to an account left by the minister of that period, their
head quarters on Spey; and several of their principal officers, as Lord John
Drummond, the Duke of Perth, Lords Kilmarnock, Balmerinoch, Secretary
Murray, put up in it, and many others frequented it.  This, the minister ob-
serves, was expensive to him, but they used him very civilly, and gave him no
disturbance in point of principle, only there was no public worship during
their stay.  It appears from this, as well as from what they themselves gave
out at the time, that they meant to have made a stand at Spey against the
King's army; and this the Duke of Cumberland expected.  And there is no
doubt, that it was the place for them to have tried their strength; but a want


