
44				BUTESHIRE.

er above it. This rock is found in great abundance from Machry
to Drumidoon, and also at the eastern extermity of the parish. The
beds are usually of great thickness, and very much inclined as they
approach the primary sandstone.
	White sandstone,a variety considered by some as distinct from
the former, lines the coast on the east side of the parish. It con-
sists of numerous beds a few feet in thickness, separated by thin
layers of shiver. The thickness of all this series of beds combin-
ed cannot be less than 1000 feet. This species of rock is very
extensively distributed, extending along the shore from Shisken to
Dippen, a distance along the coast of twelve miles, and throughout
its whole course is visible, save when covered with overlying rocks,
such as porphyry, or trap, or when intersected by veins of basalt.
It is not confined to the sea shore, but extends backward into the
interior, beneath the secondary hills, to the other side of the is-
land, as may be seen where the water courses have worn away the
overlying soil or rock. The dip of the strata is to the south, and
varies from an angel of 20&deg; to 48&deg;.
	Trap Rock.--The varieties of this class of rocks extend over the
secondary sandstone, and are so numerous, and pass into each
other in such a manner, that it would be more than useless to at-
tempt, a description of all that mineralogists have enumerated, and
which are to be found in this parish.
	Greenstone abounds most about Dippen rocks.
	Dikes of basalt and grennstone interest the whole southern
shore.
	The variety of trap calles clinkstone abounds in Pladda, and in
the hills of the adjacent part of the island.
	Porphyries.--All the above varieties of trap rocks have their
porphyries near the same locality. The variety most worthy of
notice is that called clinkstone porphyry, which is of a grey co-
lour, and found on the farm of Drumidoon, and the hill to the
south of it called the Brownhead.
	Pitchstone porphyry is a striking feature in the mineralogy of
Arran. It is found in great abundance in the vicisity of King's
Cove, and Tormore in veins of great thickness. It sometimes
seems to approximate in character to what is by some called hon-
stone.
	Limestone is found in two or three palaces in the parish. The
bads about shirken, especially at Glenloig, and Clanchan glen,
are well worth working. In those the time aproaches to almost


