
                     TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                      457

the session clerkship, which are, however, trifling.  But the school-
masters in this and the two neighbouring counties of Banff and
Moray have, within these few years, received very considerable
addition to their incomes, by a noble bequest from a Mr Dick
of London, whose parents resided in or near Keith.  The benefit
of the fund which he established for this purpose, with a view, as
he himself states, of raising the standard of literature, and advan-
cing the comfort of this useful and meritorious class within the
three counties mentioned and which is under the management
of a certain number of writers to the Signet at Edinburgh,
is confined to the parish schools.  The annual division of the in-
terest of the fund has hitherto been regulated by an attention
to other circumstances, besides that of the number of schools,
such as the number of scholars at each school, success of the
teacher, &c.  The revenue, if equally divided, would afford,
it is believed, from L. 25 to L. 30 Sterling per annum to each
schoolmaster.
   It is with much pleasure that the writer bears witness to the fa-
vourable state of education in the parish.  There prevails on the
part of parents a sincere wish to avail themselves of the important
benefits for their children which are placed within their reach.
Where the parents are poor, care is taken to remove, in a way
the least hurtful to their feelings, the obstacle which inability to
pay the customary fees might otherwise oppose to the attendance
of their families at school.  It has now become the practice to
commence their education at a more early period of life than be-
fore, and thus there is time for instruction in the common branches
of reading and writing, with perhaps a little arithmetic, before the
children are able to do anything for themselves.  Here, and it is
to be hoped that a similar declaration can with justice be made
in reference to every other parish-school in Scotland, the great
truth is ever kept in view, that education, to be useful, in rearing
good and virtuous citizens, must be based on religion.
   A juvenile library has recently been established for the use of
the scholars, and promises to be attended with much good.  There
are in the parish two female teachers of sewing and dress-making,
Neither of them enjoy any salary.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number for the last
five years, of those who have received regular aid, is 8; but in ad-
dition to these, considerable numbers have received occasional sup-
plies.  Of collections at church, this average annual for


