
                      TURRIFF.                                991

   Delgaty, by much the largest and most valuable property in the
parish, when it went out of the hands of the Errol family, eighty
years ago, was bought by Peter Garden, Esq., and sold by his
son, Francis, in 1798, to the late James Earl of Fife.
   In 1723, the estate of Balquholly was sold by the Mowats, (to
whom Robert I. granted the lands of Lescragy, Colp, &c.) to
Alexander Duff of Hatton, whose grandson, Garden Duff, Esq.
is the preseiit proprietor.
   In 1726, the estate of Fintray, then belonging to the Forbeses
of Touchon, was bougbt by Lord Braco, and is now the property
of his grandson, the Earl of Fife.
   The estates of Laithers and Dorlaithers, which had been long
in the possession of Dempster of Auehterless and others, and
more recently of John Morison, Esq. is now subdivided, and has
become the property of Alexander Stuart, John Adam, Alexander
Rae, Alexander Bremner, James, Donald, and George Chalmers,
Esquires, and of the Reverend Messrs William Robinson Pirie,
James Milne, and John Webster.
   The estate of Towie, which had been the property of the Bar-
clays for 400 years and upwards, was sold by a descendant of that
family to the Earl of Findlater, whose son sold it in 1762, to
the managers of Gordon's Hospital, and the Infirmary at Aber-
deen, and it continues to be held by them.
   In 1767, the estate of Muiresk was disposed of by James Bro-
die to Alexander Diron, sheriff-substitute of Banffshire, and,
after passing through different hands, now belongs to James Bro.
die Spottiswood, Esq.
   Gask, which belonged of old to the Forbeses, and more lately
to the Fordyces, afterwards to J. Mackie, G. Robinson, and Wil-
liam Rose, Esquires, was purchased by James Earl of Fife about
forty years ago, and remains in his family.
   The lands of Plaidy in this parish are the property of William
Urquhart, Esq. of Craigston, whose principal estate and residence
are situated in the adjoining parish of King-Edward.
   The valued rent of the parish is L.5159, 2s. 10d. Scots, and is
divided as under:-

<TABLE>
    Trustees of the late James Earl of Fife,    .      L.2150 17 10
    Garden Duff, Esq. of Hatton, &c.,     .     .        1124 78  0
    J. B. Spottiswoood of Muiresk, Esq.   .     .         400  0  0
    Right Honourable the Earl of Fife,    .     .         333  6  8
    Alexander Stuart of Laithers, Esq.    .     .         286 15  7
    John Adam of Scobbach and Alexander Rae of
	Ardmiddle, Esqrs.             .     .     .         213  7 11


