
     Statistica1 Account

seeing their horses make a better appearance, or whether
they find that they enhance the value of the animal, in the
full proportion of the additional food given it, allow their
horses more oats than formerly; and secondly, the number
of horses, and the demand for oats to feed them, having
greatly increased in the country of late years, husbandmen
frequently find it more advantageous to sell their oats unma-
nufactured, than to make them into meal, especially in back-
ward seasons, when the oats are less productive.  The barley
of this parish has been esteemed of a good quality, not in-
deed large bodied, but plump and thin husked.  Upon the
sale of this grain the farmers formerly chiefly depended for
payment of their rents; but it is a fact, not less remarkable,
nor less difficult to be accounted for, that the quantity of it
produced is also diminished.  The concurring testimony of
every husbandman advanced in life confirms this fact.
Undoubtedly, therefore, either the seasons of late must have
been unfavourable to cultivation, or a less accurate and dili-
gent culture must now prevail.  Probably both must be ta-
ken into the account.  While the cold backward springs
have discouraged the delicate growth of the new sprung crop,
the roots of the various kinds of hardy weeds, which have
been allowed to accumulate in the soil from defective cul-
ture, have sprung up to choke it.  Pease seldom prove a va-
luable crop in this parish.  They are frequently either over-
run by the numerous weeds which thrive greatly in the light
soil, or pushed too much to straw by the latter rains, and yield
little grain.  Such has been so much the case of late years, that
the husbandmen have been greatly discouraged in cultivating
them, and many sow fewer than formerly.  There is but a
small part of this parish on which it has been thought pru-
dent to attempt the culture of beans.  Flax is only cultivated
in small quantities for domestic use; but from the valuable


