
180	                       LANARKSHIRE.

	The business of the university commenced on the 21st of Sep-
tember 1796 by Dr Garnet's reading in the Trades Hall to persons
of both sexes popular and scientific lectures on natural philosophy
and chemistry, illustrated by experiments. Soon after this period,
the managers rented, and then purchased, extensive premises in
John Street. Dr Garnet having been appointed Professor of Ex-
perimental Philosophy and Chemistry in the Royal Institution of
London, which had been formed on the model of this primary one,
resigned his professorship, and, on the 18th of October 1799, Dr
George Birkbeck was appointed as his successor. In addition to
what had been formerly taught, he introduced a familiar system of
instruction, which he demonstrated by experiments free of expense.
About 500 operatives attended this class, the greater part of whom
were recommended by Dr William Anderson and Dr James Cle-
land. This mode of tuition, by which philosophical subjects are
explained in ordinary language, divested of technicalities beyond
the comprehension of the student, is continued with great suc-
cess, at a small expense, and has been productive of the happiest
effects to a valuable class of society. Dr Birkbeck resigned his
professorship on the 5th of August 1804, and returned to London.
Dr Andrew Ure was appointed his successor on the 21st of the
following month, and, during a period of twenty-five years, dis-
charged the duties of his office with great ability, when he also
went to London to reside.
	The affairs of the university becoming more and more prosper-
ous, the, trustees purchased from the city the grammar-school
buildings fronting George Street, and having made considerable
additions and alterations, the premises now contain numerous halls
for the classes and for the museum, which has of late become
very rich in its several departments. The university buildings
were opened in November 1828, since which time the classes have
been well attended, and, soirees have been introduced with the hap-
piest effect. The professions in 1835, are first, literature, philoso-
phy and popular science: Classes, natural philosophy, logic, ethics,
rhetoric, mathematics, natural historyt modern languages, oriental
languages, drawing and painting in oil and water colours and po-
pular lectures on the veterinary art; and secondly, Medicine: clas-
ses, surgery, chemistry, medical jurisprudence, theory of medicine,
anatomy, physiology, and midwifery.
	Mechanics Institution for the Promotion of the Arts and Sciences.
--This society was formed in 1823, by the mechanics of Glasgow;
with the view of disseminating mechanical and scientific knowledge


