
   326                      BANFFSHIRE.

   into the crevices of the building, so effectually united the whole,
   that the remains of the cement, which are occasionally to be
   found, appear to be almost as strong as the solid rock.  These fortresses
   appear to have been occupied by the chiefs and proprietors
   of the adjacent soil, as places of safety, in those barbarous
   and unsettled times, which rendered such erections necessary.
   It is traditionally reported, that this castle was originally
   the residence of the proprietors of Cullen and the adjacent
   grounds; and if such were the case, it is not improbable that
   the Queen of Robert de Bruce may have died in it.  A farther
   tradition respecting it (there being Do record whatever) is,
   that it was a military fortress, occupied by the Scottish forces
   about the time of the invasion of the Danes, and when an enemy
   appeared, the inhabitants of Cullen carried their most valuable articles
   into the castle for safety.  Before the use of cannon, the
   Castle-hill was extremely well situated for warlike operations,
   being inaccessible from the north by an almost perpendicular rock
   of 170 feet in height.
     Ecclesiastical History and Antiquities.-The present parish
   church was originally dedicated to St Mary, and is of considerable
   antiquity.  The following is an excerpt from an unpublished
   manuscript, entitled,  " A view of the Diocese of Aberdeen :"
   " Church of Saint Mary of Cullen.  This church was founded by
   Robert I., and it is said that the bowels of his Queen Elizabeth
   are buried here.  This church had a provost, six prebends, and
   two singing boys, founded by Alexander Ogilvie of that Ilk, predecessor
   of the Earl of Findlater, Mr Alexander Dick, Archbishop
   of Glasgow, John Duff of Muldavit, ancestor of Lord Fife, with
   all the magistrates of Cullen, an. 1543.  This foundation was confirmed
   by  William Bishop of Aberdeen, the same year, and by
   John Archbishop of St Andrews, legat a latere, 1552. Each of the
   clergy was to have twenty merks yearly in lands and money, together
   with an apartment and garden.  For this end, they had several
   crofts allotted to tbernlin the town, together with the vicarage
   of Rathven, with all the privileges belonging to the burghers of
   Cullen."  Agreeably to the above statement regarding the foundation
   of the church of Cullen, it appears from  the charter of the
   burglh, that "Robert of Bruce, King of the Scotch, granted and
   gave in gift for ever, L. 5 of the money of the kingdom, (i. e.
   8s-Ad.  Sterling,) for the support of a chaplain in the parish church
   of the blessed Mary, of our burgh of Cullen, always to pray for


