
90                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

places, seems to have been chiefly used as hunting-ground. At
the head of Lochlomond stands Benlui, (Fawn's hill,) where the
deer had their coverts, and reared their young. When roused
from their lair, the generally directed their course along the
east bank of the lake. At Chonan-nish, where the ground became
somewhat level and practicable, there the chase began ; hence its
name signifying, now for the dogs! If the pursuit were unsuc-
cessftil along the skirts of Benlomond, it often had a melancholy
conclusion at Conichill, which forms the southern acclivity of the
Grampian range, and whose abrupt precipices were fatal to the
eager dogs; Conichill, or more properly Chonnakill, signifying
the dog's grave. The most striking object is Beulomond. On the                                                           north, it is precipitous ; on the soutb, setting out from the Inn of
north, it is precipitous; on the south, setting out from the Inn of
Rowardeninan, on the bank of the lake, you ascend easily in three
hours, walking over a space of three miles. When you reach its
conical summit, overtopping every surrounding eminence, and ele-
vated 3000 feet above the level of the sea, you have on the north
an endless succession of mountains, like the billows of the stormy
ocean; and on the south, you have presented before you, as on a
map, the riches and beauty of the central district of Scotland, from
the Western Isles to the Frith of Forth.
   Islands.--Of the islands belonging to this parish, several are of
considerable extent and value. Inchcaileoch, * which once contain-
ed a nunnery and the parish church, is now, without house and in-
habitant covered with copse-wood. Inchfad and Inchcruin are ara-
ble and inhabited. Inchmurrin, the largest of the whole-being two
miles long and one broad-is the deer park of the Duke of Mon-
trose, containing about 200 fallow deer. The keeper cultivates
some ground around his house. At the west end of the island,
on a projecting eminence, are the ruins of a castle of the ancient
Earls of Lennox; near which is a modern lodge, erected by the
present family. There also are some islets, uninhabited, belong-
ing to Mrs, M. Buchanan of Ross.
   Lakes and Rivers.--There are three small lakes within the pa-
rish: but they attract no notice in the vicinity of Lochlomond,
whose beauties have been often described. It is 24 mile's long:

<FOOTNOTE>The names of places are Celtic. Inchaiacaileoch signifying, old woman's island;
Inchjad, long island; Inchcruin, round island; Inchmurrin the island of St Murrin,
who was, the tutelary saint of Paisley. The etymology, of Buchanan is uncertain.
Lochlomond is evidently the name with Lac us Leman-us of Helvetia, in the
time of Cesar. Lomond, signifies bare hill or beacon. Benlomoiid was reckoned
higher than, 3000 feet, till the recent Trigonometrical Survey of Scotland.


