

452                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.


On a clear day we have one of the most enchanting and extensive
views of the whole of the surrounding countries of Annandale, Esk-
dale, the English border, Solway Frith, part of the Irish sea, even
of the Isle of Man, and part of Nithsdale and Galloway. On the
north and south-sides of this hill, is a range of lesser ones; these
have an imposing and beautiful appearance, being now almost all
cultivated. They divine the east or high part of the parish from
the south or low part. At the southern extremity of this range is a
rising eminence called Mount Holly. Upon the banks of the Cor-
rie, is a small but beautiful hill named Corrie L`w, commanding
a pleasing and deep prospect beneath. These hills, though some of
them very steep, are mostly all cultivated and covered with grain,
potatoes, &c.
	Hydrography.--On the west side of the parish there are two
spring wells,--one called the chapel well, from its vicinity to the old
chapel of Beckton: its spring is of great size, being at the great-
est nearly 15 inches in circumference. The water is found to be
very light and uncommonly wholesome; it is supposed to be use-
ful in stomach complaints. The other, about three quarters of
a mile farther to the south-west, near the lake called the Old Caul-
dron from its depth, is called the Woodkin well. It was for-
merly esteemed very powerful in curing and preventing the effects
of witchcraft.
	The only stream in the parish is the Dryfe, though the Annan,
Corrie, and Milk, all touch it on their passage to the Solway Frith.
The Dryfe rises in the north end of the parish of Hutton, through
part of which it runs; and enters Dryfesdale, after passing a part of
Applegarth. It runs a course from north to south for about 2l miles,
emptying itself into the Annan, in a direct line between the mar-
ket-town of Lockerbie and the royal burgh of Lochmaben. It
is a small rivulet, and in moderate weather its water is pure and
clear. The bed is of a deep gravel, and therefore in dry seasons it
disappears at some partr for about a mile. But, in rainy weather, it
comes down in sudden and rapid swells, breaking down and overflow-
ing all its banks, so that nothing in the way can resist the impdtuosity
of the torrent. Sheep, pigs, even cattle, and trees torn from their
roots, have been seen floating on its surface.
	The Annan washes the parish on the west and south for the length
of 6 1/2 miles. It formerly afforded a plentiful supply of salmon,
herlings, and sea trout; but these are now very scarce, owing to
causes at present unknown. It abounds much in other small fish.


