
354                  ROXBURGSHIRE.

congeries of trap rocks, mostly covered with wood, which, with a
hold eminence, 721 feet in height above the level of the sea, over-
hang the valley of the Teviot. These heights form a ridge run-
ning lengthways east and west through the greater part of the pa-
rish. To the south of them, the ground slopes to the river, and is
farther diversified by some small glens or deans, watered by rivu-
lets. Here, as in a great part of the south of Scotland, much of
the most interesting scenery is concealed in these sequestered
dells. Two may be mentioned as prossessing much beauty, consider-
ing their scale and extent. The one, near the western boundary,
is partly clothed with native brushwood and trees, receding into
open glades; the rock in other places is exposed in preojecting
ledges, at the heats of summer, some deep pools; and having
almost an appearance of grandeur, when flooded in winter. This
pictureswue spot was scarcely accessible, ad comp`ratively little
known, till of late, when, under the direction of the present pro-
prietor of Teviot Bank, it has been laid open by judiciously
formed paths. The other glen is narrow, and has more the charac-
ter of a ravine. The upper part, by means of a head thrown accross
it, is formed into a piece of artificial water, which winds under the
steep and smooth bank, on the edge of which Minto House is si-
tuated, and has its margin inclosed by tall evergreens, yews, weep-
ing-willows, and several magnificent trees. The water, as it escapes,
forms a considerable cascade, and below this the dean assumes its
natural character, though still sufficiently intermixed with exotic
shrubs, and maintining enough of a dressed appearance to suit
the neighbourhood of a large residence. From he sheltered na-
ture of the situation, the treest thrive vigorously, and some of them
have reached an uncommon size; among these, may be mentioned
that most graceful of tall evergreens, the hemlock spruce, the
common spruce, silver-fir, several variesties of maple, and some-
larches, among the finest which are to be found in Scotland.
emerging from this closely wooded defile, a path leads at a little
distance to Minto Craigs, the most conspicous and interesting ob-
ject in this district. The lower part of the steep is strewn with
large masses of rock, dislodged from the precipice above, which,
with its irregular surface, covered with a greyish lichen, in some

<FOOTNOTE> Mr Kinghorn. The following levels are given as approaching nearer to correctness:
Bed of the Teviot at Spitalford above the sea, 197 feet; Minto House, above
ford, 194 feet; Minto Craigs above do. 524; Minto Hill above do. 680; Ruberslaw
above do. 1174 feet. In the above list, Ruberslaw was very accurately measured by
the precent, Earl of Minto, 1st, by the spirit level, 2d, trigonometrically, and 3d, baro-
metrically, the results by each method being precisely the same.


