
304                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

thoroughly imbued with the solemnities of Christian truth, that it al-
ways ministered instruction, and enabled him to enlighten and to edi-
fy his hearers. He was "a man on earth devoted to the skies," and,
from the fulness of a heart overflowing with love to God and to
his fellow-creatures, he spoke with an unction and a pathos which
carried captive the understanding and the affections to the obedi-
ence of the truth. Though now dead upwards of sixty-three years,
his memory is cherished with the highest veneration, and the re-
spect an reverence with which his primitive pastoral admonitions,
and profound doctrinal and experimental observations, have been
banded down, resemble more the regard with which we may con-
ceive the Jewish people to have listened to the predictions of their
prophets, than the attention ordinarily paid to the instructions of
uninspired men. Whilst minister of this parish, he was pre-emi-
nently popular; and the eburch of Kilmuir constituted a centre of
attraction to a large surrounding neigbbourbood, who hurried eager-
ly from different and widely distant parishes to hear this man of
God, and to hang upon his lips. He did the work of an evange-
list, and made full proof of his ministry. "He watched and pray-
ed-he wept and felt for all." His mortal remains are deposited
in the church-yard of Kilmuir, and in the close vicinity of that spot
in which he so long held forth the word of life, and cheered so of-
ten the Christian pilgrim in his journey toward Zion.

       How sleep the good who sink to rest
       By their country's washes blest.
       When spring with dewy fingers cold,
       Returns to deck their hallow'd mould,
       She there shall dress a sweeter sod
       Than fancy's feet bave ever trod.
       By angels' hands their knell is rung,
       By forms unseen their dirge is sung,
       There virtue comes, a pilgrim gray
       To bless the turf that wraps their clay,
       And piety shall still repair,
       To dwell a weeping hermit there.

In the autumn of 1833, this parish was deprived of one of its
most valuable members in the person of Donald Mitchell, who
died at an advanced age, after bavi been for upwards of thirty
years employed in the office of catechist. Though an illiterate
man, and not able to read even the Gaelic language until after
-his marriage, his views of divine truth were comprehensive, accu-
rate, and profound, and for many years he was an able instructor
to the young and rising generation. Diligent in duty, and clothed
with the dignity and the moral force of Christian character, he had
acquired the esteem and veneration of an extensive district of coun-


