
                          NEW MACHAR.                      1029

says, the incumbent, whose name it is not necessary to mention,
absconded for some open immorality.
      	Antiquities.--There is a stone in the court-yard of a farm in
the parish, on which tradition says that one of the early Kings of
Scotland (Malcolm Canmore) seated himself, being in these parts
with his army. Weary with marching, and overpowered with
thirst, he had water brought to him from a well in the immediate
neighbourbood, which proved so grateful and refreshing to the
exhausted energies of the monarch, that he pronounced nature's
beverage to be better than ale, or better than ill ale. From these
circumstances, the property on which this farm is, is called King-
seat, and the said well, the Betteral Well, i. e. the Better Ale
Well, to this day. At one time there were as many as four cha-
pels in this parish,-- St Colm's at Monykebbock; Virgin Mary's at
Clubsgoval; Virgin Mary's at Straloch, supposed to be built by the
Cheynes of Straloch; Virgin Mary's at Bishop's Manor, in Loch
Goul. The first of these, St Colm's, is at least 586 years old,
as appears from the Chartulary of Aberdeen, where, among the
other constitutions of Bishop Peter Ramsay (dated apud Aberdon,
14 Kal. Maii 1256), it is ordered that the Dean, being parson of
Kirkton, or Old Aberdeen, is obliged to maintain a chaplain and
clerk at Monycabock, as well as Kirkton. Connected with this
chapel, was a church-yard, which is still used as a place of inter-
ment. The site of the chapel at Straloch is near to the present
mansion-house, and is marked out by numerous fragments of the
building, by pieces of tomb-stones, of which the inscriptions are
in part legible, also by a well close by, called the Chapel Well.
      	Church.--The church was erected in 1791, and is sufficiently
neat, comfortable, and commodious.
       	Mansion-Houses.--The chief of these is Parkhill, the residence
of the principal heritor, who has also large properties in the ad-
joining parishes of Dyce and Old Machar. It is a commodious
handsome house, beautifully situated, and well sheltered by exten-
sive ornamental and valuable plantations. The lawn is extensive,
and finely diversified with wood and water; and the prospect up
the valley of the Don, terminated by the picturesque mountain of
Bennochie, is but rarely surpassed.
      	The next in importance is Straloch, the seat of Mr Ramsay of
Barra, once the property and residence of the well-know Gordon
of Straloch, so celebrated as a geographer and a man of science.
This residence has also many attractions, and, improving upon a


