
                           FORDYCE.                      185

   their instruction in this parish, have afterwards acquitted them-
   selves in a most creditable manner in the world, or are, at this
   moment, honourably filling stations of an important kind. Sir
   James Clark, presently Physician to Her Majesty, and Dr John
   Forbes, chief editor of the British and Foreign Medical Review,
   &c., add'now Physician Extraordinary to his Royal Highness
   Prince Albert, were both educated at the parochial school.
      Parochial Registers.-The registers of discipline have been re-
   gularly kept since 1658, and of baptisms since 1665. The mar-
   riage refister does not commence till 1723, since which time it
   appears to have been regular. The following notice of the
   ministers of Fordxce, since the Reformation, is taken from one
   of these registers :-
      Mr Gilbert Gairdn, it is said, 11 seldom went to the puli)it
   without his sword, for fear of the Papists." Mr Patrick Darg
   was minister for sixty-three years. David Abercromby, de-
   posed for drinking. William Blair, admitted in 1675, and trans-
   ported to Aberdeen ' in 1680. James Stuart came from Invera-
   ven in May 1681, and died in three years. Alexander Gallie
   came from Deskford in 1684, and died in 1715. Alexander Ir-
   vine came from Cullen in 1716, and iied in 1746. James Law-
   tie, ordained August 1747, and died August 24th 1791. Alex,
   ander Humphrey, ordained March 8th 1792, and died February
   13th 1832. John Innes, present incumbent, admitted from Or-
   diquhill September 6, 1832.
      The following is a list of the Presbyterian ministers in Portsoy
   from its first erection into a preaching station in 1741 :-viz. Mr
   John Yule, Mr James Ogilvie, Mr Thomas Mitchel, Mr Robert
   Ogilvie, Mr Btirnet, Mr Thomas Steel, Mr Walter Chalmers,
   Mr Abercromby Gordon, Mr James Kelly, Mr William Grant,
   Mr Daniel Cruickshank, and Mr Alexander Reid, the present in-
   cumbent, who was admitted June 18, 1829.
      Antiquhties.-The remains of the encampment on the hill of
   Durn are still visible; it would appear to have been originally of
   considerable extent; and is most probably to be referred to the
   time of the Danish invarions. There are other relies which seem,
   plainly to show that this parish had been the scene of repeated,
   hostile feuds; some of them perhaps arising from the incursion,
   of foreign enemies, and others from the not more welcome visits
   of Higland freebooters,desending on the richer plains. In addi-
   tion to what is stated in proof of this in the former Statistical


