
                           ERSKINE.                         505

had previously been led to suppose." Its colour is between honey
and orange yellow, rarely inclining towards brown and the colour
of the streak reddish orange. Its lustre is shining resinous,some-
what inclining to adamantine. It varies from semitramparent to
semitranslucent. Its hardness is about 3.5; its specific gravity
4.842,--and, so far as is known, it is the only separate ore  of
cadmium hitherto discovered.
  Soil.--The soil in this parish may be classified under the four
following heads:
  1. A light friable damp soil, incumbent on till, or hard stoney
clay.
  2. A light sharp dry soil, incumbent on whitestone rock or trap.
  3. A wet heavy soil, incumbent on clay.
  4. A peaty or vegetable soil.
Of these the two former are by far the most prevalent, and may
occupy about 95/100ths of the whole surface in about equal portions;
the third class may occupy about a 4/100th part; and. the fourth
class 1/100th part of the surface of the parish.
  Zoology.--The fox, the hare, and the mole are the three great-
est enemies the farmer has to contend with here they are so
abundant; and the rabbits have been increasing in number rapidly
of late years. Pheasants are preserved by several of the landed
proprietors, and are very plentiful. The roe.deer, from the Kil-
patrick bills, have been known to swim across the Clyde to the
park at Erskine; but they will not settle there, preferring the high
grounds further inland. The grouse and woodcock are found oc-
casionally in the parish but the partridge, snipe, wild-duck, wid-
geon, water-hen, and plover are tolerably abundant. In the woods
at Erskine, which overhang the Clyde, opposite the old Roman
fortress of Dunglass, there is a large heronry, which has existed
there for a great length of time, and which is the more interesting,
as, it is alleged, there are only one, or two more to be found in
Scotlan. It is a fine sight to observe these noble birds fishing
in the river at ebb-tide, and their success may be estimated from
the fact, that the walks under their nests are often strewed with
flounders and other fish, which they have not been able to use.
There are also two large rookeries in the parish. The owl and
the starling are found haunting about old mansion-houses and
ruins, and the common varieties of singing-birds, from the black-
bird to the wren, frequent the gardens in most destructive abund-
ance.


