

			PORTPATRICK.			131

miles in breadth, and stretching six miles in length between Loch-
Ryan and the wide open Bay of Luce. This tract of country is
beautified by stripes and masses of plantation, chiefty belonging to
the Earl of Stair. It is enlivened by the near view of Stranraer,
immediatley under our left, at the nearest angle of Loch-Ryan,--by
a peep of Castle Kennedy and its lakes, about a mile inland from
the more remote angle,--by the small village of Lochans, imme-
diately below,--and by the parish church of Stonykirk, near to the
bay of Luce, and seen over the plantations of Garthland to our
rigth. Whether the English coast of Cumberland can be seen
unddr a clear sky in the horizon beyond the Bay of Luce is doubt-
ful; but several curious black rocks rise distinctly from the sea
in the distance. To the right, the southern limit of the peninsula
stretches out from below us, in a long narrow but hilly stripe to
the Mull of Galloway, over whibh, and extending to the east and
west of it, the high mountains of the Isle of Man appear. As we
continue our survey towards the right and look westward, the very
beautiful panorama is completed by the Irish Channel, with the
Irish coast seen extending for seventy miles on the farther side, and
varied by the Mourne mountains to the south, by the lower lying
lands of Downshire, and the town of Donaghadee right opposite
to us, and by the bold continuous mass of the Antrim hills, stretch-
ing to the north. The fore-ground of this view is the wildest part
of Portpatrick parish. The high ground, which dips abruptly close
to the shore, conceals the harbour and the town. Any one, who
desires to obtain a correct idea of the geography of the parish, and
of the Rhins of Galloway, and, at the same time, to enjoy a pleasant
prospect, ought not to omit, when the weather is clear, to visit the
top of Cairnpat, which is not half a mile from the turnpike road
leading from Portpatrick to Stranraer.
	The Coast, &c.--Along the whole line of sea coast included in
this parish, rugged rocks and cliffs (commonly called heughs,)
rise abruptly from deep water, and are, in some places, perpendi-
cular to the height of 130 feet. Down the less precipitous of these,
very young children often scramble to perilous fishing seats, which
they select according to the time of the tide, and which have been
long known by names, such as Slogan a glassin, Greggary, Eilena
garroch, Catevennan, Catelig, Ringwee, Eilafitz, Slogan a baa,
&c. In front of the cliffs, and opening in deep water, are seve-
ral caves or vaulted fissures, but of no great extent, in which wild


