
           184                           ELGINSHIRE.

           being situated on an island of a lake of that name, part of which
           is within this parish, and in the last Statistical Account, as well
           as in other records, having been treated of as belonging to it, some
           notice of it may be here expected. The remains of this castle
           occupy a space of about eighty square yards, and bear marks of
           having been a place of great strength. In 1303, Edward I. of
           England took possession of it on his way to Inverness, and on his
           return resided here for some time, where, and at Kinloss, he re-
           ceived the submission of the northern parts of the kingdom. In
           1336, it was the residence of Catherine de Beaumont, widow of
           David de Hastings, Earl of Atholl, and "other ladyis that
           were luvely," when it was blockaded by Sir Andrew Moray,
           (successor in the Regency of Scotland to Douglas, who was killed
           at Halidon Hill,) but who, on the approach of Edward III. with
           a chosen body of his army, retreated to his castle at Darnaway.
           Of that retreat of Sir Andrew Moray's, Sir Walter Scott, in a
           letter to Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, as stated in a note of that
           gentleman's work already referred to, says, that it was one of the
           finest actions of the period, and most characteristic of Scottish
           generalship. The only farther authentic information we have of
           the Castle of Lochindorb is, that it was left garrisoned by Edward,
           -was the place of imprisonment and death of the celebrated
           William Bullock. a favourite of David Bruce, in 1342,-that it
           passed from. the Earl of Moray into the hands of Campbell of
           Cawdor in 1606, and has been for at least a century past the pro-
           perty of the Earl of Seafield.
             The Castle of Duniphail is also a fortress of considerable anth-
           quity, though little can be learned either from history or tradition
           respecting it. Its ruins occupy a considerable space of the sum-
           mit of a steep conical hill, only accessible by one side, with a deep
           narrow ravine, of a very romantic description encompassing three-
           fourths of its base, which is supposed to have been, in ancient
           times the channel of the Divid, though its present course is 60
           feet lower, and 150 yards to the west, After the battle of "The
           Lost Standard," the castle was besieged by Randolph Earl of
           Moray, the first Regent of Scotland during the minority of David
           Bruce, and gallantly defended: by Cumin, the proprietor. In the
           course of that siege, some incidents occurred characteristic at once
           of the bravery and barbarity of the age. Allastair Bane, son of
           Cumin, and a man who-had-distinguished himself by extraordinary
           deeds of valour, being no longer able to cope with the enemy in

						3


