
478                        AYRSHIRE.

of coal, 2 1/2 feet thick, immediately under the lower bed of whin-
stone. The direction of the dip is to the north-west, and the
average thickness of the seam is about 4 feet. The quality of the
coal is good, though sometimes a little sulphurous. A man will
put out two tons of coal in the day, and will earn from 3s. to 4s.
The lordship is a sixth of the gross out-put; and a fifth part of
the coal is left for supports. There are few cross dikes. Some
years ago, in sinking for coal, near the banks of the Lugar, a bed
of marine shells was found, 14 fathoms from the surface, sunk in
strong blue blaize. The shells were of the size of muscles, and
were of a bluish-gray colour. A petrified shrub was also found in
a bed of freestone, about 26 fathoms from the surface.
   Blind coal is also wrought in the same quarter of the parish,
though higher up. The field is troubled and irregular, and not
very extensive. It is sometimes intersected by cross dikes of
free and whinstone. The dip is 8 fathoms, and its direction is to
the northwest. The quality is good, and the thickness of the
seam is 4 feet. It is used by millers for drying grain on the kiln,
and likewise in hot-houses, because it emits no smoke when ignited.
  Zoology.--In addition to the common species of the feathered
tribe, which we have in great abundance--grouse, partridges, phea-
sants, snipes, and wild ducks are also plentiful. Woodcocks like-
wise visit us annually in considerable numbers. The black-cock
has very much increased within these ten years, and is now plenti-
ful, though very shy in coming within the range of the sportsman's
fowling-piece. We have also the common horned owl, the screech
owl with its gray plumage, and the white owl. The starling has
begun to visit us lately, but is as yet a rare bird in this quarter.
   The lake already noticed abounds in Pike, perches, and eels.
There is also plenty of trout in the Lugar; and in former years,
salmon used to come up In the end of the season, to spawn, in
considerable numbers; but now, few or none are seen, owing, I be-
lieve, to a dam that has been made in the river at Ayr.
    The caterpillar does not seem to be so abundant, or so destruc-
tive in its ravages, here, as in many other parts of the country.
   Wood-Plantations.--The parish is well wooded, and the follo-
ing is a list of some of the trees that are found in it; oak, ash, elm,
beech, plane, Scotch fir, spruce, silver fir, Weymouth pine, Balm
of Gilead, saugh of many kinds, poplar, mountain asb, yew-tree
holly, birch, sweet chestnut, horse chestnut, lime-free, lareb, thorn-
tree, evergreen oak, crab-tree, Lombardy poplar, scarlet beech,
				  4


