
604                        ARGYLESHIRE.

extensive dimensions, and to correspond with the portion of it extant,
the tower, the style of its architecture  must have been respectable.
The tower is square, and stands about forty feet in height, and
contains within a stair of peculiar construction, built on geometri-
cal principles, of which it is thought there are but very few speci-
mens to be found in the architecture of the period. It is partly of Kil-
faced by the gradual decay of the masonry. The place of Kil-
mun is also known as the place of sepulture of the Argyle family.
According to Douglas, in his peerage of Scotland, Sir Duncan
Campbell, afterwards Lord Campbell, and grandfather of Colin,
the first Earl of Argyle, is stated as the first of the family in-
terred at Kilmun. But even from the terms of the grant found-
ing the collegiate church, there is ground to believe that it had
been the family's place of burial prior to the date of this grant in
1442. There is evidence of Sir Gillespick or Archibald Camp-
bell of Lochow having obtained a grant of the lands of Kilinun,
prior to 1343; and his son, Sir Colin Campbell of Lochow, ap-
pears to have received " from King Robert II. a charter of se-
veral lands in Cowal, which had pertained to John Stewart of
Auchingown, his Majesty's natural son, dated 20th June 1404.
He had also from Robert, Duke of Albany, a charter of the lands
of Strathachy, (evidently Strizth-eachaig, forming the greater part
of the parish of Kilmun, according to designation in popular local
usage,) within the barony of Cowal Stewart." While these proofs
evince the time and manner of the Argyle family obtaining pos-
sessions in this district, popular tradition ascribes the commence-
ment of the family's sepulture at Kilmun to a still earlier period,
while yet the Lamonts held the territorial ascendancy of Cowal
undisturbed. A rude verse, in Gaelic, uttered on the occasion
of this right of sepulture being granted by Lamont to the family
of Lochawe, is still repeated by the Seanachies of the district.
In this verse, Lamont describes himself as " the great Lamont of
all Cowal," and the right is granted " to the knight of Lochawe-
side," in consideration of present necessity, for the interment of
the knight's son, who is reported, by the same traditionary evi-
dence, to have died in the low country; and his remains having
been carried by sea to Kilmun, and a continued snow storm hav-
ing rendered its conveyance to the family burying-ground at home
impracticable, this grant was sought by the knight of Loch-
awe, and conceded by " the great Lamont of all Cowal." This
tradition receives some countenance in the fact of the family of


