                                       PDRTH.                           5

      at the period when the strata were shifted from their horizontal po-
      sition; their cavities being at the same time filled up by the melt-
      ed matter, which flowed into. them from the principal mass of
      the fused trap.  In accordance with this hypothesis of the origin
      of whin dikes, it is uniformly observed that the stratum of
      sandstone, in contact with the trap, exhibits a more compact and
      crystalline aspect; the siliceous particles being more intimately
      blended with the mica, and other substances of which the sand-
      stone is composed, and converted into a homogeneous rock of great
      hardness; while the dip of the stratification,. at the distance of a
      few yards from the vein, is considerably altered, so as to exhibit,
      within the compass of several feet, a great variety of inclination.
         The hill of Monecrieff is almost entirely composed of compact trap,
      or greenstone, which on the south side exhibits a columnar structure,
      Ndar its western extremity, patches of conglomerate make their
      appearance, but it is difficult to trace either their thickness or ex-
      tent.  On the western side of the great Edinburgh road, detach-
      ed rounded hills, also of the trap family, and occasionally present-
      inf an abrupt face of moderate elevation, towards the south-west,
      stretch onward to the western boundaries of the parish.  These
      rocky eminences sometimes graduate into conglomerate, the nodu-
      les of which are always more firmly united at the line of junction;
      and frequently they betray the most unequivocal symptoms of hav-
      ing been exposed to igneous action. At other times, the basalt
      passes by degrees into the rocks of a porpbyritic structure, which
      are usually associated with trap;  felspar and augite being the
      more common ingredients in their composition.  In some cases
      veins of cale-spar, varying from a small fraction of an inch to se-
      veral inches in width, traverse the more compact rocks; and oc-
      casionally these calcareous veins include detached angular portions
      of the principal rock through which they are disseminated.
         Conglomerate.-An immense bed of conglomerate, composed
      chiefly of rounded nodules of porphyritic trap, varying in size from
      a pe` to a man's head, runs along the southern part of the parish,
      above the farm of St Magdalenes.  At various places, thin lamine,
      consisting of fine-grained materials, of a siliceous nature, may be
      observed between the larger boulders of which this rugged rock
      is compordd; and in such cases, it is worthy of remark, that both
      the degree and direction. of the dip coincide exactly with those
      which belong to the sandstone of the district.  Thus on the
      north side of St Magdelene's Hill the dip was found to be 14/d 30/


