
     of Kirkmichael.

   Horses, Cattle and Sheep.-For many years past, few hor-
ses have been bred in this neighbourhood, the waste being
chiefly supplied from Ireland, though of late, owing to their
increased price, some of the farmers have begun to rear them,
and are well paid for their trouble, as home-bred horses are
more profitable, and more to be depended upon, than foreign-
ers.  Breeding cattle makes part of the business of almost eve-
ry farmer: they are chiefly of the Galloway kind, short-legged
long and deep in the body, broad above, without horns, har-
dy, handsome, easily fed, and tell well at the end of the ba-
lance.  They are high priced to their size, but swell incredi-
bly when promoted to better pastures.  The common breed of
cows are not remarkable for the quantity of milk they give,
nor is the dairy, as an article of export, much attend-
ed to in this part of the country, though good butter for
private use is made here.  The manufacture of cheese is not
understood.  At and above 4 years old, the bullocks and cut
queys are driven to the English market, and fetch great prices.
Considerable numbers of Highland and Scotch cows are fatted

     VOL. VI. O

<FOOTNOTE>

this precaution, it would be difficult to preserve it at all in bad seasons.  It does
best with short grassy corn, keeps the grain sound, and the fodder sweet, and
prevents heating in the stack.
   There is a method of preserving beans, practised here for several years, al-
ways with success.  When cut, they are laid in regular handfulls, all one way,
and suffered to he 8 or 10 days upon the ground; then two persons going to-
gether, each lists a handful, and sets it down on the root end, the one op-
posite to the other, so as to be separated at bottom, and to support each other
at top.  The same operation is repeated on the open sides, till it becomes a
round hulk, and more is added all round, till it stands firm, always taking
care to keep the heap open below, to give it stability, and to allow the air to
pass.  It is wonderful how the hulks will resist very severe blasts; and the pre-
sent incumbent, in the year 1787, had two acres of beans, which stood 44
days in the rain, without damage.  When ready for stacking, they are bound
with thumb ropes, and put on the carts.


