
44                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

ment of the Protector, in consequence of the active aid lent by Sir
John Charteris to Montrose towards the restoration of King Charles.
4 "The famous Paterson, too, who planned the Darien scheme,
and the Bank of England, &c. was born at Skipmire, in the old pa-
rish of Trailflat, about the year 1660. The same house gave birth
to his grand-nephew, Dr James Mounsey, first physician for many
years to the Empress of Russia." 5. General Fead, also, was born
at Fulton, in this parish, about the year 1720. He enlisted a pri-
vate in the British artillery, and rose from the ranks to be a gene-
ral, and a very distinguished officer.
	Land-owners.-- The chief land-owners in the parish are the Mar-
quis of Queensberry, Douglas of Craigs, Charteris of Amisfield,
and Dalzell of Glenae.
	Parochial Register.--The only repster in the parish regularly
kept for any length of time is that of births; the earliest entry in
which is on April 4, 1762.
	Antiquities.--There are distinct traces of a camp of considerable
size upon the top of Barshell hill, which, from its round form, is
supposed to have been British.  There are also the visible remains
of three smaller forts, one upon the farm of Shielhill, another at
Highauchnane, and the third at Amisfield. The last, approaching
to a square, may possibly have been a Roman station, where a cohort
or two may occasionally have been placed. What renders this more
probable is, that the old Roman road from Burnswark by Trailflat
passed close by. At Amisfield, also, there is an old baronial tower,
still perfectly entire, said to be the most perfect of the kind now
existing in the kingdom.
	The old place of Tinwald, situated in what was formely a part
of Lochar Moss, and the seat of a branch of the Maxwell family,
seems to have been well fitted for a place of defence. Till within
a few years, part of the old building remained. It is now entirely
demolished, and the materials have been removed.
	Modern Building.--There are three mansion-houses in the
parish,--that of Glenae, belonging to Major Dalzell,--that of
Tinwald, belonging to the Marquis of Queenburry; and Amis-
field, the seat of the old family of Charteris. "The sirname
Charteris" (says Douglas in his Baronage of Scotland,) "is
of great antiquity in Scotland. It is the opinion of some antiqua-
ries that it is of French extraction,--that William, a son of
the Earl of Charteries in France, came to England with William


