
342                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

7000 Sepoys and upwards of 600 Europeans.  Sir Hector Munro
having taken command of the army, sat down before the place on
the 21st of October, and before the middle of next month, the
garrison was obliged to capitulate.,
   After describing minutely the taking of Negapatnam, the officer
from whom we have already quoted gives the following testimony
to his merit, alluding at the same time to his former services at
Pondicherry. "Thus were two of the most formidable foreign
garrisons upon the coast of Coromandel razed to the ground, un-
der the conduct and command of Major-General Sir Hector Munro;
and what to his bonour as a man, will equal his reputation as a
general, was his humane and magnanimous carriage toxvards those
whom the fortune of war bad placed within his power.  The be-
sieged and captive inhabitants of either place, instead of having
cause to accuse him with the wanton commission of cruelties and
injustice--an impeachment but too common in this licentious
country, have echoed throughout the whole tract of Asia, the most
grateful paneygries upon his benevolence, humanity, generosity,
and good faith."
   Land-owners.-The proprietors of tbe parish are, H. A. J.
Munro of Novar, Major-General Munro of Teaninich, and Finlay
Munro of Lealty.  Of these the first mentioned possesses in extent
more than two-thirds of the parish ; but a great part of the pro-
perty being either moorland or plantation, is chiefly valuable as
affording pasturage for sheep and for its game.  In order to con-
trast the present state of the parish as regards the extent and di-
vision of property, with that which existed at a period considerably
earlier, it may here be stated, that in the year 1726 there were
twelve proprietors of land in the parish.  These were Munro of
Novar; M'Kenzie of Assynt; Munro of Fyrish; M'Intosh of
Contlich; M'Leod of Culcragie; Mackilligen of Balachragan;
Munro of Lealty; Munro of Caul; Simson of the Quarter of Al-
ness; Munro of Ceanuachdrach; and Fraser of Cromraon.
   Antiquities.--Under the head Antiquities, there is not much
that is interesting connected with this parish.  At a place called
Multivie, two cairns were discovered some years ago, buried to a
considerable depth in the earth.  They appear to have been sim-
ply square enclosures, or boxes, constructed by placing together
immense flat stones.  On being opened, they were found to con-
tain human-bones, which are said to have been of a very large
size.  These extraordinary repositories of the dead, however,


