
			MARYCULTER.                   191

There abound common small "cairns" indicative of battle-
fields, in which are found, teeth and other human remains.
	Parochial Registers.--Registers are regularly kept. Of those
that can be now found, none are of ancient date. The oldest re-
gister of discipline begins May 1719, and the oldest of births and
baptisms 1696.
	Land-owers.--The land is held by seven heritors; more than
the half by Mr Gordon of Fyvie and Maryculter. The other chief
land-owners are Mr. Boswell of Balmuto and Kingcausie; Mr Du-
guid of Auchlunies; Mr Garioch of Heathcote; and the proprie-
tors of Blairs. The estate of Blairs formerly belonged to Mr
Menzies of Pitfoddels, but, not many years ago, was gifted by him
to the church of Rome.
	Mansion-Houses.--The gentlemen's seats are tbose of Mary-
culter, Kingcausie, Heatcote, and Auchlunies. That of Mary-
culter is situated on a bank overhanging the Dee, and is embo-
somed in wood; the beauty of the situation is great, but, as there
is no lawn, the scene is not of great extent. Kingcausie stands at
the top of a fine lawn, at the bottom of which flows the Dee.
There is much old timber all round the house and about the
grounds; and having also a fine rising bank of wood, it has thus a
particularly English appearance. The American shrubs seem well
adapted to the soil, and are to be found in great profusion and
splendour throughout the pleasure-grounds and even woods--par-
ticularly the common and small rhododendrons and kalmias, &c.
A romantic glen, called the Corby-pot, forming part of the bound-
ary between the properties of Maryculter and Kingcausie, is noted
for its flora. Heathcote is a handsome new house in the villa
style, surrounded with young wood. Auchlunies is an old house,
but also well sheltered with wood, and has grounds prettily laid
out.

<TABLE>
			III.--POPULATION.
	      The population in 1811 amounted to 700
				1821,            860
				1831,            960
Ntmber of families in the parish                             186
		   chiefly employed in agriculture,	     146
			 trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  19
Illegitimates children in the course of the last three years,  6
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--
	   Number of acres imperial cultivated, about    8300
		  waste, about                           4200
		  capable of cultivation, perhaps about   100
		  in undivided common,                      9
		  under plantation,                       850


