
60	             RENFREWSHIRE.

hoped that more attention will be bestowed on them in future, as
it may be the means of preventing serious accidents, several of
which have taken place.
   Ecelesiastical State.-The parish church stands in the village,
and is not conveniently situated for the population. To the west
and south, many are four miles distant,-so that it is almost impos-
sible, during a great part of the year, for the old and infirm to at-
tend public worship, which is a subject of regret. A new parish
church was built about two years ago, and is in excellent repair.
It can accommodate about 1000 persons, and is too large for the
present population.
    The manse was built more than a century ago, and has under-
gone some extensive alterations and repairs. Upwards of forty
years ago, two wings were added to it, and a handsome porch,-
which render the house as convenient as any modern manse in the
neighbourhood. The glebe lands, including the garden and the
site of the manse, consist of about 8 acres. The soil in many
places is very shallow, and cannot be valued at more than L. 13.
   The stipend is 16 chalders, half meal half barley, convertible at
the highest fiar prices of the county,-besides L. 8, 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements.
   There are two meeting-houses in the parish: one belongs to a
few Baptists, and the other to the sect denominated the Reform-
ed Presbytery. No emolument is attached to the former; and the
latter is supported from collections and seat rents. These meeting-
houses are attended by few who belong to the parish. The Bap-
tists may number about 10 individuals, and the Reformed Pres-
bytery about 20 members; but neither of these bodies is on the
increase. The great body of the people attend the Established
church. There are 400 communicants on an average, who receive
the sacrament,-which, considering the population, is a large num-
ber.  The young seem all to express a desire to join the church at
a certain age.
   Education.-There are six schools in the parish, and the paro-
chial school is in the village. The teacher has the maximum salary,
a dwelling-house and garden. The branches of education taught
are, reading, writing, and arithmetic, more being seldom required.
The emoluments of the private teachers arise from school-fees,-
a school-room and dwelling-house being provided by the people.
There are no perions in the parish who cannot read, and the young


