
                   ST ANDREWS.                             177

fish. The catalogue might be greatly extended by an enurnera-
tion of many other less important kinds.
Botany.-We are not aware that any very rare plants occur
here. But, as a kind of index of the nature of the soil, we may
mention the following-yellow water-flag, marsh marigold, buck-
bean, cotton-grass, mint, butterwort, and yellow-rattle ; corn-
marigold, wild-mustard, docks, sorrel, and thistles; devils-bit,
dog's-tail grass, rush, dwarf-willow, foxglove, plantain, common
primrose, sundew, heath, parnassia, mushrooms, puff-balls; and a
variety of fuci on the sea shore, which are burned for kelp. There
is no wood in the parish, vet the peat mosses bear presumptive
evidence of its baViDg grown here or not far distant from this place,
at some former period. Some years ago, the removal of the sand on
the sea shore, in the immediate vicinity of the bog in which were
found hazel nuts,discovered several branches of birch trees. This was
occasioned by a violent gale of north-east wind; and wherever the
sand was removed, the stratum below was peat moss to the depth
of several feet. In the eighth appendix to Dr Barry's history, we
have an extract from a manuscript by Matthew Mackaile, preserv-
ed in the Advocates' Library, Edinburgh, where it is said that, 14 at
the east, end of the main, at head of Deersound, at Campstown,
there is a little wood (almost two pair of beets in length, find one
broad, and as tall as a man,) of the ordinary Salix angustifolia or
viminia." All remembrance of this has long since vanished.
A spirited attempt was, a few years ago, made by Mr Baikie of
Tankerness, to introduce the useful and ornamental article of
wood. He planted with plane-tree, fir, ash, willow, &c. several
acres of ground along the north side of the lake; but no hope is
entertained of the success of the attempt,-indeed, the trees have
almost all entirely disappeared. Perhaps the sea breeze, combin-
ed with some ungeniality in the rough and uncultivated soil in
which they were planted, rather than any peculiar rigour of the
climate, has proved adverse to their growth : for various kinds of
fruit trees, and even tender shrubs will thrive Well in a good soil$
and under the protection of a sufficient wall. About four years
ago, the same gentleman planted two or three acres of good
ground near his house with the same kinds of wood, and the young
trees seem healthy, and are progressing in stature.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTOTLY.
This parish was I formerly united quoad sacra with. Deerhesso-,
a circumstance which has led to various inaccuracies inL occasional
ORKNEY.                             M


