
368                           FORFARSHIRE.

2s. 6d.; for a boll of oats is. 6d.;--a reduction vhhch the new and
certainly equitable plan lately introduced into our corn market, of
buying by weight instead of measure, must tend still further to in-
crease. A considerable extent of potatoes is planted, as they
form a large roportion of the food of the labouring classes: pota-
toes are also given to cows and horses, and a part is consumed by
the pigs and the poultry. The culture of potatoes is well understood,
and great pains are taken in pulverizing the clods, and in loosen-
in the soil around the plants when springing, with a three prong-
ed instrument, called a clatt. The kinds commonly planted are
the white and red kidney, a large round red kind, and the small
American for the table. The quality is generally excellent.
Turnips are raised in considerable quantity. The white top,
the red-top, and the globe, are the most common kinds. The
Aberdeenshire yellow is also in general use, and is much esteemed.
	As the second crop of clover is now rarely so good as it was
after the first application of lime, or marl a proportion of tares or
vetches is sown to supply its place, in the autumn. The farmers
usually supply themselves with rye-grass seeds. From 1 to 2
bushels of it, with from 4 to 6 pounds red, and from 2 to 4 pounds
white clover, are sown into the acre. Flax was formerly raised
here in great quantities, as the soil in lany places is thought to
be well adapted to it; but as this article can be procured by im-
portation, at a cheaper rate, the sowing of it is now quite given up.
	The rents of the farms occupied under the old leases are paid
partly in grain, and partly in money; but the usual duration of the
leases now granted is nineteen years, for a money rent only. And
the, rents under the modern leases are very moderate, and favour-
able to improvement; yet they who occupy under the old leases,
have in general carried their improvements farther than they either
would or could have done, had they been less favourably situated.
	Farm Buildings.--From the abundance of stones and slates in
the parish, the farm buildings are, in most instances, substantially
built and covered with slates; and not less than 1400 acres are
inclosed and subdivided with stone fences, besides various other
inclosures with whin hedge and ditch.
	Previous to 1770, various farms in the parish were, from the
nature of the soil, "thought to be better adapted for pasture than
for grain, and were occupied by farmers in the neighbouring pa-
rishes, as grazing farms (called out-rooms) for their cattle in the
summer; but ever since that time, the proprietors have obliged the
                                 3


