

                        PARISH OF BOWDEN.

        PRESBYTERY OF SELKIRK, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                THE REV. THOMAS JOLLIE, MINISTER.

                I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.--THE first mention of this parish occurs in the foun-
dation charter of Selkirk, before the year 1124, when it was grant-
ed to the monks by David I., under the name of Bothenden. In
charters granted in the years 1159 and 1232, the former by Mal-
colm IV, and the latter by Walter, Bishop of Glasgow, and both
confirming David's grant, we find the parish named Botheldene and
Boulden. It is plausibly conjectured that the first of these names
was derived from a St Bothen or Bodwin, and that it came in time
to be abbreviated to Boulden, which was again corrupted to Bow-
den.
        Extent and Boundaries.--The greatest length of the parish is
6 miles, and breath 4 1/2 miles. At an average it may be about
four by three miles in extent, and contains twelve square miles.
It is bounded on the north by Melrose parish; on the east,
mostly by St Boswells, partly also by Ancrum; on the south, by
Lilliesleaf; on the west by Selkirk; and on the north-west by
Galashiels.
        Topographical Appearances.--It is of an irregular oblong figure.
One of the Eildon Hills and one-half of another are in this parish.
From one broad and elevated base their three conical tops arise,
which, from their situation in a flat country, more than from their
height, are seen at a great distance. Their elevation above the
level of the sea, as stated by the late Sir John Leslie, is 1364 feet;
while that of the parish is, at all average, 450 feet. The gene-
ral surface of the parish may be well described as consisting of
a series of parallel ridges, lying from west to east, and from the
parallel elevations from which the Eildon Hills arise, lessening
in height towards the south,--with intermediate valleys, more or
less wide, each having its own rill, which runs eastward to the
Tweed, about two miles distant from the middle of the parish.


