
			HUTTON.					155

   The cottage of a Berwickshire ploughman or labourer may vie
in cleanliness with that of any of the same class either in England
or Scotland.  Seldom is there any of that squalor to be observed,
which is so offensive in other districts of Scotland.  The same
regard to cleanliness and comfort is displayed in the article of
dress.  Where these habits prevail, it will be generally found,
that they are the accompaniments of sobriety, industry, morality
and religion, and that opposite habits are commonly associated
with irreligion and profligacy.
   That the people enjoy in a reasonable degree the comforts and
advantages of society cannot be doubted.  They themselves feel
that they do so, and are thankful for these advantages.  Employ-
ed entirely in agricultural labours, they are not overworked, but
have sufficient leisure to attend to their families, and to cultivate the
moral, religious, and domestic affections.  Not being huddled to-
gether in dense masses, they are not exposed to those temptations
with which the manufacturing population of large and crowded
towns is beset, but maintain that independence of mind, simplicity
of character, sobriety of thought, and decency of conduct, which
are generally associated with rural life.  Many of them bring up
large families upon slender means, and it rarely happens that the
education of their children is neglected.  Few of them intermeddle
with the irritating subject of politics, or with the controversial dis-
putations of theology.  Knowing that their superiors are interested
in their welfare, they pay them that respect to which they are en-
titled.  The higher classes, in their turn, are charitable and atten-
tive to the, poor; and thus a bond of union is formed betwixt them,
which is productive of the best effects.
  The peasantry are intelligent and acute, and few of them are
without a small collection of books, and of these, the majority gene-
rally consists of those old manuals of divinity, which have by pre-
scriptive right long been the favourites of the Scottish peasantry.
The frequent perusal of these books, though homely in their garb,
and perhaps not very polished in style, has a tendency to keep
alive their reasoning faculties, as well as to foster and confirm their
religious principles.  With them also a taste for reading is gain-
ing ground; and, with their moral habits, and sound modes of
thinking, it is to be hoped that the influence produced may prove
salutary.-
  In all the practical processes of agricultural and rural economy,
they are in general well informed, and in the management of the
plough, or the use of the spade, a Berwickshire hind or labourer


