
                          LISMORE AND APPIN.                    251

   On the whole, the condition of the quarriers is, in most respects,
superior to that of the people in the same station of life in the sur-
rounding country.  They are sensibld of the advantages which they
enjoy, and are an orderly and generally a well-behaved body of
men in every respect."

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town to the parish is
Oban, which is ten miles by land from Appin, and seven miles by
sea from Lismore.  Here there is a ready market, to a consider-
able extent, for every kind of produce, and here also can every
kind of supplies be obtained; but since steam navigation has been
established on the western coast, the principal trade is with Glas-
gow and the south.
   Villages.-The villages in the parish are Clachan and Port-
ramsay in Lismore; Port-Appin, Tayribbi, and Portnacroish in
Appin, on the slate quarry of Laroch in Glencoe.  In each of
these three small villages there is a public-house, a shop, and a
smithy, except Portramsay, which is rather a fishing village; and
there are shoemakers, carpenters, and weavers in or in the imme-
diate neighbourhood of each.  The population of the largest of
these villages does not amount to 100, with the exception of La-
roch, which contains about 500, and is a growing place, owing to
its trade in slates.
   Means of Communication, &.c-There is a great improvement
in the post-office since the old Statistical Account was written.
It was about that time that the post-office was first establhshed in
Appin, and the mail came only three times a week from Inverary;
but now there is a daily post, contributing greatly to the improve-
ment of the parish ; and there is a penny-post at Lismore, to
which there is a runner twice a week from Appin.  There is also
a penny-post in Kingerloch, to which there is a runner twice a
week from Strontian.  So easy and expeditious is now the com-
munication with the south, that the newspaper that is published in
Glasgow in the morning is in Appin that night, and may be, and
often is, in Lismore next morning.  Another easy mode of commu-
nication is by the steamers, which pass twice a week through the pa-
rish during summer, and once a week during winter, and to Glas-
gow, Inverness, Mull, and Skye.  By these steamers passengers
and goods are conveyed speedily, and at a cheap rate, to and from
every part of the country.  There are no tolls in this parish.  The
roads are kept in excellent order, particularly in Appin, by con-


