
     170             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

     collecting, spade-trenching, &c. (opening with the mattock the
     subsoil, but leaving it in situ, as I have practised for several years),
     thus at once. permanently raising their value, benefitting the te-
     nants, and inuring them to regular and useful land labour.  For
     instance, at a small expense each cottar could enclose such an ex-
     tent of ground as might raise so much rye-grass and turnips, from
     seed of his own growth, as would enable him to keep annually
     an additional cow, and do ample justice to all the rest of his live-
     stock; and if this simple expedient alone were universal, the ren-
     tal of the whole country would soon be greatly increased.  It may
     be affirmed, that by this and other simple and economical improve-
     ments, on which our limits will not here allow us to enlarge, and
     by more persevering industry, the lands already under cultivation
     might be rendered much more productive, without conflicting with
     the general habits and routine of the people ; and such graftings
     on the old system are confessedly to be preferred to uprooting and
     expensive innovations, which too often are found to rest on nothing
     but the love of novelty and generalization.
        Fisheries.-Cod, ling, tusk, saltbe, and herring are the spe-
     cies of fish caught to bib cured for sale.  Ling and tusk have been
     long the staple articles of Shetland export.   The home of the lat-
     ter may, in Great Britain,  be said to be confined to Shetland, and
     it is a peculiarly rich and highly-flavoured fish.   Both these are
     fished with long lines in  boats of I8 or 19 feet of keel, with
     a crew of six men.  The distance of the fishing ground from
     the land varies from ten to forty miles.   The lines are laid
     at midnight, the common bait is the young coal-fisb, and the
     season is from the end of May to the middle of August.  But
     tbe fishing should be continued two months later, and then
     during the day alone.  Cod and ling then draw nearer the shore,
     and are more numerous and diffused.  The favourite bait, herring,
     is then abundant, and danger is diminished.  This autumn fishing
     will probably be more valued and prosecuted than it yet is.  The
     fish are split, salted in tubs, and dried on the pebbly beaches,
     which are numerous, and exceedingly well adapted to the purpose
     from their smoothness, dryness, and admitting of a constant cur.-
     rent of cool air below them.  The art of fish-curing in this manner
     is well understood, and the essential principle of pining or pressure
     is in general duly and even scientifically applied.  Since the lands,
     however, have been under the pseudo-free system, and deprived
     of the beneficial superintendence of the lairds the, curing of


