
			PARISH OF KILTARLITY.

		PRESBYTERY OF INVERNESS, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                 THE REV. C. FRASER, MINISTER. *


		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   WHAT now forms the parish of Kiltarlity consisted formerly of
two parishes, Convinth and Kiltarlity. The date of their union
is not known.
   Name.-It is supposed that the name Kiltarlity is derived from
Gaelic words signifying the place of sepulture of Tarrail. But of
the individual named Tarrail, nothing is known. It may be noticed,
however, that there is a stone, known, for time immemorial, by the
appellation of Clach Tarrail (Tarrail's stone), still pointed out as
that which covers his grave. This stoner lies about half-a-mile
south-west from the old churchyard of Kiltarlity. Another account
of the origin of the name is, that the parsonage of Kiltarlity be-
ing dedicated to St Thalargus, the burial-ground surrounding the
church was called Cille Thalargus, and, hence, by corruption, the
name Kiltarlity. The name Convinth is supposed to be derived from
two Gaelic words, Conna Bheathach (a ravenous animal); and tra-
dition says that this district obtained the name in consequence of
a wild boar having long infested and committed great havoc
therein.
   Extent.-This is considered among the largest parishes in the
Highlands. From the northeast boundary to the north-weSt ex-
tremity, the distance is calculated at about 45 miles. The Par-
liamentary road which intersects the parish from east to west is up-
wards of 40 miles; the breadth of the parish is small in propor-
tion to its great length, being, upon an average, only about six
miles.
   Boundaries.-Kiltarlity is bounded by the united parishes of Ur-
quhart and Glenmorriston on the south and south-west; by Glenshiel
on the west; by Kintail on the north-west; by Kilmorack on the
north; Kirkhill on the east; and by the parish of Inverness on the
south-east. The whole northern part is bounded by Kilmorack,

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr John Fraser, Kiltarlity manse.


