
336			LANARKSHIRE.

wrought. In addition to the above, irregular beds and masses of
quarry-stone or felspar rock are found.
	The principal lead veins run south-east and north-west, with a
dip or hade to the east of one foot in three. Several of them have
afforded large quantities of ore, especially the High Work, Meadow-
head, Brow, and Susannah veins, the last yielding a great part of
the produce for many years. It is now nearly abandoned, from the
low price of lead holding out little encouragement to sink deeper
than at present,--the present depth being about 140 fathoms from
the surface. The common and compact galena or lead glance are
the principal ores, and furnish all the lead used in the arts; be-
sides these, they contain small quantities of green, black, and yel-
low lead ores; white and black carbonates; sulphate and sulpho-
tricarbonates of lead; phosphate and earthy lead ores; copper and
iron pyrites, malachite, azure copper ore, gray manganese, blende,
and calamine. The vein stones are quartz, calcareous spar, brown
spar, sparry ironstone, heavy spar, &c.
	The ore is prepared for reduction by bruising or pounding, and
then subjecting it to a stream of water,--by which means the im-
purities are carried off, and the pure ore is collected. It is then
put into a small blast furnace with peat or turf, coal, and a small
portion of lime, by which process the volatile ingredients are
carried away, the ore becomes oxidized, then decomposed, and
the oxygen combining with the carbon flies off in the form of car-
bonic gas, while the lead in its metallic state sinks to the bottom
of the furnace. It is then drawn off into a reservoir, and put into
moulds with an iron ladle or spoon. At present the mines yield
annually about 700 tons of lead.
	A manufactory of small shot was established about eighteen
months ago, and is likely to succeed. All the different kinds are
made, and of the best quality. The largest varieties are consider-
ed superior to any produced by the English manufactories.
	Silver is contained in the lead, but in too small quantity to re-
pay its extraction.*
	Gold is found in all our neighbouring streams, disseminated in
minute particles through the till or clay more immediately cover-
ing the rocks, and also occasionally interspersed in quartz. The
search for this precious metal was formerly conducted on a large
scale, and afforded a remuneration to the adventurer. During

<FOOTNOTE>Vide, for further particulars of the mineralogy of the district, Professor Jame-
son's Mineralogy of the County of Dumfries, published by Blackwood in 1805.


