
40                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

proportion within two. They are exemplary in their attendance
on divine ordinances; and it may be mentioned as an evidence,
it is to be hoped, of their sense of the importance of the duty, that
out of a population of about 1050, between 416 and 432 persons,
have for several years past been annual partakers of the sacrament
of the Lord's Supper.
   Almost the whole population belong to the Established church.
The very few families which at any time dissent from it are gene-
rally of the class of hinds, or farm-servants, and these, frequently
removing from one parish to another, their numbers are constant-
ly varying. The number of Dissenting families is 16 or 17.
   The manse was built about forty years ago. The stipend
consists of eighteen chalders of victual, ten bolls being of wheat,
and the remainder of barley and oats, in equal proportions. The
glebe is upwards of six acres, which, including L.12, in lieu of
the old glebe of Tynninghame, may be worth L.30 a-year.
   Education.-There are two parochial schools conveniently situ-
ated, and at present well taught, each schoolmaster enjoying the
maximum salary of L. 84, 4s. 4 1/2d. Their dwelling-houses are such
as the law requires, but better accommodation seems desirable for
teachers who have been students in a university, who hold so respect-
able a station, and are intrusted with so important a charge. Read-
ing, arithmetic, and writing, are the branches commonly taught, few,
comparatively, desiring instruction in the Greek, Latin, or French
languages. The charge for teaching Latin is L.2 per annum,
for writing and arithmetic, L.1, and for English alone 10s.-the
average number of scholars in both schools being about l2O. Each
of the parochial schoolmasters may receive annually about L.35
of school-fees. The people are in general alive to the benefit of
education, and care is taken that the children of the poorest shall
not be in this respect neglected.
   Poor.-The average number on the roll for the last seven years
is 20. The funds from which they receive aid are the inte-
rest of between L.500 and L.600, and the weekly collections at
the church doors. We have been hitherto able, from private li-
berality, to avoid an assessment.
   A scheme (which seems, to have been afterwards abandoned)
was proposed by the Justices of Peace of this county, in the year
1745, for erecting a public poor-house; but it appears from the
session book of Tynninghame, which was then a separate parish,
that the session refused to accede to the proposal, as they had poor-


