
     of Forbes and Kearn.

   Climate and Diseases.-The air is dry, clear, and healthful;
and as the country in general is mountainous, it has a fine
circulation at all seasons, though often very sharp and cold.
The diseases incident to the people of this district, and of the
country in general, are various: lingering fevers, of the nerv-
ous kind, few inflammatory; gout, rheumatism, jaundice,
scrophula, scurvy, gravel and stone, small-pox, measles, hoop-
ing cough, etc.  Instances of all these are frequently to be
met with among the people.  Some children are lost by the
small-pox, measles and hooping cough.  But as the people,
in a great measure, have got over their prejudices against ino-
culation, very few now die in the small-pox.  But of all the
diseases that prevail in this country, the scurvy is the most
epidemical, and may justly be called the bane and scourge of
human nature.  This distemper may primarily be contracted
from various causes; idle indolent habits, unwholesome food,
impure air, the want of attention to cleanliness, a sedentary
life, &c. may occasion it.  Sedentary employments are evi-
dently nourishers of this, as well as of all other putrid dis-
orders; and when any putrid disorder gets hold of the human
constitution, it is not easily expelled, and of consequence be-
comes hereditary, and is handed down to posterity with all
its woeful increasing force.  This in reality is but too much
the case with the scurvy among the people of this country.
When this distemper is cutaneous, its effects are often dread-
ful; but 9 out of 10 have it latent in the body, and then its
effects are baneful indeed!  It falls upon the softer and warmer
parts of the body, mixes itself intimately with the circulation
of the blood, corrupts it, weakens and enfeebles all parts of
the frame, and corrodes the lungs, stomach and intestines;
hence foetid breath, perspiration and stool; costive habits, ob-
structions of the menses; various pains throughout the body;
coughs and difficulty of breathing; sore eyes and throats;

     VOL. XI. B b


