
     of Kilmalie.

more than 6 fleeces generally go to each stone, which is equal
to about 10,000 stones.

<TABLE>

Stones. lbs.                                                 L.    s.    D.
 6666 14, at 7 s. 6 d. per  stone, come to                  2499   19   4 1/2
 3333 10, at 5 s. 6 d. per stone, come to                    916   13   9 1/2
 --------                                                   -----------------
 10000 0 Total annual produce of the wool of this parish,   3416   13   2
                                                            ----------------- 

</TABLE>

   Population.-The introduction of sheep, it is obvious, has
a tendency to diminish the number of inhabitants in particu-
lar districts*.  In this parish, however, from the operation
of peculiar circumstances, the population has increased consi-
derably, and is still on the increase.  It is not easy, now, to
determine the exact proportion of people that remain, com-
pared with those who have been obliged to remove.  From a
medium statement of several farms, in different situations,
they appear to have been nearly three times as populous, as
they are at present.  But one fourth of the parish is still un-
der black cattle, and contains as great a number of people as

     3 H 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is an absolute necessity of preserving the grass, during summer and
harvest upon the law grounds, for the use of the sheep in winter and spring:-
for, otherwise, they run a risk of perishing.  This could not be done, were
the same number of people, as formerly, to live there, and to cultivate lands for
their own subsistence.  Besides, the number of cows and horses, they would require,
would entirely consume the grass.  Proprietors, it is said, have made repeated
trials of letting their lands, among the former tenants, jointly, provided they
would stock them with sheep, and agree among themselves, with regard to their
respective shares.  But every instance of this kind, has proved unsuccessful in
the end.  And, indeed, it is almost impossible, that a multitude of people can
agree in managing a joint stock of sheep, and bringing the produce to market.
Schemes of this kind, consequently, how plausible soever they may seem in theo-
ry, will ever fail of success in practice; and experience has demonstrated the ab-
surdity of such an attempt.  The fact is, that sheep farms cannot be let with
prudence, or advantage, to a number of tenants; and the introduction of
sheep must, of course, diminish the number of tenants in particular districts.


