
     Statistical account

   Etymology, Language, and Antiquities.  The Damnii of
Ptolomy among other counties, most certainly possessed all
Lanarkshire.  Ptolomy however makes no mention of the
word Lanark, or any of a similar sound.  Baxter, with
others, have deemed Lanark to be the Ugrulentum of the
anonymous geographer of Ravenna, and not without some
degree of probability.  Baxter's derivation however of Ug-
rulentum from the Welsh uger lent, which as he says, sig-
nifies ripa humidi, vel aqua, is totally inapplicable to the
situation of Lanark, it being situated on a dry and elevat-
ed situation, 292 feet 1 inch above the level of the
Clyde.  He is equally unhappy in his etymology of Lan-
ark, which he derives from Lan orig, i. e. ripa fluminis,
this town not being situated within view of the river, nor
upon its immediate bank, but about half a mile from
it.*
   It is true we have a late author, (Mr Pinkerton) who
defends the fabulous kingdom of the Stratclyde Bri-
tons of Lanarkshire, and the Welsh derivation of
Lanark; but he, in aid of his hypothesis is obliged to
resort to assertions totally void of foundation.  Thus he

<FOOTNOTE>

*Fones in his origin of language and nations, (a whimsical book,) says
that Lanark, "is the same as the Welsh Lanerch, an upper or higher yard or
"inclosure", which is hardly so improbable as the other.  Indeed in the
Welsh language we find many etymons such as Llanerch, a green or a bare
place in a wood; and Lanberch, a forest, as Lluyd tells us.  Lanerch is ac-
tually the name of a town on the Clwyd in Wales: and Lan in Welsh as in
Gaelic, signifies a church, churchyard, or inclosure.  But the same Lluyd
in his Welsh preface to the Archealogia tells us, and proves it pretty clear-
ly, that a very great many of the names of places in Wales itself, can only
be derived from the Gaelic, the Gael being the original inhabitants of Great
Britain as well as of continental Gaul, which is farther proved by the tracts
published in 1737, by Mr Malcolme, minister of Duddingston, and of late
by the two Messrs.  M'Phersons, so that the otymology of Lanark falls rather
to be sought for in the Gaelic than Welsh.


