
30                   CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

means of a railway, and the progressive improvements in this mode
of conveyance have been passed through here.
   1st, The first railroad here was laid in the year 1766. This
was composed of Scotch fir-rails of a scantling 4 inches by 5 inches,
fixed by wooden pins to cross pieces of wood near to each other,
termed sleepers.
   2d, The above was improved upon and strengthened by laying
a top rail above the other, of the same kind of wood; but the fir-
wood chaffed and wore so fast with the iron-wbeels, that this bad
to be improved.
   3d, The next improvement was to make the top rail beech-wood.
This became smooth and glossy, and continued to be the improved
railway until the introduction of cast-iron.
  4th, The next attempt at improvement was the adopting of cast-
iron, by plating the wooden rails with cast-iron in pieces of four
feet long, of an inch and a quarter square; each piece of rail hav-
ing three projecting ears with holes, through which a pin was
driven to fix the iron-rail in its place. This plan proved quite
abortive, for the instant the wood gave way or yielded, the cast-
iron was broken, and it was found so useless and so expensive that
it was thrown aside altogether. The engineers then never once
contemplated the substitution of cast-iron rails of a proper form,
in lieu of the wooden-rails.
   5th, The next improvement adopted was the double wooden
rails before-mentioned, being formed of best Memel or Prus-
sian fir, plated with Swedish malleable iron, 13/4 inches broad and
3/4 of an inch thick. This railroad kept long in a good state, but
when the wooden rails began to fail, the repairs were never ending
and expensive.
   6th, The preceding improved road was superseded, about thirty
years ago, by an edge railroad composed of cast-iron rails and
sleepers of the same, which plan bad become common in England,
and had been adopted at several collieries in Scotland. This was
a decided improvement upon all the former plans in every point of
view.
   7th, The cast-iron railway being worn out after thirty years ser-
vice, the next and last improvement made in this railway was the
stiltutinz edge failsi of malleable iron, known by the name of
Bedlington patent rail. These are laid on stone blocks and fiked
thereto by cast-iron chains, as is the universal practice in every
district in. Great Britain.


