
                        DUTHIL.--ROTHIEMURCHUS.                     137

	and different kinds of hard-wood; while in the back-ground, and
	at the base of the lofty Cairngorum range, extends the large forest of
        pine, which renders this property so valuable.  Near the west end
        of the parish is the Ord-b...n, (white hill), a hill standing solitary
        in advance of the great Grampian chain, beautifully wooded to
        near the summit, and presenting the rather uncommon appearance
        in the Highlands, of a mountain decorated with green verdure.
        There are excellent lime quarries.  Along the base of this hill to
        the south, stretches Loch-an-Eilean, (lake of the island), more
        than a mile in length, and varying from half-a-mile to a quarter of
        mile in breadth.  Upon its banks grow the weeping-birch and
        some fine specimens of the tall sombre pine, remains of the old
        forest.  This lake contains an island where are the ruins of a
        castle, of which tradition speaks as one of the strongholds of the Wolf
        of Badenoch, celebrated for his burning of the Elgin Cathedral.
        It is chiefly remarkable in the present day for a very distinct echo,
        whose reverberations among the surrounding mountains have a
        very fine effect.  Southwards, about half-a-mile from Loch-an-
        Eilean, is Loch Gamhuinn, encircled by the tall dark pine, in
        harmony with the wild Alpine scenery around.  Along the margin
        of this lake, runs Rathad-na-meirlich (thieves' road) the common
        pass of the Lochaber reivers in their excursions to Morayland; and
        it is probable that this was the scene of some striking event in their
        history, as the name of the lake (Loch of the Steers) has an affi-
        nity to their desperate and unlawful calling.  Overhanging these
        two lakes on the south, is the branch mountain of Inch Riach,
        which, with the Brae Riach, still further south, and belonging to
        the great chain, forms Glen-Ennich, a good pasturage for sheep.
        In this glen, which is of considerable extent, are several lakes, the
        chief of which is Loch-Ennich, surrounded upon all sides but one,
        by precipices of striking grandeur and majestic height.
           The Brae Riach, above alluded to, is upwards of 4000 feet
        above the level of the sea, of a table shape, with numerous cor-
        ries affording shelter for the red deer and ptarmigan; abounding
        with precipices dangerous to the hunter; and the resort of gem-
        collectors in search of the Cairngorum quartz.  Near the summit
        of this part of the Grampian range, about a mile distant from
        boundary of the parish, is the source of the river Dee in Aberdeen-
        shire, called by the country people the, Wells of Dee These wells
        are about a dozen in number, which unite their streams,and pass,


