
164                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

  Manse,.&c.-The manse of Lochs stands on an eminence, on the
north side of Loch Erisort. I ' t is a commodious house, but very
much exposed to the inclemency of the weather. It was built up-
wards of thirty years ago, and is, with the exception of the farm
house of the Valimas, the only house in the parish of Locbs, which
is built of stone and lime. There are three dwelling-bouses in
the parish built of stone and clay, which are occupied by farmers,
and are comfortable considering their size,-of which only one
is slated, viz. the inn of Lochshell, which is the-only inn in the pa-
rish ; it is a farm house a] so. The other habitations are wretched.
They are built of stones and moss; but mostly of moss. Their
walls, if they can be so called, are generally four feet high,
and from four to five feet thick. They are thatched with barley
stubble. They are all built on declivities. Their tipper ends are
occupied by the families, and their lower ends by their cattle, with-
out any partition or division between them.
  Mills.-The mills in Lewis are probably the greatest curiosity
a stranger can meet with on the island. There is scarcely a
stream along the coast, on any part of the island, on which a
mill is not to be seen. These mills are of very small size,
and of a very simple construction. The water passes through
their middle, where the wbeel,-a solid piece of wood generally,
eighteen inches in diameteri--stands perpendicularly. A bar of
iron runs through the centre of this wheel. This bar of iron or axle
rests on a Piece of steel, which is fixed on a plank, the one end
of which is fixed in the mill wall, the other in the ' end of apiece
of plank, which stands at right angles with the plank on which the
wheel rests. The tipper end of thp axle fits into a cross bar of
iron, which is fitted into the upper millstone, the axle passing
through the centre of the lower millstone, which is rested upon
wooden beams or long stones. There is a purchase upon the end
of the said perpendicular beam or plank, by which the upper mill-
stone can be raised or lowered. There are nine pieces of board,
eight inches broad, and a foot and a-halflOllg, fixed in the wheel,
parallel and at equal distances fro - each other, upon which the
water is brought to bear; which, together with a few sticks for roof,
and some heather for thatch, constitutes a Lewis mill.

               III.-POPULATION.

<TABLE>
	Population in 1801,		1875
	              1811,		1927
                1821,   2669
                1831,   3067


