
510                        FORFARSHIRE.

subjected to the action of fire in a series of shallow pans, by which
means it is calcined and converted into an alkali of no great strength,
but which serves as an economical substitute for potash. The of-
fensive vapours arising from this process are rendered innocuous by
means of a chimney 150 feet high, which scatters to the winds what
would otherwise prove an intolerable nuisance. In these works
the number of persons at present employed is very inconsiderable.
The average number is about 15 men and 25 women,-the wages
of the former being from 10s. to 14s. per week, and of the latter
from 5s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. Besides these there is another bleaching
work in the parish, of which it way be proper to take notice here,
It is named Waukmills, and is situated on the Brothock, three
miles from the harbour of Arbroath. Being intersected by the
railway to Forfar it enjoys all the advantages of a cheap and ex-
peditious means of communication with the town. It gives em-
ployment to about five men and ten women. Here also is a mill
for grinding bones, &c. for manure.
   Next to the bleaching works may be mentioned the plash-mills
for milling brown yarns, and beating-mills for beating or softening
the yarns used for weft. There are altogether three sets of plash
and beating mills,-one of them driven by water power, consist-
ing of a slight fall in the mill-lead, which, descending from nearly
opposite the manse to the dam of Wardmill, belonging to the
community of Arbroath, and thence to the southern extremity of
Inchmill property, there returns its waters to the Brothock. This
mill-race, running through the premises of the bleachers and yarp
millers, affords an excellent supply of water for washing the yarns
and other operations.
   When canvas or linens are about to be shipped either for the
home market or exportation, they are generally callendered, that
is, passed between and around the cylinders of a powerful engine
of cast metal, called a callender, which smooths and gives a gloss
to the cloth, similar to the household mangle, but of course much
more ponderous and effective. By the lever-power attached to this
machine, the cloth passing through it can be stretched in a greater
or less degree as required. In connection with these public cal-
lenders, there is invariably found the hydraulic press, which is em-
ployed to compress into compact bales of different sizes and shapes
the cloth and yarns intended for shipment,-the saving in freight
from being thus tightly pressed being considerable, especially when
the goods are destined for far distant countries. These callenders

                                 3


