
334                              ARGYLESHIRE.
The Selmichre of the Kings differs from all the other monu-
wents in this cemetery, by being built, the rest being all single
stones. In this shrine, as described by Dean Monro in the ear.
lier part of this narrative (and in which be is followed by Bu.
ebanan and Martin) there were three little chapels : in the one
inscribed 11 Tumulus Re .quni Scotia" were deposited the remains
of forty-eight Scottish monarchs, beginning, as Boece says, with
Fergus II. and ending with the famous Macbeth; his suc-
cessor, Malcolm Canmore, having decreed that for the future
Dunfermline should be the place of royal sepulture. Of the
Scottish monarchs interred in Iona, sixteen are said to be of the
race of Alpin. Fergus is supposed to have been the founder of
this mausoleum.
The next was inscribed Tumulus Regum Hiberni-, and con.
,tains four Irish monarchs. According to the Annals of Ulster
in A. iD. 765, Beatus Nial, King of Ireland, who had abdicated his
kingdom, and had been for eight years in Iona, died there'; and
B. Artgall M'Catheld, King of Connaught, who likewise abdi-
cated, died at Iona in 786; and according to Dr Keating iii his
Notitia Hybernix, Cormae M'Aird, one of the kings of Ireland,
was buried here.
The third little chapel was inscribed Tumulus Re qum Norwegi,,
and contained eicyht Norwegian Princes, of whom the annals of
Ulster tell us, that in 980, Amtilabh or Aulay, son of Stirick,
Prince of the Normen of Dublin, after his defeat in the battle of
Tarah, took refuge in Iona, where he died. The Chronicles of
Man. say, - that in 1 187, on the 4th of the ides of November, God-
red, King of, the Isles, departed this life; and the summer fol-
lowing, his body was conveyed to the island of Hy,-and in 1228,
according to the same chronicler Haeo-Uspac, King of the Sodn-
Irian Islands, was killed with a stone in the taking of a castle ig
Btite, and was buried in Iona.
friend of that monarch in his greatest misfortunes. This monument is without any
date, It not being customary ever to add a date even to a charter. till the days of
King Robert the Bruce. In another place lies the grave-stone of the celebrated
Aileen-nan-sop, whose history is given under the Statistical Account of Kilninien
and Kilmore, as head and founder of that branch of the family of Maclean now re-
presented by Mrs Clephane Maclean of Torloisk.  This stone is ornamentd with a
carving and a ship.  A Macquarie of Ulva also appears; a Maclean of Coll; a Mac-
lean of Dowart; and a Maclean of Lochbuy; a Mackenzie of Kintail; and Macleod
of Macleod.  A considerable space of ground is covered with the monumental stones
of the which and principal families in the Highlands.  Each stone lies flat upon the
ground, and is seldom larger that the dimensions of the grave it covers.  It was the
ancient custom, as it still is in some places, to bury the whole family, or at least the
heads of it, under the same stone.



