
140			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

few years ago across the Penkill water at the village of Minni-
gaff, instead of one which was carried away by a flood; and one
was erected over the Minnoch last year, about half a mile above
its junction with the Cree. All the bridges in the parish are in
good condition.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church occupies a beautiful site on a
high tongue of land, formed by the confluence of the Cree and
Penkill, and overlooks the village, from which it is separated by
the latter stream. It is four miles from the southern and sixteen
from the northern boundary of the parish. It is conveniently si-
tuated for the majority of the parhshioners; but to those inhabit-
ing the higher parts of the parish, It is at a most inconvenient dis-
tance. This evil was distinctly felt upwards of 150 years ago;
but, with the exception of a preacher officiating for a short time
in the northern district, in the earlier part of last century, no at-
tempt was made to remedy the evil until 1837, when, shortly after
the induction of the present minister, vigorous efforts were made,
and subscriptions commenced, for the erection of a church at Bar-
grennan, about nine miles distant from the parish church. A
small but neat edifice was commenced in 1838, and opened for
public worship in 1839. A manse has since been erected, a neat
little building in the cottage style. The parish church was erect-
ed in 1836, and is a beautiful building in the Gothic style, with a
window of stained glass in the eastern gable, and an elegant tower.
It is built of red freestone, and the common whinstone (greywacke)
of the district, and cost L. 1800. It affords accommodation for
850 persons. There are six pews set apart for the poor, which
may accommodate 36 persons. All the sittings not appropriated to
the tenantry may be said to be free. The church at Bargren-
nan is seated for 207. The seats have lately been let at 1s.
6d. each, 14 sittings being free. No constitution has yet been
procured, though a dhstrict, comprehending portions of this pa-
rish, Penninghame, and Colmonell, has been assigned to it. A
licentiate of the church has officiated regularly since 1837. His
salary is L. 50 yearly, towards which the Earl of Galloway
contributes L.20, James Blair, Esq. of Penninghame, L. 10, and
the Rev. Mr Johnstone, L. 10. The remainder is supplied from
the collections, &c. There is no other place of worship within the
parish.
	The manse received considerable repair and additions in 1837,
two wings being added, and it is now a commodious house. For


