
			GLASGOW.                        171

distinguished members, Doctors Adam Smith, Trail, and Reid,
and Mr John Millar, the celebrated Professor of Law. A litera-
ry and commercial society was formed about the beginning of the
present century, and is composed of a number of gentlemen who
meet for the discussion of literary and commercial topics. Dur-
ing the twenty-seven years in which records have been kept, up-
wards of 200 essays have been read by the society.
	University.--The University of Glasgow is a corporate body,
consisting of a Chancellor, Rector, Dean, Principal, with Profes-
sors and Students.
	In 1451, Nicolas V., a pope distinguished by his talents and
erudition, and particularly by his munificent patronage of Grecian
literature, after having composed the great western schism, which
for more than half a century had distracted the states of Christen-
dom, was pleased to issue a Papal Edict, or Bull, establishing a
studium generate, or university in the city of Glasgow; the situa-
tion of which is described in the narrative as being, by the salubri-
ty of the climate, and the abundance of all the necessaries of life,
peculiarly adapted for such an institution. The instrument bears
that James II. King of Scotland had applied to the See of Rome
for this grant; for although an independent sovereign might claim
the power of erectinu universities within his own dominions, he
could not confer on the licentiates and doctors, who derived their
qualifications from such seminaries, the privilege of acting as
teachers and regents in all the seats of general study throughout
the bounds of the Catholic church, without any examination or
approbation, in addition to that which they received when they ob-
tained their academical degrees. This faculty was bestowed by,
apostolical authority on the graduates of the University of Glasgow,
along with all other liberties, immunities, and honours, enjoyed
by the masters, doctors, and students, in the University of Bologna.
	The University at first had received no endowments, and was
for years possessed of no property except the University purse, into
which were put some small perquisites on the conferring of degrees,
and the patronage of two or three small chaplainaries. At first
the University had no buildings of its own. It held its meetings,
in the chapter-house of the Blackfriars, or in the cathedral. But
these defects were in some measure supplied by the liberality of
James first Lord Hamilton, an ancestor of the noble house of
Hamilton, who, in the year 1450, gave to the Principal, and other
Regents of the College of Arts, for their use, and accommodation,


