
     Of Northmaven.

   Diseases.-Epidemic diseases prevail but seldom, owing
probably to our free air, and our houses being separated from
each other.  The rheumatism is a very common complaint,
both among the poor and rich.  There is a species of leprosy
that has been more prevalent than at present, and of which
we have had several miserable instances in this parish; it sel-
dom affects any but the lower class of people.  Its symptoms
approach nearer to those of elephanthiasis, than any other
description.  It is supposed to proceed from low living, un-
wholesome, or ill prepared food, and living nastily.  Many
poor objects under this disease have been sent to the infirmary
of Edinburgh, but they either died there, or returned un-
cured, and soon perished miserable spectacles of wretchedness.
This disease does not seem to be infectious; but in many in-
stances there is reason to suspect an heredity taint.  The
sufferers are, however, always set apart, and provided for, and
supplied by the parish.  When taken early, there are in-
stances of its being cured.  Convulsions were once very com-
mon in this parish, especially during the time of divine ser-
vice; but are now quite extinct.  The cure is attributed to
a rough fellow of a kirk-officer, who tossed a woman in that
state, with whom he was often plagued, into a ditch full of
water.  She was never known to have it afterward; and o-
thers dreaded the like treatment.  The small pox heretofore
proved extremely fatal.  Most of the old people in this pa-
rish, date their age from such a year before or after the mor-
tal pox, which was in 1700.  Inoculation was perfectly ge-

     Z Z 2

<FOOTNOTE>

by reason of the extreme scarcity then prevailing, some families were induced
privately to make use of their flesh, and all such declared it to be equal to any
other beef.  It may be objected, that hunger is a good sauce; but in Iceland and
Faro, where these whales are caught annually, their flesh is much esteemed.
Our coasts are also infested with the large grampus whale, from August to De-
cember.  Of these, our fishers are afraid, and avoid them as much as possible.
  

