
776                      LANARKSHIRE.

thoms below the splint coal, and varies from 10 to 16 inches in
thickness.  The ore varies exceedingly both in quality and colour.
The following is an analysis of a pretty good specimen of this mi-
neral as found in the district:-

<TABLE>
      Protoxide of iron,     .     .     .       .   38.
      Carbonic acid, and other volatile matter,  .   33.
      Silica,        .       .     .     .       .   11.2
      Lime,          .       .     .     .       .    7.4
      Alumina,       .       .     .     .       .    6.8
      Magnesia, and coaly matter,  .     .       .    3.6
                                                     -----
                                                    100.

   No lime is wrought in the parish; it lies far below all the coal
seams and beds of shale and freestone, and only crops out along
the edge of the great coal basin after these minerals are no longer
to be found.
   To the east and north-east of the red sandstone, the strata lying
between it and the black-band ironstone, may be seen cropping out
in succession upon the estates of Jerviston, Carfin, Stevenson,
Carnbroe, and Woodhall.  On the banks of the North Calder,
between Woodhall and Monkland Steel works, the splint coal and
black-band crop out, affording a fine section of the rocks with which
they are connected.
   The foundation, or under stratum, of all the coal measures in
this district is the moorstone rock, which is equivalent to the mill-
stone grit of the English fields.
   Mr John Craig of Glasgow has made a pretty extensive and
very interesting collection of organic remains found in this parish,
both vegetable and animal.  The vegetables are mostly Pinites,
and are usually found in strata of slate clay; beautiful speci-
mens of Equisetum, and various Calamites are also frequently
found; these occur in the shales, in several of the coals, and
also in the solid sandstone, and it is observable that they are
always converted into the substance in which they are imbed-
ded.
   Zoology.-The animals of this district are noticed at length in
the account of the parish of HauSiltoii, and it is unnecessary again.
to particularize them.  The relative numbers of the different
species may be stated as follows:-Mammalia, 29 species; birds,
195; reptiles, 8; fishes, 13; mollusca, 14, and insects noticed,
500.
   Salmon at one time abounded in this part of the Clyde, but


