
     of Edinburgh, etc.

titudes of females abandoned to vice, and a great many at a
very early period of life, before passion could mislead, or rea-
son teach them right from wrong.  Street-robbers, pick-pock-
ets, and thieves, had much increased*.
   In 1763-House-breaking and robbery were extremely rare.
Many people thought it unnecessary to lock their doors at night.
   In 1783, 1784, 1785, 1786, and 1787-House-breaking,
theft, and robbery, were astonishingly frequent; and many of
these crimes were committed by boys, whose age prevented
them from being objects of capital punishment.  The culprits
were uniformly apprehended in houses of bad same, in which
they were protected and encouraged in their depredations on
the public.  During the winter, 1787, many daring robberies
and shop-breakings were committed, by means before un-
thought of; but the gang were discovered, by one of them
becoming evidence against the rest, and the others suffered
capital punishment+.
   In no respect was the sobriety, and decorum of the lower
ranks in 1763 more remarkable, than by contrasting them with
the riot and licensiousness of 1783, particularly on Sundays
and holidays.  The King's birth-day and the last night of

<FOOTNOTE>

*A late calculator estimates 40,000 prostitutes in London.-That is
40,000 wretched human beings in one city, not only lost to themselves and to
society, but the cause of extending destruction to others.  Is it not worthy
of enquiry, how this astonishing change of manners should have arisen, and
the probable consequences of its increase to the state?  Vice soon spreads its
influence from individuals to families-from families to cities-from cities to
the empire,-and an empire corrupted is an empire lost.
   In high life, the change of manners is equally astonishing, and alarming to
the state,-witness the almost daily trials for crim coy.
   It is believed that one great source of the evil pointed out will be found in
the licentiousness of the press, in the present day; and another in the neglect
of religious education.-A tax on novels would be a salutary measure in go-
vernment.
     See Brodie's Trial.


