
		         KIRKNEWTON.                         439

occasionally along the Almond, where several indigenous thickets
of hazel, and sloe, and mountain ash, contribute to the picturesque
beauty of their respective streams, there are no natural woods,
which, however, is in some degree compensated for by the extent
of the plantations, which, particularly towards the northern and
eastern boundaries of the parish, add richness and variety to the
landscape.
   The Orchis tribe, with the Parnassia and Pinguicula, abound
throughout the ditches and moist pastures. The raspberry and
strawberry are plentiful in the woods; and in the muirland parts of
the parish, the Drosera rotundifolia, Abama ossifraga, and Erio-
phorum vaginatum, are frequent.
   Of particular trees there are few deserving of much notice.
The small portion of the park of Hatton which lies within this pa-
rish contained several very handsome specimens of the sweet chest-
nut and beech; and at Bellfield, though the position is exposed,
there were some very fine sycamores; but these have all gone to
the saw mill,-the former recently, and the latter previous to the
death of the late Earl of Morton. At Calderhall, however, there
are several large elms; and also, to the west of the house, there is
a fine group of tall Scotch firs, far beyond an average size. And
at Meadowbank, there are silver firs sufficiently remarkable to have
been noticed in a late edition of Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Of
these the finest is at the bottom of the flower garden, and is a very
remarkable tree, both from the unusually picturesque mode of its
growth, and also from its having attained its present large size
within the period of sixty-five years.
                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-Reference, has already been made to an
account of the parish of Kirknewton in the "Reports on the State
of certain Parishes in Scotland, made to His Majesty's Commis-
sioners for Plantation of Kirks," &c., in pursuance of their ordi-
nance dated April 12, 1627. This document was printed at
Edinburgh, 1835, and presented to the Maitland Club by Alex-
ander Macgregor, Esq. It contains some curious information.
The whole parochial establishment appears to have been then in
a most dilapidated condition. "The kirk is ruinous, the roof al-
ready deeayit." "Thair is a schoole in the parachoun, but lyke-
lie to dissolve the next terme for want of maintenance."
   In the "Report of the several Parochial Ministers in Scotland
to the Committee of the General Assembly's Queries for prepar-
ing a Plan, for augmenting of Ministers' Stipends," there is an


