
184                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

rivers will be almost totally exterminated by the joint effects of these
different sources of destruction." The remark is true with regard
to the salmon-fisher, which was at one time important enough,
to be expressly retained by the family of Cumbernauld, when they
dispensed with the rest of their property in this neighbourhood.
That the number offish has generally decreased is also very proba-
ble. The chief kinds now found are the following;-the reader,
however, will remark, that I am not quite satisfied in my mind as
to the Salmo albus.

      Salmo salar, common salmon	        Leuciscus rutelus, roach, Scotticä, braize
      ------fario, common trout  	        --------- phoxinus, minnow
      ------albus, whiteling or white trout	Perca fluviatilis, common perch
      Esox lucius, common pike

   Botany.-The only thing worthy of remark in the botany of
this district is the immense quantity of Lathyrus solicaria, or pur-
le-spotted loosestrife, which fringes the southern bank of the ca-
nal, and in the mouths of July and August, when in full blossom, ex-
hibits a rich display of purple spikes of flowers, and altogether pre-
sents to the eye a peculiarly gay and captivating appearance. The
IRIS pseudacorus, or yellow. water iris, and the Menyanthes trifoliata,
also contribute to swell the more than usual exuberance of ver-
dure. In this entangled mass of foliage there may be occasional-
ly detected a few specimens of that rare and beautiful plant Lysi-
machia thyrsiflora, or tufted loosestrife, and also some rare Cari-
ces, and a variety of interesting aquatic plants. The Arenaria
verna, or vernal sandwort, rather a rare plant, occurs in dry gra-                                        gra-
velly places between Cadder and Kirkintilloch. A variegated va-
riety of the Urtica urens, or common nettle, sometimes occurs. The
Sambucus ebulus abounds in a field on the northern precincts of the
parish, near the mansion-house of Glorat. The Valeriana offici-
nalis is more common here than in Lanarkshire.
   The principal plantations are on the estate of Gartshore. They
extend to upwards of 326 acres, and are finely and very imposing-
ly laid off. 'The trees chiefly planted are larch, spruce, and
Scotch fir; but little hard-wood. The principal mansion-houses
in the parish are well ornamented with trees, and there are some
pretty extensive plantations, as at-Boghead, but not so important
as to require to be specified.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   This district must have been of great importance so far back as
the time of the Romans, as it was here that they had one of their
Principal forts. In the year 1184, the town of Kirkintilloch was
erected into a burgh of barony by William the Lion. Before the


