
                            TRANENT.                          303

nance of two lunatics in asylums adds considerably to the burdens
on the parish.
   The annual assessment for the poor amounts to about L. 440 or
L 430, of which not above L. 1.15 is derived from collections at
the church door and mortcloths. There are no other funds available
for the purpose.
   It is to be feared that the disposition among the poor to refrain
from seeking parochial relief, is far from diminishing, and the for-
some feeling that it was a degradation to accept of pa-
rish aid, or to allow their relations to be a burden on the poor's
funds, is fast wearing out among the lower orders.
   Prisons.-The nearest prison is that of Haddingtong the county
town, seven miles distant. There is a district constable stationed
at Travent, who has a temporary lock-up room.
   Fairs.-There cannot now be said to exist any fairs in the pa-
rish. Cockenzie fair was formerly a place of considerable resort
on the first Thursday of November, for the purpose of hiring ser-
vants and providing clothes and other articles for the winter; but
since the introduction of shops, it has almost entirely dwindled away.
   Inns, Alehouses.-There are two inns at Tranent, with respectable
accommodation. The number of ale-licenses, including the above
inns, granted in the parish, amounts to no less than 40, being twenty-
six for the village of Tranent, nine for Cockenzie, two for Portseton,
two for Elphingstone, and one for the Meadowmill. The Justices
of Peace have, of late years, done all in their power to diminish the
number; and it would certainly be a great boon to the country,
were the public-houses greatly reduced. *
   Fuel.-The supply of coal in every part of the parish, is most
abundant and cheap; the quality is rather soft, and does not con-
tain so much bitumen as in many other districts; it is procured in
various parts of the parish, and the highest price at the pit-mouth
is at present 6s. 8d. per ton.

<FOOTNOTE>The keepers of alehouses at Cockenzie and Portseton have, lately, in imitation
of those in Prestonpans, entered into a most praiseworthy resolution to abstain from
opening their houses on the Sabbath except to wayfaring people, and have publicly
bound themselves to observe this rule.

   March 1839.


