
     of Swinton and Simprin.

vided among the 12, gives L. 2: 14 s. 6 d. each, which may
aid, but cannot supersede their industry, or the kind of-
fices of their immediate friends.-The people of this
parish are humane, clever, and ingenious, and seem to have
the advantage of the Northumbrians on one side of them, and
of the East Lothianers on the other.  The incumbent, after
a very long residence among them, cannot find any truth in
the observation of an ingenious, learned, and witty Lord,
who said that the natives of the Merse were engendered in
mud, brought up in mud, and that their ideas were all
muddy.
Inclosing they have been long reconciled to, and it has for
some time been universal; the commutation of the statute la-
bour into money they submit to with a tolerable grace.-
Turnpikes and toll-bars, with which they are now threatened,
they most heartily abhor*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Most of the labourers in husbandry are hired by the half year; the
day labourers are often a set of neat, clean, young girls, who feed in
then parents houses, and employ themselves in that easy and wholesome
exercise, for 4 d. 5 d. or 6 d, according to their age and skill, without victuals
from their employer; and who deck themselves out with their purchases in
Swinton October fair by their gains.  Mowers have without meat generally
18 d. a day, though they often undertake it at 2 s. or 2 s. 6 d per acre.  Stout
women reapers have from 10 d. to 11 d. and 3 meals.-Men 1 s. and sometimes
13 d. and their meals.  Coin is generally threshed by weight for the 25th part
of what is threshed and dressed, but during harvest no stout man at his liberty
will thresh upon any other terms, than being paid as a reaper.  Carpenters and
masons always find their own meat, and are paid from 1 s 3 d. to 2 s. according
to their skill, the nature of the work, and the length of the day.  Taylors, who
always get their meat where they work, now exact 8 d. per day.  A coal cart
drawn by two horses is loaded at the coal-hill for from 2 s. to 3 s. according as
the coal is small, great, or splint; the two last being double of the first, and
the hire of the cart and horses to Swinton is 3 s. which is encreased every mile
as carters carry them farther.

