
                      LAURENCEKIRK,                            141

are of inferior size and accommodation; the offices are slated,at
least partially. At entry the buildings are made over at a valua-
tion, and a small sum is given out of the first rents for making ad-
ditions and repairs; sometimes wood is also given upon inventory.
At expiry of leases, the houses must be left of the same value, and
of the additional value of the money and wood allowed by the pro-
prietor at entry. Sometimes the tenant is allowed to meliorate tn
a certain extent over and above this, for which he is paid at his
removal. No allowance is made to the tenant for carriages. This
mode of keeping up, and of making additions to the farm-build-
ings, by throwing the principal part of the burden on the tenant, is
objectionable in many respects, and particularly as compelling him
to apply capital for the purpose of building and repairing houses
that ought to be used for the improvement of his farm, and in
making a profitable return.
	"The parish is only very partially enclosed. About fifty or sixty
years ago, after Lord Gardenstone purchased the lands of John-
ston and Blackiemuir, the village was laid out on a regular plan,
the whole estate was divided into regular fields, enclosed with,
hedges and hedge-rows, and plantations were also made with much
taste on different parts of the estate. Except for the purpose of
shelter and forming marches, between the different allotments of
land, these hedges are now of little value; but still with the hedge-
rows, they give the village and adjacent ground a rich and wood-
ed appearance. Part of the adjoining lands appear to have been
enclosed with thorn-hedges about the time when Johnston had
been enclosed; but to the hedges little attention has been paid,
and few, if any, additional enclosures have since been formed. In
this respect mtch remains to be done."
	"Few or no improvements have lately been made; what has been,
done is chiefly in opening new roads through the parish, which is well
supplied with what are called parish roads. The communication with
the coast has been greatly improved by the opening of two leading
lines of road, which pass at the castern and western extremities of this
parish,of which the one was made only recently, and the other about
thirty years ago. Within the last twenty-five years about 80 acres
of marsh grounds have been well drained; but there is still a piece
of land of nearly the same extent, standing greatly in need of the
same improvement. This, however, cannot be effected without the
removal of a dam-dike, of which the privilege belongs to the mill


