
                        PERTH.                           83

ing of a pend (arch) over a piece of waste ground, between the
sOuth gavel of the new council-house, and the ruinous tenement
on the north shore."  This was done to complete the western front
of the building.  At this pend or arch the passage boats on the, Tay
were moored, By an act of council they were all ordered to lie
here durinG, night.
   In 1619, the council appointed their meetings to be on Monday,

and that those who should come in later than nine o'clock should
be fined in 6s. 8d.  In the same year they passed "an act prohi-
biting persons speaking in the council without leave, and that the
offenders should be fined 2s. for each offence."
   In no burgh of Scotland are the honour, the respectability, and
the general good of the community consulted with more judg-
ment and fidelity than in Perth.  In confirmation of what I say I
refer to the contents of the printed "Local Report from Commis-
sioners on the Municipal Corporations of Scotland."  There, there
is given a state of the city affairs, full and distinct, which reflects
much credit on its functionaries.
   The office of magistrates, in large towns, is generally difficult
and laborious, however otherwise it may appear to the many, whose
knowledge of it is general and superficial.  They act without fee
or reward; and it frequently happens that, the more vigilant and
faithful and impartial they are, the more reviling treatment they
meet with from a multitude of the baser sort of people.  Their
gratuitous services insure to them no return of gratitude.  It is
matter of surprise, therefore, that persons of suitable respectabili-
ty should be found to fill the office of the magistracy, and parti-
cularly at the present time, when there is abroad so much of the
spirit of insubordination, and of a desire among the lowest and most
uneducated to have the supremacy in every department, both legis-
lative and executive.  Our forefathers knew how much extrinsic
circumstances, even those that are of no essential importance, in-
fluence the minds of the mass of the people.  They therefore as-
signed to their rulers certain distinctive insignia of office, from the
King downwards; and the practical result has been highly bene-
ficial.  He must be under the influence of the wildest and most in-
veterate levelling republicanism who will not acknowledlye this. It is
to be lamented, therefore, that among persons, from whose judg-
ment in other matters, sounder notions might be expected, there
should be attempts made to throw ridicule on these insignia.  To
the man of mere empty theory, the disparagement of these has the


