
630                    ARGYLESHIRE.

of Scotland, having brought this portion of the Highland national
territory to be but virtually a rural adjunct of those towns, espe-
cially of Glasgow and the towns on the Clyde, is a change singu-
lar enough in itself; and the conjoint influence of the two facts
now mentioned  must necessarily have bad an effect upon the
manners and habits of the native and resident population. Landed
property also has undergone several transfers since the period
of the last Statistical Account. It is believed that there are only
two estates in the parish similarly situated as at that period, all
the others having undergone transfer, diminution, or change.
Landed property has also undergone very great and material
improvements within the same period, in the greater portion of
it embraced by the united parish. This also has tended so far
to influence the habits and manners of the population. The
rural portion of the population has decreased in nnumber, while
what now, in every practical sense, may be called the town popu-
lation, has greatly increased. The general effect, morally and re-
ligiously considered, it is not perhaps easy to estimate. It must
be so far matter of opinion; nor, in these respects, would it be-
come the writer to institute any comparison between the two pe-
riods, not having been acquainted with the former of the two, and
having witnessed only a few years of the change which may still
be said to be in progress. The progress is one which has its ten-
dency to assimilate the population more to the standard of their
lowland neigbbourboods in habits and manners, and also to the
town population of those districts of Scotland. The villages in the
parish may be said to have locally the same influence as towns
have upon the population of the territory around. The change
produced and in progress still, must fall under.the general problem
which perhaps has too largely been solved, that such circum-
stances are more unfavourable than otherwise to an advance and
improvement in morality, and the desirable ascendancy of vital and
practical religion among the bulk of a population. The state of
this parish, too, falls in with that generally of our country at large
in a period of progressive physical improvement, or at least change,
-calling for and demanding additional and enlarged appliances of
those means which, by the Divine blessing, conduce to the nur-
ture and establishment of sound moral and religious principles,
which alone can conduce to the true happiness of any community
or country. It may be borne as a testimony to the population in
general, that they avail themselves of such means, in the measure


