
     General Appendix to

into an expensive corporation, always adduces those circum-
stances as pleas for enhancing the value of his labour.  And
the practice appears to be founded in the strictest laws of jus-
tice.  Every trade is expected to furnish subsistence to the ex-
erciser, and to reimburse the original expenditure; else it will
be a losing business, and must soon become extinct.  He, there-
fore, whose risk of time or money has been comparatively
great, must proportionably increase his income; otherwise he
injures his fortune, and leaves the world unable to perform
for his posterity what his predecessors did for him.  Now, the
time and expence, attendant on the course of education neces-
sary for a schoolmaster, are well known to be considerable:
the former, longer than is employed in the acquisition of most
other arts; and the latter, more than is required for the know-
ledge of many.  They also enter into a kind of corporation,
which, while it excludes a great number, does not operate, by
that exclusion, to the benefit of the rest.  It is, therefore, high-
ly unjust, that their wages should be so inadequate*; it is
highly unbecoming the nation, which regulates those wages;
and it is highly injurious to virtue, by discouraging one of
the most useful and important prosessions.
   There is another principle, which seems not less founded
in justice, nor less recognised in the code of honour; name-
ly, the duty of fulfilling engagements.  If an individual de-
clare that he has the disposal of a place of a certain annual
value, and invite persons properly qualified to become candi-
dates for that place; should the situation turn out inferior to

<FOOTNOTE>

*A report has been some time in circulation, that it is intended to augment
the salaries of that class of revenue officers, called gaugers; and perhaps it may
be a very necessary and proper measure.  But surely, if men of their education
and utility are entitled to more than 30 L. a-year, schoolmasters deserve some-
thing above 16 L.


