
                     COUPAR-ANGUS.                             1149

  date might require parochial aid.  It was hoped that the kirk-ses-
  sion would be able, from the, increase of the contributions at the
  church doors, and the small number of poor, who, for some years
  at least, were likely to require assistance, to realize such a sum
  as would render an assessment unnecessary beyond the period,
  when those, for whom the heritors engaged to provide, should
  cease to require support.  The scheme seemed to work well at
  first; but the funds which the kirk-session calculated on receiving
  have not equalled their anticipations, and the probability is, that ere
  long a legal assessment will be again resorted to.  One thing, how-
  ever, may be noticed as the result of this experiment, viz, that
  the poor are less disposed to refrain from asking parochial aid
  when there exists a legal assessment, than where the funds for
  their maintenance arise solely from voluntary contributions.
    Markets, &c.--There are yearly markets for horses and cattle,
  besides those which are held weekly.  These are now much less
  frequented, than they formerly were.
    Alehouses.--The number of houses at present licensed to sell
  spirits, &c. is 24,--a number most unnecessarily large for the size
  of the parish.
    Fuel.--The chief fuel employed is English coal, which is brought
  by the railway from Dundee.  It costs from L.1, 1s. to L.1, 2s.
  per ton.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
    Almost all the houses and the streets are now lighted with gas,
  a gas company having been established a few years ago.
    The steeple, which marks the town at a distance, is unconnect-
  ed with the church.  It was built in 1767, by a subscription among
  the inhabitants.   It stands on the site of the old prison, when
  Coupar was a burgh of regality.  The lower part of it is still em.
  ployed as a temporary place of confinement.
    There is a reading-room, provided with a dail London, and                                                           y
  several provincial newspapers.

    July 1843.


