
290                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

mond, who, along with it, held in their own right the lands of the
barony of Drummond proper, known now by the name of Dry-
men. They also were the proprietors of Roseneath, Auchendown,
and Cardross in Monteith. Balfron was given to the youngest
brother of the chief "Malcolm Big." How or when it passed
from their hands, we have not been able to discover. The lands
of the parish are now parcelled out amongst many proprietors or
heritors, all of whom are, with one or two exceptions, unfortunately
for the best interests of the parish, non-resident.
   Historical Notices.--In connection with this parish there are,
doubtless, many occurrences worthy of being noticed here. For
brevity, however, we select only the two following; the first af-
fords tbb last instance that we are aware of, of abduction being pu-
nished capitally in Scotland; and the second is a tradition in op-
position to what is generally supposed to have been the case by
the historians of the time. First, it was from Edinbelly, in this
parish, that Rob Roy, Junior, abducted Jean Kay or Wright;
and for which he suffered the last penalty of the law at Edinburgh.
Jean Kay, whom Rob abducted, was the heiress of Edinbelly, and,
though not quite fifteen years of age, was the widow of Mr Wright
of Wright's Park. She is described as being interesting enough
in her appearance, and rather of a comely countenance. One
evening, a very few weeks after Mr Wright's death, Rob, with
a party of fifteen Highlanders, landed unexpectedly at Edinbelly,
and carried the young widow off to his retreat in the Highlands.
Iii process of time he was pursued, taken, convicted, and executed
for the crime. Second, it was at Clockburn, in this parish, accord-
ing to a very common tradition, that the assassins of Archbishop
Sharp first drew bridle, after the murder of that prelate in
Magus Moor, in Fifeshire, on 3d May 1679. The distance tra-
velled could not have been less than seventy or eighty miles.
A solitary tree now marks the spot where, at the time referred to,
the house and offices of a small farm stood, and which afforded
the accommodation which men and horses required. Without
pretending to say how much credit should be attached to this tra-
dition, we may be allowed to state, that there is some presumption
of its truth, from the fact, that one of the conspirators, Balfour of
Burly, died at Roseneath, under the protection of his kinsman Ar-
gyle; and that the spot where the halt was made in this parish is
in the direct route, or what may have been supposed to have been
so, from Magus Moor to that place.


