
                             PERTH.                             81

glovers and skinners. The income of this corporation was, in
1832, L.1094, 4s. 8 1/2d. It has , eleemosynary roll to the ex-
tent of L.498, 10s. 9d. per annum. It has adopted a scheme for
giving annuities to superannuated members, and to widows, on the
principle of a legal right. There is "not a single operative glover
resident in Perth who is a member of the corporation."  *  The
Wright Corporation consists of seven sciences, viz. wrights, barbers,

<FOOTNOTE>craft, ordain that Wil. Thairpe, &c. abide the punishment threatened to them by the
bailies and council, and submit themselves in the minister and elders' will; and if
they or any of the craft shall hereafter be guilty of the like, to lose the liberties of
the corporation, and be banished the toun for ever." This minute was laid before
the session, and that court took up the matter as follows: "April 5, 1588. Whilk
day the minister and elders being presently convened, considered the idolatrous past-
time of several insolent young men in playing of Sanct Oberti's play, to the great
grief of the conscience of the faithful, and infamous slander of the haill congregation
throughout the haill country, have ordained for the present punishment of the same
and sic like idolatrous past-titnes in times coming, that Wil. Thairpe, &c., be put in
ward, there to remain unreleased while (until) every one of them has paid twenty
shillings to the poor; to put themselves on the seat of repentance, thereon to remain
the Sabbath day in time of sermon; and after to find caution, under the pain of ten
pounds, and doubling of the former punishment as oft as ever they offend therein-
never to do the like time coming; and if any of the forsaid be not responsible for
the twenty shillings, to stand in the irons of the cross, had on an mercat day, for the
payment; and this act to be extended upon all such idolatrous players and observers
of such like superstitious days in times to come, without exception."
  For several years after 1620, the incorporation transmitted to the council com-
plaints  against certain bakers, for baking oat-meal cakes, and the Council passed va-
rious acts on the subject. In 1625, the deacon, in name of the craft, commenced
an action against the bakers of cakes. In 1637, in consequence of a complaint given
in by him, "the selling of cakes was prohibited, under the pain of forfeiting the
meal, breaking of their girdles, and being fined-the eve of the fine to go to the ma-
gistrates, and the other to the bakers," i. e. the incorporation. In 1658, bakers were
licensed to bake oatmeal cakes.
  St Bartholomew was the patron saint of the corporation. They founded an
altar to him; and for keeping up the service of the altar, they appropriated a large
portion of their property in the Curfew row, or Couvrefew-street.
  Sir Walter Scott has immortalized the glover calling of Perth by his celebrated
and admired novel of "The Fair Maid of Perth, the daughter of Simon the Glover."
The calling is very opulent. It is not a little strange, therefore, that they should
have lately, by a deliberate deed of their craft, sold, for the trifling consideration of
about L.100, their Hall, which has acquired a classic notoriety, and, besides in one of
the most ancient buildings about the city.
  There is a place described in an old charter of this corporation an "the Vindaris,
near the said burgh, vulgarly called the Gilt Arbour of the Silver Book or Missal:-
Palia vestimenta sacerdotalia, and other ornaments of St Bartholomev, founded by
the said craft,"-i. e. skinners and glover. In a charter granted by the Provost
and council in the year 1585 to John Hunter, skinner, of a piece of ground, called
the Duk Dub, it is specially mentioned as lying on the west side of the mill-lade of
the burgh, and in a precept of clare constat, 1668, in favour of George Hay of Bal-
housie, in the lands of Gilt Arbour. It has the name, also, given it of "the
Cow Causeway." I take notice of this principally with reference to what Adamson,
in his Material History of Perth, avers, that King Robert III. witnessed from
this place the bloody conflict on the North Inch, between the M'Intoshes and the
M'Kays, 1396, and which Cant, the annotator of Adamson, assumes as certain. The
historian's averment is erroneous. It muust be evident to every person acquainted
with the locality of the place-the Cow Causeway-that from it neither the King nor
any one could witness such a scene on the Inch; and the charter and precept now re-
ferred to make it clear that the old hall could not, as traditionary report gives out,
be the Gilt Arbour.

   PERTH.                                       F


