
580                      ARGYLESHIRE.

sometimes it occurs finely laminated and- firmly grained.
south, and mostly at an angle of 451, It has been quarried and
used as roofing slates, both on the estate of Toward and in the
vicinity of Dunoon, and is still occasionally used, or has recently
been, at the latter place. Builders, however, have considered it
inferior to Balachulish and Easdale slate ; and the latter are al-
most always preferred.
    The clay-slate, again, passes into greywacke at the point of
Strone and at Toward. The greywacke is coarse-grained, and
alternates, at the junctiod, with the clay-slate in inconsiderable
strata.
    The old red sandstone skirts the shore from the farm of Ine-
land, five milds and a-half to the west of Dunoon, to within a mile
or upwards of Toward Castle. The whole of Toward point be-
longs to this formation, excepting where, on the west side of the
point, a considerable bed of limestone occurs. The red sand-
stone lies inconformably to the primary rocks below. Its lower
strata consist of a coarse conglomerate, made up of the fragments
of The adjacent sebists, and its upper strata are of a deep-red co-
lour, and not very firmly granulated. Its Position is Dearly hori-
zontal, or dips to the porth at very low angles. The red sand-
stone has been quarried at different periods, more or less, and used
in building. The old castle of Toward appears to have been
built mostly of this stone; but it is found to be somewhat porous,
and not of such firm consistency and adaptation to building pur-
poses as that occurring abundantly on the opposite shore of the
Frith of Clyde, in Renfrewshire.
   A narrow bed of limestone, as.noticed already, occurs near the
Light- house at the point of Toward, superimposed upon and con-
formed, as far as can be seen, to the red sandstone. The work-
ing of this limestone was begun, several years ago, by a former
proprietor of lands in the neighbourhood, but was abandoned as
an unprofitable speculation, the mineral proving impure, and loose-
ly aggregated. Another limestone bed occurs on the face- of the
hill rising westward of the point, on the lands of Castle Toward,
which has been occasionally wrought for farming purposes, and
the quality found sufficiently good. Certain provisions of statute,
or in the navigation code of the country, prohibiting the use
of lime-kilns within certain distances, or within view of Light-
houses, this quarry has ceased to be wrought since the erection of
the Light-house on Toward point. Limestone again occurs on the




