
     Statistical Account

certain can be learned as to their original use and design*.
The publick road from Markinch to the north, passes the 
west end of this hill, and, on a rising ground, on the opposite 
side of the road, stands a broad stone about 7 feet high, called 
the Stobb Crofs.  It is a very coarse piece of work, without 
any sculpture or characters on it, that can lead to the know- 
ledge of the design of its erection+.
   On the eastern extremity of the parish, in the farm of
Duniface, mortified to the United College of St. Andrew's, 
by a gentleman of the name of Ramsay, for the education of 
4 burfars at that college, there is a bill or eminence not un-
like the one just now mentioned.  On the north end of this 
hill, there is a spot of ground which rises higher than the rest, 
and is called the Maiden Castle, fenced on the south side by 
ditches, the vestiges of which remain to this day+.

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*Two reports prevail; the one is, that these terraces were originally ditches,
intended to strengthen an encampment, or military post on the top of the hill;
but that they have been levelled since for the purpose of tillage.  The other 
report is, that they were maide to accommodate spectators, assembled to behold 
certain public games, performed in the plain below;  which plain is called the 
Play-fields to this day. 
+Vulgar tradition says, that it was erected to the memory of a gentleman, 
who fell on this spot, in a mortal rencounter with one of his neighbours.  As this 
cross stands upon the very edge of the road, and 8 or 10 feet above its level, it 
has been in danger of tumbling dawn, by the earth's falling away from it.  The 
present Karl of Leven, therefore, caused it to be secured, by facing up the earth 
with a wall of stone and lime.
+Boethius calls it "Arx septinalis totidem fossis munita, olim possessio Fin
Duss, cujus potheritas, pen multa secula, can teanere."  Some pretend it was a 
seat of McDuff, Earl of Fife, and that there was anciently a subterraneous pas-
sage from it to Brunton, which lies about a quarter of a mile to the E. of Mark-
inch church, and where Malcolm, Earl of Fife, had a castle.  It is said that the 
entrance to this passage at Brunton was shut up so lately as in the time of the 
late John Simpson of Brunton.  Near the Maiden Castle a battle has been sought, 
probably between the Scots and Danes, as a great many stone-coffins, with hu-
man bones in them, have been lately discovered in the immediate neighbour-

</UNREADABLE>


