
46                          ORKNEY.

valent, owing to this peculiarity of the climate and our sudden
and frequent, changes of weather. Some cases of cramp may also
be ascribed to the dampness; and a neighbouring clergyman, who
is afflicted with loss of voice, has, more than once, been immedi-
ately cured by the air of Edinburgh. Dyspeptic complaints are
very common among the peasantry, but they are probably caused
by poor diet.
   Hydrography.-The Atlantic flows up into the bay on the west
side, for about half a mile, and the Loch of Stenness, about a mile
on the east, leaving little more than two miles at one place, be-
tween these two great waters. The Loch of Skaill or Aith, which
is nearly a mile long, and half that breadth, lies nearly in this
space; and the Loch of Clumly, which is more than half of these
dimensions, is a little south of that line. These lochs are of no
great depth or importance, and contain no fish except eels; but
the two latter turn mills, on their passage to the sea and Loch of
Stenness, and they relieve the tameness of the scenery,-their
surface, when smooth as a mirror, forming a striking contrast to
the troubled ocean bard by; and the sunset in fine summer even-
ings is most splendid, as seen from the manse, when the rays
are reflected from the sea, and also from one of the lochs.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Having been requested by neigh-
bouring clergymen to include their parishes in the description of
the natural history of my own, some branches of it will be found
more general in their application to other parishes, than would
otherwise have been necessary or proper. This is particularly
the case with the following remarks on geology.
   The rocks of this parish and the adjoining district, I shall de-
scribe,under the four following heads, viz. I. Granite; II. Slates
or flagstones; III. Sandstone; IV. Trap rocks.
   I. Granite.-The district where this rock occurs has been
lately ascertained to be much more extensive than it was for-
merly thoughy to be; for I have traced it, in company with the
Messrs Anderson of Inverness, from Graemsay to this parish.
The town of Stromness occupies the southern end of this tract,
which is about one mile broad, and extends from the Island of
Graemsay, which is the southern boundary, in a northerly direction,
for about six miles, till it passes out at a precipice in this parish,
on the west coast, where the Atlantic washes its base, and veils
it from the eye of the geologist. The sound which separates

<FOOTNOTE>Propesor Jameson, in his "Mineralogy of the Scottish Isles," gave the first sketch
of the geology of the Orkney Islands.


