
86                    LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

the account given by the late Earl of Buchan, was very anciently
in the possession of the family of Sutherland. From that family
it passed to the Douglasses about the beginning of the fifteent
century; then to Keiths, Earls Marischal; next to the Earls of
Winton and the Oliphants, and sometimes called, on that account,
Strathbroke Oliphant. From them it came by purchase to Sir
Lewis Stewart, whose grand-daughter, Katherine Stewart, marrying
Henry Lord Cardross, it came by descefit to the present Earl,
Henry David Erskine. The present Earl succeeded his uncle,
David Stewart Erskine, the eleventh Earl of Buchan, in 1829.*
His own father, the late Honourable Henry Erskine, that most
distinguished member of the Scottish Bar, was twice Lord Ad-
vocate of Scotland in 1782 and 1806. After a long, laborious,
and brilliant professional career, extending over a period of forty-
four years. Mr Erskine retired from public life, and spent the re-
mainder of his days in domestic retirement at his beautiful villa of
Amondell, in this parish, where he died on the 8th of October
1817, in the seventy-first year of his age. The remains of this
most celebrated barrister, also of the late Lord Chancellor
Erskine, his brother, are deposited in the family vault adjoining
Uphall Church.
   Next to his Lordship, in respect of extent of property, is
Norman Shairp, Esq. of Houstoun. The valuation of his estate
is L. 720.
   The Shairps of Houstoun have held property (varying in extent
at different periods), in the parish of Uphall, for nearly four hun-
dred years. It is said that their ancestor, whom Nisbet calls
William E'scharp, came from Normandy with David II. The
first of the family of whom, history makes particular mention, is
Sir John Shairp, Knight, Advocate for Queen Mary, who acquired
most of the property, and in whose time it is said the oldest part
of Houstoun House was built. Since his time, many of his de-
scendants have distinguished themselves in battle-and the graves
of some are on famous fields.
   Thomas Shairp, Esq. of Houstoun, held a pre-eminent place
in the opposition party in the Union Parliament, in which, along
with his brother-in-law, Murray of Livingston, he represented the
county of Linlithgow. In the time of his successor, the property
of Houstoun was the largest in the county of West Lothian.
<FOOTNOTE> *See, Account of the parish of Upball, 1st vol of Transactions of the Society of
Antiquaries.


