
146               INVERNESS-SHIRE.

to be found.  On the north-west side, is a fine sandy bay, above
which there is a considerable extent of low rich ground, very fertile,
and yielding excellent crops of potatoes, bear, and oats. Here,
there is a great quantity of limestone, which might easily be worked,
and made available for agricultural and other useful purposes. No
attempt of this kind, however, has been as yet made. It is entirely
formed of shells.
  Scur Eigg.-Scur Eigg is an immense rock, placed on the summit
of the highest land in the island. The front of it looks towards the
east, and from the sea assumes a bold and picturesque appearance.
From the base it is about 400 feet in perpendicular height. In
a clear serene day, the prospect from the top of this rock is beautiful
and extensive. From this, you see the ocean studded with
islands; ships of all sizes passing and repassing on their various
courses; hills and dales, mountains and glens,-witb one continued outline 
of coast; all of which to the eye of the beholder must
be indeed very interesting.  Numerous caves are around the coast;
some of them wide and spacious, and some low and narrow. Among
these, is one called in Gaelic naimh Fhraing, signifying the cave
of Frances,-so narrow at the mouth, that a person must creep on
bands and knees to obtain an entrance. Within, it is lofty and extensive.
In this cave, a great many human bones are still to be
seen, said to be the bones of the inhabitants of the island, who were
Macdonalds, and who had taken refuge in it as a place of safety,
where they were discovered and suffocated by the Macleods, then at
enmity with them.  Professor Jameson gives the following account
of this cave:-
    "The minister of this parish, who was so good as to accompany
us to several parts of the island, led us by a very rugged path to
a wild sequestered spot where there is a cave, remarkable, in the
annals of this isle, for the murder of the Macdonalds, inhabitants
of Eigg, by the Macleods of Skye. As this story is truly charac-
teristic of the state of society in those parts at that period, I think
it will not be uninteresting to relate it shortly.
   " A party of the Macleods having landed upon the small island
of Eillan Chastel, behaved so outrageously to the women who
were there tending cattle, that their friends instantly pursued and
put several of them to death. This so enraged the clan of Mac-
leod, that they determined to take revenge, by ravaging the isle
and putting to death the murderers of their brothers. The island-
ers, sensible of their weakness, prepared to shelter themselves upon


