
                        ASSYNT.                            111

vice, and be having married an heiress, was enabled thereby to
purchase the estate of Geanies in Rogs-shire, He was succeeded
by his eldest son Hugh, and Hugh by his son Donald Macleod of
Geanies, the late venerable Sheriff-depute of Ross and Cromarty,
who filled that office with credit to himself and advantage to his
country nearly sixty years; having departed this life in January
1834, in the 89th year of his age.  His eldest son predeceased
his father, leaving a son, still a minor, the present representative
of the, family.
  Parochial Register.-There is no register of date previous to
1798.  Since that period, births and marriages have been recorded
with tolerable regularity, but there is  no register of deaths.
   Antiquities.-1. Ardvrack Castle, supposed to be built about
the year 1581 or 1591 by the Macleods, who originally came from
Lewis.  It has for a considerable period been in ruins, but appears
to have been strongly built and fortified.
  2. Calda House, a more, modern building, erected by the Mackenzies,
who succeeded the Macleods as Lairds of Assynt.  This
building was destroyed by fire, (some say designedly,) about 100
years ago.  Nothing remained but the bare walls.
  3. There is a very large dun or heap at Clachtoll, the remains
of a Druidical temple, with a double line  of stone wall on the
landward side ; towards the sea it is sufficiently protected by that
element, and a rocky shore.  It used to be called " The talmhidh
na Druinich," i. e, the earthly house of the Druids.
  4. Close to the parish church there is an enclosed burying.
ground, in which are interred several of the Macleods of Assynt.
This building is evidently part of what was once a place of worship.
The following tradition connected with it explains the cause
of its being built:
  One Angus Macleod, supposed to be the great-grandson of the
first Laird of Assynt of that name, bad a quarrel with some neighbouring
family.  Out of revenge, he set fire to their chapel or
place of worship.  The consequence of this sacrilegious act was,
his being excommunicated by the Pope.  The displeasure of the
Roman Pontiff was a serious matter. in those days.  Angus submitted,
and asked forgiveness at Rome, This was granted, but by
way of penance he was enjoined to erect three places of worship,

<FOOTNOTE>When the estate wps sold. as mentioned above, some smal compensation for the
losses of the family was granted by the Crown to the then proprietor, Hugh Macland
Esq. of Geanies.


