
                            DYSART.				139

  Navigation.-Formerly the shipping interest of the Port of Dy-
sart was considerable, by far the greatest of any in Fife. Now,
however, there are only a few brigs and a few sloops, and there are
no foreign vessels to the port, except now and then one from Hol-
land or from the Baltic, or when coals are ordered for the Northern
Lighthouses.
                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Burgh.-The only town in the parish is the town or burgh of Dy-
sart. It consists chiefly of three narrow streets, with a species of square
in the centre. The central or High Street is full of antique substan,-
tial houses, the fronts of which are generally decorated with in-
scriptions and dates, and in one part of it with piazzas. The piaz-
zas are places in which the merchants in olden times exposed their
goods to sale, but the greater number of them are now built up,
so that the houses themselves scarcely retain a vestige of what was
thought no small part of their ancient grandeur.
  The burgh was lately disfranchised, owing to some informality
in the Michaelmas elections; and its affairs at present are under the
superintendence of three managers, nominated by the Court of
Session. The revenue of the buirgh is about L. 500 or L. 600. The
nearest market-town to it is Kirkaldy.
  Villages.-There are three villages in the parish, Pathhead, Gal-
laton, and Boreland. Pathhead is in the western extremity of the pa-
rish, at the head of a steep descent leading to Kirkaldy called the
Path, and from thence it derives its name. It is divided into Path-
head Proper or Dunnikier, and Sinclairton. The former or old
town, which is of very ancient date, is built on the estate of Dun-
nikier. It consists of three principal streets, the Back, the Mid-
dle, and the Nether Street, at the end of which last street, iis the
house long inhabited by the family of Dunnikier. The latter, or
New Town, is built on the estate of the Earl of Rosslyn, ind is ser-
parated from the former by the great road leading to Dundee.
The building of it commenced about seventy years ago, and ex-
tends about a mile north, where it joins the village of Gallatoh.
The population in this part of the parish, as will be seen from thb
last census, is 3764.
  Gallaton is a village of considerable extent. It is divided into
Easter and Wester Gallaton. The population of both is 1053. There
are two traditions respecting the origin of the name. The one is,
that under the feudal system, the field on which the first house was
built was the place where criminals were executed. The other


