
			STEVENSTON.                        461

manufacture of magnesia carried on by Mr Burns at Saltcoats, em-
ploying a number of hands in its various manipulations. The pro-
duce is mostly sent to London and New York, in wholesale, to
large drug-houses. This was the first established manufacture of
the kind in Scotland. The wages given at the salt and magnesia
works are about 12s. per week.
   Rope-Yard.--This was in a flourishing state when the former
Statistical Report was written. It fell greatly off; but it is now
beginning to revive, giving employment to from six to eight hands.
The introduction of patent machinery has been of great service.
   Ship-Building, when the former report was written, was in a
most prosperous state in Saltcoats. About a year ago, there was
great appearance of its becoming prosperous again; and many car-
penters were employed, but it is again at a stand.
   Trade and Shipping of Saltcoats.--In these also, we must record
a great falling off. It is not easy to separate the trade of this
harbour from that of Ardrossan. We may, in general, however,
state, that there are about thirty vessels of from 20 to 250 tons re-
gister, that trade from the port of SaItcoats, amounting to nearly
3000 tons, and employing about 180 men. We find that in 1833,
the value of exports to foreign parts between the ports amounted
to about L. 600. The chief exportations, however, are to Ireland.
In 1833, the value of earthenware exported was L. 325; of leather,
L.30; of herrings, L. 2423; of saddlery, L. 14; woollen manu-
factures L. 60; of freestone, L. 599; of coal, L. 7000. The
trade has been gradually increasing since that time; and in par-
ticular the exportation of freestone, and still more of coal, has great-
ly increased; and the exportation of coal to foreign ports has be-
come considerable. Though there is no account kept of them,
there are a number of wherries which come from the Highlands
with herrings, &c. and carry away coals to a very considerable ex-
tent every week.
   The imports are chiefly from Ireland. Betwixt both harbours
in 1833, the value of oats imported was L. 5293; of butter, L. 630;
of limestone, L. 186; of beef and bacon, L. 76. In all, during
that year, the imports from Ireland in value L. 6366; and the ex-
ports to Ireland L. 10,202. There is a considerable importation
of timber, but that seems chiefly to have come to Ardrossan.
   To save us from referring to it again, we may here briefly men-
tion, that L. 1000 could be laid out to admirable advantage at
Saltcoats, in deepening the harbour, and in extending the pier to


