
     of Cargill.

Gool-riding, which seems worthy of observation.  The lands
of Cargill were formerly to very much over-run by a 
weed with a yellow flower that grows among the corns,
especially in we seasons, called Gool, and which had the
most pernicions effects, not only upon the corns while
growing, but also in preventing their winning after cut
down, that it was found absolutely necessary to adopt some
effectual method of extirpating it altogether.  Accordingly,
after allowing a reasonable time for procuring clean seed
from other quarters, an act of the baron-court was passed,
enforcing an old act of Parliament to the same effect*, im-
posing a fine of 3 s. 4 d. or a wedder sheep, on the tenants,
for every stock of gool that should be found growing among
their corns at a particular day, and certain persons, styled
gool-riders, were appointed to ride through the fields, search
for gool, and carry the law into execution when they dis-
covered it.  Though the fine of a wedder sheep, originally
imposed for every stock of gool found growing in the ba-
rony, is now commuted and reduced to 1 d.  Sterling, the
practice of gool-riding is still kept up, and the fine rigidly
exacted.  The effects of this baronial regulation have been
falutary, beyond what could have been well expected.
Five stocks of gool were formerly said to grow for every
stock of corn through all the lands of the barony, and 20
     Vol. XIII. 3 Y

<FOOTNOTE>

them, and are probably the rude remains of Pagan superstition.  The
corn-field where these stones stand is called the Moonshade to this day.
   There are several round artificial little hills, or conical mounds, in
this parish called Laws, particularly one at Lawton, the property of George
Wrigh, Esq; which, as it is situated in the near neighbourhood of Mac-
beth's Castle, on Dunfinnan hill, is said to have been the place where
Macbeth dispensed laws and settled differences among his subjects.
   Near the villages of Gallowhill is field called the Gallowshade, which
was a place of execution under the seudal system.

*Boethius, lib. 10. mentions a law made by King Kenneth, to prevent
the growth of manaleta, or gool, and imposing a fine of a mutton upon a
native who breaks it; and of an ox for a similar trespass on a stranger.


