
166                          WIGTONSHIRE.

chen and dining-room, and repairs are still required. The glebe
is about eight acres in extent. The grain stipend consists of 4
chalders of meal and 4 chalders of barley.
	The number of families attending the Established Church is
410; of Dissenting or Seceding families, 74; of Episcopalian fa-
milies, 2; of Roman Catholic families, 10.
        Education.-There are, besides the parochial school, five others
not endowed. Only the common branches of education are or
can be taught in the private schools. The branches taught in the
parochial school are, English, writing, arithmetic, English grammar,
Latin, Greek, and French, with book-keeping, and practical ma-
thematics. The rate of wages at the parochial school, which may
be said to regulate those of the others, is 2s. 6d. per quarter for
reading English; 3s. when writing is learnt with it; 3s. 6d. for
English grammar and arithmetic; Latin, Greek, and French,
with book-keeping, 5s. The parochial schoolmaster's salary is
L. 25, 13s. 3d.; and his school fees do not exceed L. 10 a year.
The number of the young between six and fifteen years of age who
cannot read or write is 23, and the number above fifteen who can-
not read or write is 4.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid amounts to about 60. The amount of contri-
butions, on an average, may be stated thus: From church collec-
tions, L. 55; legal assessments, L. 58.
        Ale-housess.-There are 5 licensed ale-houses or inns in the
parish.
        Fuel.-The fuel generally used is peat, cut frnl mosses on the
estates of Freugh and Port of Spittal.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The parish presents, undoubtedly, striking changes since the
date of the Old Account-in the mode of farming, and in the ge-
neral aspect of the parish. Besides the parochial road from Stran-
raer to Kirkmaiden, passing through this parish, about eight miles
along which the mail is carried thrice every week,-another road,
almost parallel, runs through the western district, and opens a
communication with Kirkmaiden and Portpatrick on the west.
These roads are again intersected with three others, which afford
a communication through the whole parish, and great accommoda-
tion to the farmers. Still, there is a want of roads in the northern
district of the parish. The public are in daily expectation if en-


