
210                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

dow. This expensive work was also undertaken with the view of
gaining access to a bed of marl which the loch contains. But,
though the water was nearly all carried off the surface of the loch,
yet the moss was not laid sufficientlx dry to admit of cartage,
and this treasure has not hitherto been obtained.
	At Barwhinnie loch, near Palnackie, six acres of moss, covered
with water, were lately, by draining and cultivation, converted into
meadow of the richest quality.
	Embankments.--Twenty acres of carse land, on the banks of the
Urr, and bay of Orchardton, subject to be flooded at high spring-
tides, have been embanked, and rendered fit for cultivation. Land
to a greater extent, on the estates of Orchardton and Almerness,
was enclosed by embankments; but these having been ill con-
structed, or insufficiently executed, were soon broken down, and
rendered useless.
	Quarries.--A granite quarry was opened, about ten years ago,
on Craignair-hill, by the Liverpool Dock Trustees, under favour-
able auspices, and this quarry for several years afforded occupa-
tion to nearly 200 individuals. A large quantity of well-dressed
blocks, some of them weighing from seven to eight tons, were ship-
ped to Liverpool. The difficulty, however, of finding blocks of
sufficient size, and the great expense attending the operations, led
to the abandonment of the undertaking. Were granite to come
into more general use, it is very probable that this quarry would
again be opened. Independent of the stone being of the first
quality, its locality so near a sea-port enables it to be easily re-
moved. The improvements in quarrying, splitting, and dressing
are likely also to reduce the expense.
	Craignair quarry still gives employment to a few hands for lo-
cal purposes, such as gate-posts, monuments, tombstones, &c.
The ornamental work and lettering of these, and also the polish-
ing of slabs for lobby-tables, watch-seals, &c. show great improve-
ment, and do credit to the workmen in the district.
	Minerals.--Neither coal nor lime have been found in this pa-
rish: these are imported from the opposite coast of Cumberland.
From partial workings that have been made on the state of Kirk-
ennan, there is every appearance that this property abounds with
valuable iron ore.
	Fisheries.--The salmon fisheries in the river Urr were, at a
former period, of considerable value. The report of old inhabi-
tants still alive is, that the fishing belonging to the estate of


