
				KILBRIDE.			11

lays and the hills, there are usually from five to ten inches of loam
mixed with gravel, resting for the most part upon lose red till.
The land in such places is therefore cold and spouty; and would
be materially benefited by furrow-drains and the subsoil plough.
The extensive tracts of table-land between the promontories con-
tain a considerable portion of the same kinf of loam that is found
in the vallyes; but their predominating soil is a mixed loam of
moss and red friable clay. In the narrow belts of land which are
situated between the shore and those rocky banks which skirt so
much of the coast, the soil presents great varieties. Sometimes it
is sand mixed with sea-shells; sometimes moss resting upon marl.
In the south, about Whitingbay, much of if is shingle, or light
sandy loam, with red clay marl under it. The parish contains very
few farms presenting much uniformity of soil. It sometimes hap-
pens that the same field present one patch of stiff clay, another
or soft, moss, and another of laom or gravel, or both mixed to-
gether, with as many kinds of subsoil resting under them.
	Zoology.--I Quadruprds.--At one peiod, when wood was
abundant, roes, wild boars, and red-deer were very nemerous in the
parish. Of these, the two former were long ago extirpated; and
the last are now reduced to a few dozens, which are rarely seen
except in the most retired recesses of the mountains in the north
of the island. The Duke of Hamilton placed a pair of small
American deer, a few years ago, in the pleasure grounds about
Brodick Castle. They appear to thrive well, and have already a
numerous offspring, which roam at large among the plantations.
Hares and rabbits are very plenriful, and there are a few wild.
goats. Few quadrupeds of prey ever found their way to Arran.
It contains some wild cats, but polecats, badgers, stoats, weasels,
and squirrels were never seen in it. It contained foxes at one
time, but they are now extirpated. The brown rat is very com-
mon, and commits great depredations in the dwelling-houses and
barn-yards. Of amphibious quadrupeds, seals and otters are oc-
casionally seen along the shore.
	2. Fishes.--the rivers of the parish abound in trouts and eels,
but they are generally small in size. With a view to the improve
ment of the former, minnows were brought a few years ago from
Ayrshire, and put in theseveral rivers and lakes of Arran. The
result of the experiment cannot for some time yet be ascertained.
When the rivers are swollen in number, salmon and sea-trout as-
cend it considerable numbers, when they are caught both with the


