
			      DALZIEL.                      467

individual. There was a savings' bank in the parish, but owing to
the depressed state of trade and other causes, it has been shut for
some time.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--Average number receiving paro-
chial aid, 14; average allowance to each, 6s.; average amount of
collections at the church, L.16, 10s.; from mortcloths, L.2, 5s,
The poor were supported entirely by the weekly collections at
the church, (towards which the Dalziel family contributed liberal-
ly) by collections at marriages, and by money arising from mortcloths,
till the year 1831, when we were under the necessity of having re-
course to a legal assessment, the average amount of which yearly
is L.50. This has had the effect here, as I believe everywhere,
of diminishing that feeling of independence and reluctance to ask
or to receive parochial aid, which was formerly so characteristic of
the people of Scotland.
	Inns, &c.--There are four public-houses in the parish, which
have a most injurious effect upon the morals of the people, and
in increasing poverty and disease. Licenses are too easily ob-
tained, and no care is taken here to grant no more than what are
absolutely required. There is no police as in cities, to maintain
and enforce regularity upon the keepers of such houses. The sub-
ject calls loudly for the serious attention of the Legislature, and
of all who are concerned foe the best interests of their country.
	Fuel.--The fuel used by the people is coal, which is wrought in
the parish, and most conveniently situated for the inhabitants. It
is driven by horses or donkeys. Price per ton, 2s. 6d. at the hill.
The donkey carts, of which there are now five so employed in
the parish, are of great service to the people; sixteen carts, some-
times more, are allowed by the proprietor annually to the poor,--
which prove a great benefit to the ordinary poor, and to such as
may be receiving occasional aid from the parochial funds.
	Villages.--There are three villages in the parish, viz. Motherwell,
(in the old charters Moderville,) lying near the well of our Lady,
from which the inhabitants are in part supplied with water. It con-
tains about one-half of the population of the parish. Windmill-
hill is close to the church, and Craigneuk half a-mile to the east.
The intended Wishaw and Coltness railway will intersect this pa-
rish to the extent of three miles.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	Considerable changes have taken place in this parish since the
last Account was published. The populatim has more than


