
                             YARROW.                             39

sometimes covers the Surface, to the exclusion almost of every other
plant; and in fine seasons, between June and July, a whole hill-
side is one entire yellow blow.   Along the banks of the rivers, and
generally at their confluence with the tributary rivulet, there are
low flat promontories of water-worn gravel, which abound with
Tormentilla officinalis, Calluna vulgaris, and different kinds of
lichens.  Another variety of soil is clay, having a strong affinity
to bog, into which it gradually runs, as the subsoil becomes less
porous. This commonly covers the bases of the hills that slope
eastward, * but partakes less of sweet palatable plants than the
light loam already mentioned.  The  bog soil in this parish con-
sists mostly of argillaceous clay, with a mixture of fine sand, and a
little vegetable mould near the surface; the subsoil being uniform-
ty stiff cold argil, sometimes interspersed with stones or round
gravel.  It produces abundance of Carices, Juncus, acutiflorus,
Holcus lanatus, with several of the Poa, Aira, and Festuca tribes.
Since draining has taken place so extensively, these have been in
a great measure supplanted by Cuicus palustris on the mossy
ground, Aira  c(ae)spitosa, Melica c(ae)rulea, and agrostidae on the clay.
And lastly, we have tracts of peat stretching for miles, and vary-
ing  in depth from a few inches to seven feet.   Scirpus c(ae)spitosus,
Juncus squarrosus, Nardus stricta, Eriophorum vaginatum, Calluna
vulgaris, Erica tetralix, Empetrum nigrum, Galium saxatile, and
cos and Rubus chamaemorus only in a few places.
      Zoology.- " Two species of misce have occasionally been met
with, which, as yet, have been overlooked by scientific naturalists.
One inhabits the tops of the highest mountains, and is a little
larger than the Mus sulvaticus.  The far has a silky softness and
lustre; and as the animal is turned round, it falls open by its
weight in a shel along the body, being apparently attached to the
skin by a filament of extraordinary fineness and elasticity.  The
other by of a size between this and the Mus aquaticus; has like
them a short tail and cars; the tail tipped with white.  It has very

<FOOTNOTE>These clay bogs have perhaps been deposited by an eddy of the great western
deluge.  When the current of this remendous debacle beat violently against the face
of a mountain, it seems as if the debris and mud transported by the waters had
settled down along the base of an opposite ridge, or it might have been swept round
into the llee side of that from which it had been washed away.  The soil in question
rests upon masses of till, i.e. collections of gravel somewhat water-worn, and cement-
ed by very tenacious clay; and the bollow parts, where there are springs, are often
covered with some feet of peat moss.


