
                       PARISH OF MORDINGTON.

      PRESBYTERY OF CHIRNSIDE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

           THE REV. GEORGE FULTON KNIGHT, A. M. MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Boundaries, Extent, &c.-THIS parish is situated in the south-
east corner of the county of Berwick. It is bounded on the north
by the parish of Ayton; on the east, by the German Ocean, and
the liberties of the town of Berwick on Tweed; on the south, by
the river Whitadder; and on the west, by the parishes of Hutton
and Foulden. Its form is irregular, somewhat resembling a sand-
glass, or the letter g,-on the narrow part of which stand the church
and manse; the parish is there only the breadth of the glebe. Its
length from north to south is between 3 and 4 miles; its great-
est breadth, which is towards the northern extremity, is above
2 miles. Its original extent was very small, consisting only of
the barony of Mordington and the estate of Edrington, till the year
1650, when the lands of Lamberton (of much greater extent than
the whole of what, before that period, constituted the parish) were
disjoined from the parish of Ayton, and annexed to Mordington.
In the year 1666, Mordington was disjoined from part of what is
now the parish of Longformacus,-when the latter, together with
other lands from surrounding parishes, was erected into a new
parish.
   Topographical Appearances.-The north part of the parish con-
sists of high ground, containing many commanding eminences,-from
which is obtained an extensive and splendid prospect of the Merse
of Berwickshire, and the wooded and picturesque banks of the
Tweed, Whitadder, and Blackadder, together with a considerable
part of the county of Northumberland,-while the view is terminated
on the south by the bold and lofty range of Cheviot; and on the
west, by Ruberslaw, the Eildons, and the Lammermuirs. Toward
the east, this highest part of the parish commands a view of the Ger-
man Ocean, Holy Island, Bamborough Castle, &c. At the extreme
north-west of this high ground, there are the remains of a camp
   BERWICK.                        Y


