
BURNTISLAND.                                421

their due proportion of seats, taking the whole burden, not only of
building but also of repairing on themselves. The reared, ac-
cordingly, a substantial square edifice, surmounted by a tower, the
height of whi ' ch is not proportioned to its thickness; but want of
funds is understood to have prevented it from lifting its head so
high as was contemplated. Though situated on the boundary of
the parish, and distant about three miles from its northern ex-
tremities, the church is perfectly convenient for the great mass of
the population. It is at present in a good state of repair, and af-
fords accommodation for 900 or upwards, but might easily be
made to accommodate a hundred or two more, as the area is very
uneconomically seated. In the former Account.. it is stated as a
fact well known in this place, that it once held within its walls
between 3000 and 4000 Hessians, who were lying encamped near
the town in 1746.
The manse was built in 1824, and is considered one of the best
in Scotland. The glebe consists of 5 Scots acres, and is let at a
yearly rent of L. 35. There is no grass glebe, but the sum of
L. 15 Sterling is allowed in lieu of it. The stipend is mostly
payable in money, and amounts to about L. 190.
There is a chapel in the parish in connection with the United
Secession Synod. The minister is paid out of the seat rents, and
his A ipend is Understood to be L. 100. An assistant and succes-
sor is about to be appointed, when it is proposed that the former
shall receive L. 60, and the latter L. 80. A house belonging to
the congregation forms part of the living of the minister.
Taking 500 as the number of families, about 330 of these be
long to the Established Church,, and the rest, with very few ex-
ceptions, to the United Secession. A very small number are
connected with no religious denomination, and there are three or
four Roman Catholics. Divine service is respectably attended both.
at the parish church, an& at the dissenting meetinghouse ; at both
it might be--better. The average number of communicants at the
Established Church is about 400. In connection with the congre-
gation of the parish church, there is a society in support of the
missions, &c. of the Church of Scotland. As it is but of recent
origin, it would be premature to conjecture the amount of its an-
nual contributions. The collections at the parish church for re-
ligious and charitable purposes may be stated as,averag' ing for some
years between L. 20 and L. 30 per annum. This is exclusive of
the ordinary collection-, for the poor, which amount in the year to


