
                          PARISH OF RAYNE.

             PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                THE REV. ALEXANDER CUSHNY, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name Rayne was sometimes written Raine in
the records of the seventeenth century, but more frequently Rain,
the orthography which is still retained in Old Rain, the post-town.
It was probably derived from a Gaelic word of similar sound, Raon,
signifying a field of good ground, a term sufficiently appropriate
to this parish, which consists of open and continuous fields gene-
rally of good soil, and under productive tillage.
   Extent, &c.-This is a landward parish, of moderate extent and
compact form, being about 3 1/3 miles in each direction, and contain-
ing 11 square miles.  Its figure is not perfectly regular, but approach-
ing to a square: it is bounded on the south side by the parish of
Oyne, and divided from it by the water of Ury; on the west, by
that of Culsamond; on the east, by parts of Daviot, and Chapel
of Garioch; and on the north, by parts of Fyvie and Auchter-
less. It forms the northern boundary of an inland district
of Aberdeenshire called the Garioch, which is divided from
that of Formartine, by the hill of Rothmaise in Rayne, of this
850 feet above the level of the sea.  With the exception of this
hill, the parish consists of undulating fields, and gentle acclivi-
ties, with a long tract of peat-moss or bog, towards the north
reaching from the west boundary to the east, where Daviot be-
gins.
   Climate, &c.-The temperature is of a moderate range, and
on the whole remarkably equal, the mean height of thermo-
meter being in 1837.

<TABLE>
                              Morning.        Evening.
       For January,             33&deg;. 2         33&deg;. 8
           July,	            57  . 0         56  .13         Fahrenheit.
           December,	      38  .23         38  .61

The atmosphere is comparatively dry, from the circumstance of


