
		      KILMADOCK.                             1227

   Connected with the parish by birth are, the Rev. John Row of
Row, and the Rev. Alexander Fletcher of London.
   Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, the Earl of Moray,
who has one-third of the valued rent and upwards; Henry Home
Drummond, Esq., M. P. of Blair-Drummond;  John Buro Mur-
doch, Esq. of Gartincaber; Andrew Jardine, Esq. of Lanrick
nephew to the late W. Jardine, Esq., M. P.; Major Buchanan
of Cambusmore; Captain Graham of Coldoch; Archibald Stir                
ling, Esq. of Keir; and George Binning Home, Esq. of Ar-
gaty, &C.
   The estate of Lanrick, formerly the property of Sir Even Mur-
ray Macgregor, passed in 1840 into the hands of William Jardine,
Esq., M. P., partner at Canton of James Matheson, Esq. of
Achany, M. P. The suggestions of Mr Jardine on the subject
of the late war in China are said to have met with due conside-
ration from the British Government. He died in London in Fe-
bruary I843.
   Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers commence in 1623.
They are not voluminous. One volume was destroyed by fire in
the schoolhouse.
   Antiquities.--The principal antiquities are, Doune Castle and
the Bridge of Teith. This castle is thus noticed by Sir Walter
Scott in Waverley: "On the opposite bank of the river, and
partly surrounded by a winding of its stream, stood a large and
massive castle, the half-ruined turrets of wbich were already glit-
tering in the first rays of the sun. It was in form an oblong
square of size sufficient to contain a large court in the centre. The
towers at each angle of the square rose higher than the walls
of the  building, and were in their turn surmounted by turrets
differing in height and irregular in shape. This noble ruin,"
adds Sir Walter in the note, "is dear to my recollection,  from
associations which have been long and painfully broken. It
holds a commanding station on the banks of the river Teith,
and has been one of the largest castles in Scotland. Murdock,
Duke of Albany, the founder of this stately pile, was be-
headed on tbe castle-bill of Stirling, from which he might see
the towers of Doune, the monument of his fallen greatness. In
1745-46, as stated in the text, a garrison on the part of the che-
valier was put into the castle, then less ruinous than at present.
It was commanded by Mr Stewart of Balloch, as governor for


