
94			BUTESHIRE.

what it was at the time when the former Statiscal Account was
written, we cannot fail to perceive that its state has greatly im-
proved.  The superior means of communication which it now1 en-
joys, have afforded it great advantages.  At the period above-men-
tioned, all ordinary intecourse with the mainland was maintained
by ferry-boat, plying once a-week from Scoulag; or a packet
sailing twice a-week from Rethesay to the village of Largs, on the
opposite coast.* Now, the introduction of steam-sailing affords
daily a speedy and cheap mode of conveyance for passengers and
goods, to all ports of the Clyde; and thence to all parts of
the kingdom. The change in the food of the people indicates a
material increase of comfort in their circumstances. Herrings,
which formerly were the chief maintenance of the greater number
of the inhabitants during three-fourths of the year, + have ceased
to be with any an important article of subsistence. Animal food
has become general; and it has become common for cottagers to
rear pigs and poultry for their own use. A corresponding improve-
ment is observable in fuel. It will astonish a farmer, who is ac-
customed to make the price of an acre of turnip pay for a year's
supply of coals for his family, to learn, that fifty years ago, "the
farmers being employed the most part of the summer in casting
and leading peats, could not provide manure for their farms."++
The difference in remarkable betwixt the habits and pursuits of
the young men of the present day, and those of the race that pre-
ceded them. At the period we have been referring to, few far-
mers' sons were bred to farming; all the young men in the paris
were engaged in the herring-fishery; their highest ambition was
to become masters of berring-busses; and when they were not
employed in their other kind of work.& Their successors, at pre-
sent, furnish only fifteen persons for the herring-fishery; are strong-
ly attached to agriculture, one at least of every farmer's sons ge-
nerally adopting his father's occupation; are ready, when disen-
gaged from their more ordinary employment, to put their hand to
any needful work; and in many cases, direct their aim successful-
ly to the counting-room, or the learned professions. The im-
provements in agriculture, which have been so great throughout
the country, within the space of time under our review, have made
their benefits to be especially felt in this parish. The appearance

<FOOTNOTE>Old Statistical Accounts.      + Ibid.      ++ Ibid.      SS Ibid.

                                         3


