
150                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

cover our hills, and, to improve the carcase, some of the store-
farmers who have low lands and sown grass, encourage a mixed
breed from a Cheviot ewe with a Leicestershire ram. Even in
1798, there were only two thrashing-machines in the parish; now
every farmer has one. Lands on the side of the hills which have
not been ploughed for nearly a century, and others which have no
vestige of having ever been ploughed, have been broken up and
sown down with artificial grasses. The rental which in 1798 was
only L. 1900, is now nearly L. 4000 per annum. A more liberal
education may now received at our public school; and hence a
number of young men have of late years gone to prosectte their
studies at the universities, with a view to the learned professions.
With these advantages we may be supposed to enjoy much hap-
piness in our sequestered retreat, far from the bustle and confu-
sion of towns or crowded thoroughfares; and certainly we do, or
at least should do so, if we were duly aware of the blessings we
enjoy, and did properly appreciate and improve them. Among
the disadvantages to which this parish is liable, some complain
of the distance from markets for the disposal of our produce, espe-
cially of heavy articles; but this is partly remedied in one import-
ant respect, and that is, in regard to bacon, the staple commodi-
ty of this district. Mr Hamilton, a respectable and extensive
farmer in this parish, and possessed of capital, who last year sup-
ported a company in the parish of Johnstone for curing bacon, has
this year found it convenient to salt a large proportion at his own
house; which is also a great convenience, especially to the poor,
who have no horses to carry it to a distance. He has already
laid out L. 1000 in purchasing 300 carcases, weighing in whole
4000 imperial stones. We may also mention, that though we have
several plantations and clumps of trees, yet there is still a great
deficiency on the higher ridges, where they would improve the
climate, and prove a shelter as well as a great ornament to the dis-
tribt.

	Revised by the Writer, February 1834.


