
     Statistical Account

about 620:  Horses 155; of which, within these 12 years,
the breed is mightily improved*.

   Population.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the po-
pulation in 1755, was 885.  From a pretty accurate account
lately taken of the number of inhabitants, it appears to a-
mount to 698, young and old.  The average number of
births, for the last 10 years, being 180: of marriages 50:
of deaths 100.  There is not the smallest doubt that the po-
pulation of this parish, was much greater about 50 years ago,
than it is now.  The many vestiges of demolished farm-
houses to be seen in different places, and the reports of old
men, afford sufficient proofs of depopulation.  At a medium
calculation, there are 100 families fewer now, than former-
ly; so that reckoning at the rate of 6 to a family, makes the
number of inhabitants to have decreased from that period, no
less than 600+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*For some years past, the prices of labour and provisions have been gradual-
ly increasing.  The wage of an artist have risen from 15 d. to 18 d. and 22 d.
and of a common labourer from 15. to 15 d. and 18 d. a-day.  A sheep, which
formerly might have been bought for 10 s. now brings 16 s. and 20 s.  A lamb
cannot now be purchased for much below the old price of a sheep.  Butter has
advanced from 6 d. to 9 d. and 11 d. the pound:  And all other articles in pro-
portion.  The cause of this rise is easy to be assigned, from the rapid increase
of luxury; the different mode of living introduced into every rank; the great
demand for hands to be employed in the various branches of manufactures; and,
or course, the vast influx of people from the country to the great towns, where
they immediately find work and good encouragement, which necessarily creates
and increasing demand, and a ready market for every article of life.
+The reasons for this, may be here assigned.  About the time above men-
tioned, some gentlemen of very considerable propertly in the parish, adopted the
idea of grazing, as being better suited to the soil than ploughing, because, from
the lightness of it, it naturally runs into grass:  In consequence, whole baronies
and large tracks of land, formerly planted thick with families, were thrown
waste, to make way for this new mode of management; and numbers of these


