
                              TOUGH.                              619

be made by knitting worsted stockings, at which they labour with
the utmost diligence.  It is of course often requisite to give occa-
sional supplies to persons disabled by sickness or otherwise in cir-
cumstances of temporary distress,  It may not be uninteresting to
state the amount of church collections made at different periods
for thepoor.

In 1722, L.3 13  4, more than the half of which collected at the sacrament.
   1740,   1 12  1. there being no sacrament that year.
   1783,   3 17 10, chiefly at sacrament.  9 poor on the roll.
   1805,   7  1  0, nine poor on the roll.
   1816,  10 13  9,
   1826,  18  4  9, eleven poor on the roll.
   1834,  25  1  7, twelve poor on the roll,
   1835,  28  0  0, twelve do.
   1841,  33  2  0, fifteen do.

   In addition to the collections, there are available for the poor
(after paying the session-clerk's, precentor's, and beadle's salaries,)
the interest of L. 200, made up by a bequest recently left to the
session by the late P. M'Combie, Esq. of Lynturk, and some ac-
cumulations.  It would be, on all hands, looked upon as most de-
grading, were any person capable of otherwise obtaining a liveli-
hood, to apply for aid from these funds.
   No market is held in the parish, but there are several, in the
course of the year, at Alford, Scuttry, Monymusk, and other places
in the vicinity.
   Inn.-There is only one inn, that of Whiteley, which is situated
at a point on the high road, where such an accommodation could
scarcely be dispensed with, and is respectably kept.
   Fuel.-The fuel chleflv used is peat, which has hitherto been
abundant and easily procured; but as the principal supply is from
the common already mentioned, and persons from all quarters have
been at liberty to avail themselves of it, it is likely in a few years
to be much less plentiful.  The peat is made up, in a considerable
degree, of the decayed branches of trees, among which the birch
is the prevailing kind.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   As there is not a single beggar belonging to the population of
this or any of the neighbouring parishes, the prevalence of com-
mion begging, by persons from other quarters, to the extent to which
it was, till lately, carried on, is an evil of which we have good cause
to complain.  The greater number of those engaged in it describe
themselves as belonging to the large, towns, and although, no
doubt many of them. are real objects of charity, in very many in-
stances they are individuals whose dissolute habits have deprived


