
                             NENTHORN.                       219

and the rest vary from L. 1, 10s. to 15s. 6d. The farms are let
on leases of twenty-one years, at fixed rents, usually of L. 400 or
L. 500 each, and in no instance depending on the fiar prices.
   Wages.-The farm-servants occupy houses provided for them
on the farm by their employer, with a small patch of garden-ground
attached to each. They receive their wages, partly in money, de-
signated sheep-money, and partly in oatmeal, barley, pease, and
potatoes. A cow's grass is allowed in summer, and straw for fod-
der in winter. A sufficient quantity of coals also is carried at the
farmer's expense, but the servant pays the original price at the
coal-pit. The annual income of the hind, including all his pri-
vileges, is about L. 25, or, in years when grain is high priced,
L. 30. But, on the other hand, he is obliged at his own cost to
keep a female servant, who is liable to be called for by the farmer
at a busy season, or in cases of emergency, to aid in forwarding
the field-labour. This person has to shear in harvest for the
house-rent; at other times she is paid 10d. a-day when employed.
This species of service is denominated the Bondage, and the indi-
vidual appointed to it the Bondager.
   The hind's privileges are thus specified:-house and yard;
coals driven; cow's grass in summer, and fodder in winter; ton
bolls of oats or oatmeal; ten firlots of barley; four to six firlots of
pease; 1000 to 1500 yards of potato-drill; a peck's sowing of
lint, or L. 1 in lieu; L. 3 to L. 4 of money. Ordinary maid-
servants have L. 5 wages in summer, and L. 2 in winter. Men
engaged at day-labour receive 1s. 8d. per diem.
   Before the harvest sets in, Irish shearers arrive annually in great
numbers, by whom chiefly the crops are cut down. Formerly
hands were obtained from the Highlands of Scotland; but these,
unable to cope with those of the sister island in lowness of wages,
or from some other cause, have disappeared for many years past,
and left the others in undisputed possession. They usually work
for 10s., 12s., and 14s. a-week, with victuals,-the materials of
dinner being invariably, all over the district, a good wheaten loaf
of 16 oz. or 18 oz. weight, and an ordinary-sized bottle of beer.
Ten hours a-day is the specified time for labour.
   Fences and Drains.-There are stone walls around some of the
old grass enclosures, but hedges are almost universally in use.
They are planted with a ditch about three feet deep and five,feet
wide; cost. 3s. per rood, including the temporary paling for protec-
tion; and are never, when properly attended to, suffered to grow


