
                    382                                  ARGYLESHIRE.

                     Turtle dove       White throat        Eitterduck     Starling.*
                        Three species of serpents occur in the parish, viz. the ringed.
                     snake, destitute Of poisonous fangs; the Coluber berus, adder or
                     viper, extremely venomous, and sometimes more than two feet in
                     length ; and the Anguis fragilis, commonly known as the slow
                     worm, but apparently harmless.
                        The most destructive and pernicious reptile to young corn, after
                     it begins to germinate, is the grubworm, generated by cockchaf-
                     fers, particularly after clover lea and a moist spring. Several ex-
                     pedients have been attempted to extirpate them, but hitherto with-
                     out effect. In some seasons, they commit such ravages as to com-
                     pel those who suffer most from their depredations to plough up
                     fields that have been sown with bear or oats, and substitute pota.
                     toes instead of a culmiferous crop, which disarranges their ordinary
                     rotations.
                       Ichthyology.-A considerable variety of trouts abound in
                     all the moor lakes, but they furnish no species which are of any
                     importance in an economical point of view. Neither charr, pike,
                     nor perch, are to be found in any of the Kintyre lochs, rivers, or
                     streams. But the sea along the west coast furnishes a great va.
                     riety of nutritive fish, such as red rock cod of the largest size, li 91
                     tusk, skate, plaice, lythe or white pollock, haddocks, whitings
                     mackerel, seath, coal fish, conger eels, and, to all appearance,
                     turbot and soles, were the people acquainted with the particular
                     banks which they frequent, and the proper mode of fishing for
                     them. Shoals of herring are occasionally observed in the months
                     of July and August, passing to the south, pursued by aquatic birds,
                     whales, porpoises, and the all-devouring cod. The natives of the
                     parish never engage in the heriring-fishing, and allege as an exeuse
                     that the currents are too strong and rapid for nets to remain steady.
                     It must however, be acknowledged,that they are very unskilful
                     fishermen; and that the great impediment against prosecuting
                     fisheri,es with any prospect of success, is the poverty of the inha-
                     bitants, and want of capital to commence the lucrative business.
                       Occasionally migr`ting to the Western Isles.
                     The nocturnal goatsucker does not occur on the west side of Kintyre, but Plen-
                     tifully on the east.  The bittern, which old people remember as common forty years
                     ago, has utterly forsaken the parish ; a proof that marshy land has been well-drained.
                     Within the last three years, a few detached quails have been seen in autumn, proba-
                     bly migrating to a milder elimate. The pheasant, which was introduced to the woods
                     at Laigie by the late proprietor, promises to multiply.  After a few years trial, the
                     pheasant is not multiplying. It is supposed that its eggs are destroyed by black game
                     and vermin.


