
280                   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

plied are, 1st, the interest of about L.800 = L.20; 2d, annual
collection in church, about L.18, 3d, annual donation from the
Honourable Colonel Macadam Cathcart, L.15. The L.800 is
the amount of legacies left at different times, including the L.500
left by Mr M'Adam.
	Fuel.--There are no coals in the parish; but they are obtained
from coal-pits at Dalmellington, about eleven miles distant. Peats
are more or less used by all the families in the parish.

	Drawn up 1839,
	Revised 1844.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONN.
	There can be no doubt that cultivation might be considerably
extended, and if the mining operations succeed, as they now pro-
mise to do, it is probable that a great change, and much improve-
ment will be made upon the parish in a short time. Nothing has
yet been done in the way of purifying the lead. The ore which
has been extracted, lies in the state in which it was dug out; but
preparations are beginning to be made for washing and purifying
it, and it is presumed that no expense will be spared in carrying
on the operations on the most approved plans. There is abun-
dance of coal and lime upon the estates of the proprietor on the
ayshire side, and it is, hoped that an exchange favourable to Cars-
phairn may be made.
	Since the preceding pages were written, in 1839, Carsphairn has
undergone a wonderful change, chiefly on account of the mining
operations carried on within the parish. Since the operations
commenced, the population has been nearly doubled. In that part
of the parish in which lead was discovered, and in the bosom of a
remote mountain, where the silence of nature was seldom broken,
unless by the barking of the shepherd's dog, or the call of the
shepherd, there is now a scene of industry and activity, which re-
quires to be witnessed in order to be understood; and which can-
not be contempted without astonishment.
	The proprietor of the mine, the Honourable Colonel M'Adam
Cathcart, has spared no expense in obtaining all the necessary ap-
paratus for crushing, washing, and smelting, on the most approved
principles. The wheel used for moving the crushing apparatus is
about 30 feet in diameter, driven by water obtained from the
neigbbouring moutitains. The smelting furnaces are constructed
on the most approved plans and large houses have been built, and


