
60                   KINILOSS-SHIRE.

tury. This tree was noted for sheltering the Master of Burleigh
when concealing himself from justice. In 1707, Robert, only son
of the fourth Lord Burleigh, learning that Mr Henry Stenhouse,
the schoolmaster of Inverkeithing, had married a girl, (for whom
he, young Burleigh, bad an attachment, and on account of which
he had been sent abroad to travel,) and taken her from her father's
house in his absence, on his return, went directly to the school-
master's house, and shot him through the left shoulder at his own
door, in consequence of which Stenhouse died twelve days after.
Mr Balfour was apprehended some time afterward, tried 4th Au-
gust 1709, and sentenced 29th November to be beheaded. He,
however, escaped from prison the Ist or 2d of January 1710, by
exchanging clothes with his sister, and concealing himself suc-
cessfully for some years. The hollow of the old ash was often
the place of his retreat, and hence received the appellation of
Burleigh's Hole. He afterwards engaged in the Rebellion of 1715,
and was attainted. This tree was dismantled of its top by the
high winds, during the winter 1808-9; and was completely blown
down to within a few feet of the root on Old Handsel- Monday 1822.
It stood about twenty feet distant from the west wall of the great
tower.
   Upon the top of the branch of the Ochils which bounds the
parish on the north, stands Cairn-a-vain, once an immense col-
lection of stones, though now much reduced in size,-the pro-
prietor, thirty years since, having carried away many hundred
cart-loads for the purpose of building dikes. An old rhyme, still
remembered, alluded to a treasure supposed to be contained in it,-

                In the Dryburn well, beneath a stane,
                You'II find the key of Cairn-a-vain,
                That will mak'a 8cotland rich ane by ane.

However, no treasure was found, although eagerly expected by
the workmen. There was a rude stone coffin in the centre of the
cairn, containing an urn full of bones and charcoal, and amongst
these was found a small ornament of bone about four inches long,
very much resembling the figure of a-cricket-bat and notched in
the edges; this was in much better preservation than the other
bones. Clay urns full of burnt bones have also been found on
the farm of Holeton, and in other places along the skirts of the
Ochil hills.

                      III.-POPULATION.

   In 1755, the population amounted to 1891 persons; and in

<FOOTNOTE>Maolaunin's Criminal Trials; and Douglas' Peerage of Scotland.
                                    3


