
                   MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                     735

   the Earl de Warenne.   Our old historians inform us, that this
   lady having, with many others, been guilty of treasonable, practices
   against King Robert I., was, by the Black Parliament held at
   scone, August 1320, condemned to perpetual imprisonment; * and
   it has been conjectured, not without probability, that the dungeon-
   keep on Tom-a-chastel was the scene of her durance and miserable
   death.  The tradition of the country favours this supposition; and
   remains lately found among the ruins on the 11 Castle hill" seem
   to corroborate it.  A native of the parish, who lately died at the,
   age of eighty, informed the writer that, with a view to discover if
   the ruins of the "Earl's Castle" still concealed any relies of for-
   mer days, lie proceeded, about the beginning of this century, to
   explore an excavation regarded as the dungeon; and after digging
   to a considerable depth, there discovered fragments of jars and
   pieces of metal, which appeared to have undergone the action of
   fire.
      In 1831, when preparations were making for the erection of
   Sir David Baird's monument on the site of the old castle, the
   workmen discovered the remains of an extensive edifice intermixed,
   with a blackish mould, in which human bones frequently occurred,
   with stirrups, buckles, and other decayed fragments of ancient ar-
   mour.  In the old dungeon-keep were found a quantity of black
   earth, apparently the debris of animal matter, a bracelet, a consi-
   derable portion of charcoal, and some human bones.  When the
   traditions of the district are viewed in connection with these facts,
   it appears probable that Tom-a-chastel Was not only the scene
   where the Earls of Strathearn-dwelt in the season of their prospe-
   rity and power, but also the spot where the last of their race, the
   noble but worthless Joanna, the wife of De Warenne, expiated
   her treacherous practices against her king and country, and ended
   her unhappy days amid the burning ruins of the castle of her
   ancestors.
      The old church of Monivaird, on the site of which now stands
   the Mausoleum of the family of Ochtertyre, was, in 1511, during
   the reign of James IV., the scene of a bloody tragedy of the feu-
   dal times, in which the clans of the Murrays and the Drummonds
   were the actors.  A fetd having obtained between these two clans,
   a party of the Murrays proceeded to exact tithes and carry off
   spoil from the neighbouring lands of the Drummonds; and having
   defeated their enemies at Cnoc-Mary, in the parish of Muthil,

   <FOOTNOTE>See Hailes's Annals, Vol, - p. 95; and Miss Porter's Chiefs.


