
6                BANFFSHIRE.

piece of rising ground, the granite comes to the surface. In one
part of the bed, the granite is excellent; but in other parts, at the
same point, it passes into secondary granite, or syenite, in which
the quartz is either entirely wanting, or only found in very small
quantities. The felspar is white and small-grained, and appears
quite free from iron or any other colouring matter. Hence it retains
its beautiful white colour, without being changed by the action
of the atmosphere; and, on that account, has been much
esteemed for building.
   This rock passes into gneiss and coarse mica-slate, which appears
at different points a little to the eastward, but which has
never been employed for any useful purpose.
   Various beds of sand, shingle, and clay, of different depths at
different points, cover these strata; but none of them appear
worthy of any remark, unless in so far as regards a bed of lias clay,
which is found in patches at different points within the parish.
This bed is of very considerable extent, stretching over a surface
of more than twenty square miles. Belemnites and ammonites
are found in it at all places where it has been wrought. It has
long been wrought at Blackpots, a little to the westward of the
boundary of this parish, for bricks and tiles, and also within the
parish adjacent to the town, for the same purposes; and the be-
lemnite and ammonite have been found there in great abundance,
as well as various other shells peculiar to that formation.
There are no hornblende rocks in situ within the parish, but
there is abundance of rolled blocks of that mineral scattered over
the surface, as well as f hypersthene and augite. Rolled blocks of
granite, having the felspar red, are also found. Porphyritic hornstone
in water-worn nodules is also found on the moors and along
the sea-beacb.
  Alluvial deposits are very scanty, being mostly confined to a
few patches along the line of the Doveran.
   The soils are extremely varied, partaking in some measure of
the nature of the rocks on which they severally repose; being, on
the slate rock, of a clayey and soft nature, and very fertile.
   Meteorology-The climate is singularly changeable and capricious.
At no time can a continuance of any particular sort of
weather be in the leastdepended on. Winter is often comparatively
warm, and summer cold. in 1831, the difference between
the the ratum on the 24th June at half-past eight at night,
and, the IIth December at the same hour, was only 5&deg;. In



