
                             TOWIE.                             419

garf, Glenbucket, and Ardonald lime-works near Keith.  Moss
is obtained only from the hills adjoining the Cabrach, and the dis-
tance proves a serious drawback on agricultural improvement.
   Rate of Wages.-The wages of ploughmen per the half year,
exclusive of board and lodging, are from  L.5 to L.7; women ser-
vants from L.2 to L.3; labourers 1s. per day with victuals.
   Mills.-There are two meal-mills, one barley-mill, one flax-mill,
one potato-farina-mill, one saw-mill.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The turnpike road from Aberdeen
passes through the parish on the north side, and the old country
road from Aberdeen passes from east to west on the south side.
There are about two miles of turnpike roads, and about ten of com-
mutation roads.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, thougb not exactly centri-
cal, is as nearly so as the locality admits of: it is situate on the
south or right bank of the river.  The manse is situated near the
top of an acclivity of about sixty feet, at the bottom of which, and
between it and the river, was a small haugh, part of the glebe land,
about fourteen yards wide, and six feet higher than low water.  This
haugh was almost entirely carried away by a late flood.  The glebe,
previous to this flood, contained about four acres, and was worth
L.8.  The manse was built in 1819, and consists of three stories,
and is pretty commodious.
   The stipend, including allowance for communion elements, is
L.132, 8s. 7d. Sterling, in money, and 26 bolls, 1 stone, 10 1/2 lbs.
meal, and 7 quarters 1 peck of bear.
   The whole parishioners belong to the Established Church, with
the exception of two families of Roman Catholics.  The average
number of communicants is 462.
   Education.-There is only one school in the parish, namely,
the parochial school.  The teacher has the legal extent of garden
ground; a house of four rooms, including the kitchen, and a spa-
cious school-room attached; and a.salary of L. 28 Sterling.  The
branches of education usually taught by him are, Latin Engiish
reading and grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, mathe-
matics, and geography.  The amount of school-fees is about L.20.
The teacher is entitled to the Dick bequest, and has hitherto rank-
ed above the average allolwance from that fund.
   Literature.-A public library was instituted here by voluntary
subscription in 1827, and consists of upwards of 500 Volumes in
history, religion, science, and general literature.


