
50                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

longs to the, Earl of Kintore; but the custom or duty belongs to
another.
   Inns and Alehouses.-In this parish, there is not one inn, ale-
house, or tippling-house of any description; and long may these
poisonous pests of society be kept at a distance from Garvock!
Upwards of forty years ago, an attempt was made to introduce this
nuisance among the quiet and well disposed people of this parish;
but such were their temperate habits and good sense, that, after
foolishly persevering to pay his license for a few years, the man
was obliged to give it up, without making his plack a babee, as he
candidly acknowledged.
   Fuel.-For fuel, the people here depend principally on coals,
which they procure at the ports of Gourdon, Jobnsbaven, or Mon-
trose, at from 1s. to 1s. 2d. per barrel of 9 stones, small coal; and
at 10s. per boll of 72 stones, great coal; to which the expense of
carriage is to be added. Turf cut on the hill, peats and sods cut
in what moss yet remains, form a considerable part still of the la-
bourer's fuel. The tenants on Lord Kintore's property have a
right to cut peats and turfs on a certain part of the Grampians,
but the distance is almost equal to a prohibition.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the time of the former Statistical Account, few parishes have
made such marked progress in improvement. Indeed, the face of
the parish, since that time, has been quite changed, by the great
extent of waste ground which has been reclaimed, and by the good
roads which have been made, intersecting the parish in different
directions. Much certainly has been done in both these respects,
within the last forty years; but much still remains to be done. In
many parts of the parish, a want of roads is still much felt, and
much more waste ground may yet be profitably reclaimed. In
fact, little waste ground is to be met with any where else, where the
plough can draw such a deep and strong furrow, and where such
plenty of excellent material for draining is to be found. The in-
dustrious tenants in Garvock want only proper encouragement and
moderate aid frorn their proprietors; and what they have already
done is a pledge that their activity, exertion, and enterprize would
soon repay the assistance afforded them.
   The chief obstacles to improvement still remaining are, want of
enclosure, with open drains, plantations for shelter as well as or-
nament and sufficient and substantial farm-buildings. If the pro-
prietors would lend their helping hand to remove these obstacles,


