

       934                      FIFESHIRE.

       risk; John Balfour, Esq. of Balbirnie; Mrs Jamieson of Drums;
       Captain Aytoun of Purin; Geo. Wm. Hope, Esq. of Rankeillour.

                          <TABLE>III.-POPULATION.
                   Amount of population in 1801,    .     .	2211
          	                           1811,    .     . 	2317
               	                           1821,    .     .	2459
                                           1801,    .     .     2658
                                           1841,    .     .	2885

         The number of persons that live in towns or villages is perhaps
       2250,-the remainder of course live in the country.
                               IV.-INDUSTRY.
         Agriculture.-

       Number of acres in the parish either cultivated or occasionally in tillage,	8000
                                     occasionally waste,	.       .      .        2000
                                     that might be cultivated with a profitable outlay
        	                         of capital, about	.       .      .        1000
        	                     in undivided common,	.       .      .          10
        	                     under wood,	.       .       .      .         400

         In no parish in Fife has agriculture made greater advances
       within the last twenty-five years, than in Falkland.  The face of
       the country has entirely changed, and places comparatively waste
       have been converted into large and beautiful farms.  The present
       valuable and extensive farm of Falklandwood was then a marsh.
       The proprietors of Falkland have been the chief authors of these
       improvements.  Twenty-five years ago, the large estates in the pa-
       rish, of which Mr Tyndall Bruce is now the proprietor, had been
       long in the market, and therefore no attempt had been made to de-
       velope their resources by a great outlay of capital.  When the late
       Mr Bruce, however, came into the possession of the estates, he
       granted improving leases of twenty-one years' duration; built farm-
       steadings upon an extensive and liberal scale; constructed road;
       and assisted the tenantry in liming, draining, and making enclo-
       sures.  While these important changes were proceeding on the
       low lands, the Lomond Hills, a large commonty of 2000 acres,
       were divided amongst the towns-people and heritors.  While undi-
       vided, no improvement could be made upon them, so that they
       remained from one generation -to another without plantation or
       enclosures.  But immediately upon the division taking place, the
       large heritors, Mr Bruce of Falkland, Mr Johnstone of Lathrisk,
       and Mr Balfour of Balbirnie, proceeded to subdivide their re-
       spective portions, which had the effect of greatly improving the
       appearance of the country and raising the value of the land.  To
       give some idea of the improvements made by Mr Bruce upon se-
                                3

