
418                          AYRSHIRE.

able as timber, but a large portion is coppice or brush-wood. Till
comparatively a late date, there does not seem to have been much
planted in the parish. About nineteen years ago, however, seve-
ral considerable bdlts and clumps of plantation were laid down by
John Donaldson, Esq. of Auchairne, around his house and on
other parts of his property, which have thriven uncommonly well,
and fully prove that although on the coast, or where there is much
exposure to the western wind, wood may not thrive, yet neither
the soil nor the climate is unfavourable to its growth in a different
situation. Other proprietors have also planted more or less; and
last season the Earl of Orkney, who lately became a proprietor in the
parish, laid down very extensive plantations both in Glen App,
and on the ridge to the north of the glen, most of which will pro-
bably thrive as well as those laid down nineteen years ago. And
nineteen years hence, the face of the country may be as well co-
vered with wood, as lately it appeared the reverse. The number
of acres under wood, natural or planted, may now be fairly stated
at 370.
	             II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.--It appears from the act of Parliament, authorizing
the removal of the church, that the town of Ballantrae was erect-
ed into a burgh of barony before 1617. Respecting the old Cas-
tle of Ardstinchar, (the seat of a branch of the Bargany family,)
and the state of society in the district of Carrick when it was inha-
bited, amusing and interesting information will be found in Pit-
cairn's History of the House of Kennedy.
	Land-ovners.--The landed property in the parish is divided
among thirteen proprietors, two of whom are noblemen. The small-
est of these proprietors has a yearly rental greatly above L. 50.
Only one of them resides in the parish during, the whole year, but
several reside in it during a part of the summer and autumn.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers do not reach far-
ther back than 1744, and contain only marriages and baptisms.
They are not in a good state of preservation till near the end of
the century; since then they have been kept with greater accuracy
and care, though still there is no register of the deaths.

	              III.--POPULATION.
	The total population of the parish in 1831 was 1506. These
are comprehended in about 290 families, giving rather more than
five persons to each family on an average. Of these families, about
108 are resident in the village of Ballantrae, making a population


