
96			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

cursions from recesses of the mountains on the north and north-
east. At a small distance from this fort, stood a venerable tree,
which, a considerable number of years ago, was overthrown and
uprooted by a tremendous gust of wind, and which, according to
the tradition of the country, was for generations known by the
name of the Judgment Thorn; and at about a mile south of this
seat of Judgment, is a field still distinguished by the name of Gal-
liflat, or Gallow's Flat, where it is said, judgment was carried into
execution; and about 300 yards south from the old castle, and on
a rising ground, is the vestige of a small station or camp, called
Watchman Knowe.
	In the beginning of last century, there was a boat cut out of
one solid piece of wood, in the form of an Indian canoe, dug out of
the bottom of a moss not far from the old castle,--a proof that,
at one time, it must have been a loch. A short time after this,
there was dug out of the same moss a small copper camp-kettle;
and in the year 1728, a fine copper cast tea-pot stroop, quite
entire. It is said also, that not long ago a large massy piece of pure
solid gold, in the form of a circle or ring, such as is used on the
handle of a sword, for ornament or defence for the hand, was
found by a man casting turf, who sold it for one guinea, and that
it was sold again for upwards of twenty guineas. Near this same
place, stood two lofty columns or pillars of hewn stone, and about
a mile south of these, stood another of the same description,--both,
probably, memorials of the brave who had fall in battle. Another
cross or column stood a little to the west of the church,--said to
have been originally surrounded by a large circle of coarse blocks
of stone, at equal and regular distances, and which were gradually
removed in the progress of improvement. This column must
have been British,--probably a Druidical fane. These columns,
about fifty years ago, were very improperly allowed to be removed
and carried off from the parish by a gentleman, who then sought
to signalize himself as an antiquarian, though he seems not to have
known or reflected, that monuments of antiquity lose all their value
by removal from the place where they have long stood, and were
originally erected.
	In this parish I have seen two or three tumuli, which, some
years ago, were removed to make or repair roads, by persons who
were incompetent either to examine the contents, or to give an ac-
count of what was discovered. They could only report that in
the centre, were found a few flag-stones set together, but nothing


