
                                    KILBIRNIE.                      697

Veronica scutellata          Sambucus ebulus		 Tormentilla reptans
Parietaria officinalis       Allium ursinum		 Thalictrum flavum
Anchusa sempervirens         Epilobium angustifolium   Ranunculus hederaceus
Convolvulus sepium           Vaccinium vitis idaea             lingna
Campanula trachelium         Adoxa mosechattellina     Geranium pratence
Solanum Dulcamara            Saxifraga granulata       Hypericum humifusum
Ligustrum meum		     	       hypnoides	 	   hirsutum
Sison verticillatum          Sedum telehium                       pulchrum
Chaerophyllum odorata        Prunus padus              Inula helenium
Imperatoria aestruthium	            cerasus

	The Conium maculatum, hemlock, generally so plentiful, is not
known in this parish, except in one spot near the ruins of Kilbirnie
House. The Malvaceae seem to be entire strangers; only one spe-
cimen, the Malva moschata, having been found which could not
be reckoned indigenous. The Ulex Europaeus, furze, was not
known until a few years ago, when it was sown for a fence.
	Plantations.--With the exception of about twenty acres planted
by the late Mr Cochran of Ladyland, some thirty years ago, and
eleven acres on the estate of Kilbirnie, along the margin of the
loch, in 1807, there has been nothing done in this respect, within
the remembrance of any one, worth noticing. A few thin strag-
gling belts and detached rows of trees, consisting chiefly of ashes,
elms, and planes, spreading out in different directions from the
ruins of Kilbirnie House, are all that now remains of the noble
sylvan embellishments of the parks and pleasure-grounds of this
ancient seat of the Crawfurds. There are still a few fine old
trees around the site of the ancient house of Ladyland; and the
modern plantations on that estate, consisting, in a great measure,
of chestnuts, planes and firs, are thriving in the very best style. A
few farm-houses too, are partially sheltered by immemorial ashes
and planes; but by far the greater part of them are marked by a
scantiness akin to absolute destitution of such beneficial and orna-
mental accompaniments. There is thus a great deficiency both
of old woodlands and modern plantations troughout the parish--
there being only about seventy-eight acres in all; a deficiency that
will not probably be fully remedied until the principal estate can
claim a resident proprietor.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	There is nothing in the history of the parish that can, be stated
apart from that of the more ancient families by whom it has, been
possessed. The few memorabilia of unchronicled conflict refera-
ble to a period antecedent to the introduction of Christianity, such
as tumuli or cairns, have been all, with one doubtful exeption,
removed within the present century.  During the long reign of


