
                             GAMRIE.                        285

   try with much approbation, both at home and abroad, as officers
   in the army. The Barclays de Tolly, one of whom figured in the
   last war, had their seat in old times at Cullen, in this parish,
   and their burial-place within the church, where there still re-
   mains a Latin inscription, in old characters, recording their name
   and interment.
      Modern Buildings.-The mansion-house of Troup, which was
   built principally for a sea-view, about seventy years ago, seems at
   a distance as having rather a bare appearance, from want of wood
   on the south and east sides; but this appearance gradually wears
   off in approaching, and when the approach is made, the situation
   is found to have been well chosen. The ground rises to such a
   distance in front, towards the south, that wood in that quarter,
   more or less, would impose a look of confinement and closeness on
   the whole scenery:-while the opening to the east leaves to the
   windows in that part of the house, a splendid prospect of the gi-
   gantic rocks of Pennon, which, when seen in a mild evening, gild-
   ed by the setting sun, and relieved on the one side bv the smooth
   blue ocean; and on the other, by the various shades of green, in
   the highly cultivated fields, knolls, brakes, and gulleys, presents
   a scene of natural grandeur seldom equalled.
   In the close vicinity of the house, there are. two beautiful ra-
   vines, meeting at right angles, and nearly half surrouding it, the one
   on the west and the other on the north. The latter, after passing
   the house, rises with a gentle acclivity, leaving-a fine southern ex-
   posure for garden and pleasure-ground. As these glens were
   tastefully laid out with walks, and planted some thirty or forty
   years ago, they are now smiling in all the beauty which wood and
   water, well trained, can give to a place that would be beautiful
   without either, from its natural position of banks and braes. As
   these woods and vales are little seen in the- approach from the east,
   the effect to a stranger arriving from that quarter is heightened by
   agreeable surprise.
      The house itself has been allowed to go into considerable dis-
   repair during the long minority of the present landlord, as well as
   the sweet Norwegian cottages of the Tore; but when the improve-
   ments on the house, &c. projected by the young and spirited
   proprietor, are carried into execution, it will be exceeded as a ba-
   ronial residence, by few in the north, and hardly by any ; in natu-
   ral beauty of site.


