
              48                                PERTHSHIRE.


                 Citadel on South Inc.-In the year 1651, Cromwell, after he had
              defeated the King's troops in an engagement near Burntisland,
              marched directly to Perth.  He found the gates shut against him. His
              purpose was to besiege it, but, having proposed, honourable terms to
              the citizens,he obtained possession.* In the following year he built

              the night, unlooked for, the water rose so hhgh, that all them that dwelt outwitb the
              castel gavel port in laigh houses, the water increased so, that they behoved to go to
              high houses, for preservation of their lives; and being in high houses, the water rose
              to the loftings in the highest mid houses in the c`rtel-gavel before six bours on Mon-
              day in the morning; and the wind and weet continuing, the water came up to Gil-
              bert Henderson's yett (gate) in the Castel gavel, and to Margaret Monypenny's yett
              in the Fish Market, and to Donald Johnston's yett in the Iligtigate, to the Meal
              Vennel in the South gate, and the water ran like miln-clouses, at the yetts of diverse
              parts on the north side of the High gate.  An great tempestuous wind at the east
              blew all this time. The water also came above Henry Sharp's shop in the Speygate.
              The like fearful inundation of water was never seen in no living man's remembrance,
              which brought the people under such fear, that they looked for nothing but to have
              been destroyed.
                 "Whereupon Mr John Malcolm, minister, powerfully endowed with God's spirit,
              caused ring the preaching bell on Sunday at seven hours of the morning, and the
              haill inhabitants came to the kirk; and there be exhorted them to repent for their
              sins, which had procured the said judgement of God to come upon the town; assur-
              ing them, that if they were truly penitent therefor and would avow to God to amend
              their lives hn time coming, God would avert his judgements, and give them delive-
              rance; whose powerful exhortations moved the people to cry to God with tears,
              clamours, and cries, and to hold up their hands to God to amend their lives, and
              every of them to abstain from their domestic sins.
                "the like humiliation, both of men and women, has not been seen in Perth before
              not since; preaching and praying continued all that week. Our pastor with great
              magnanimity insisted in exhorting the people to true repentance and amendment of
              their lives.
                "The waters began to decrease afternoon on Monday (15th,) but after day light
              past, there arose a greater tempest of wind and rain than at any time before, which
              so affrighted the people that night, that they looked for nothing but the waters should
              have arisen to greater height nor they were before.  Notwithstanding thereof, mi-
              raculously, through the great mercy of God, by (without) all men's expectation, the
              water greatly in the meantime decreased; which in the morning moved the people
              in the kirk, and in all other places, to give most hearty thanks to God for his mercy
              towards them.
               "Mr John Malcolm proved the part of a faithful pastor to his flock with great
              godly courage and magnanimity to comfort them with the mercy of God.
               "Great plenty of corns in all parts, both stacks and stooks, being on haughs and
              valley ground, was carried away by the waters; and divers ships by tempest perish-
              ed, and horn nolt, kye, and sheep were drowned."
               "Cromwell proposed honourable terms, under an apprehension that the town had
              in it a strong militar force prepared to make a vigorous defence.  An ingenious
              device by one of the inhabitants occasioned this apprehension.  He made carts be in.
              cessantly driven through the streets, and drums beat, and a continued and loud bustle
              be kept up, indicating warlike preparations.- Cromwell's terms being honourable to
              thetown, they were accepted, and the gates tbrown open him.  He and his officers
              were conducted by the provost (Andrew Grant of Balbagils, now Murray Hall,) to the
              house of the inhabitant reterred to-MrDavidson,who entertained them After the en-
              tertainment Cromwell asked the Provost how, with such a small force as he now disco-
              vered it to be, he could expect to keep him out of the city? Upon the provost simply
              replying, that they intended to stand out till they heard that the King had come to
              England.  Cromwell smiled at his simplicity, but, knowing that it was Davidson
              who had deceived him, observed, that if he had had time he would hang him.-Upon
              this a person of the name of Reid entered, and being introduced to Cromwell, pre-
              sented to him a bond which Charles had granted him for a sum of money which he
              had lent him, and requested payment from him.  Cromwell refused to accept it, Ob.
                                                   3


