
382                      KIRKOUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

drowned in the Fleet at a place called " Stroquhan's pool," in com -
memoration of the mournful accident. *
	Mansion-houses,--These are, Cardoness,--out the castle of that
name, which has, for nearly a century and a half, been uninhabit-
able, but a comparatively modern house, built by the Maxwell fa-
mily,--Ardwall, Kirkclauch, Rusco House, built about the begin-
ning of the present century, and the Tower of Rusco, which is in-
habited, nnt by the proprietor, but by a tenant.

			III.--POPULATION.
	The population in 1841 was 883; in 1831, it was 830; in
1821, 845; in 1811, 740; in 1801, 637; and in 1755, 530.
Exclusive of Fleet Street, a suburb of Gatehouse extending into
Anwoth, and which is of recent origin; the number of inhabitants


         " We shall give a quotation from verses written on the occasion, and which have
been preserved traditionally for the long space of nearly a century and a-half.+
				Lately alone as I went on
				  The pleasant banks of Fleet,
				The sisters nine whispering syne,
				  Invited me to weep.
				'Twas in November ninety-nine
				   This tragedy befel,
				Which of Stroquhan, that gentleman,
				   Now ruefully I tell.

				From Bushy-Bield to Rusco Place
				   And Lag without delay,--
				At all these three kindly he
				   Invited was to stay.
				But generously promised had he
				   To meet some gentlemen
				To hunt on Dee, but rather he
				   Was forced unto his en'.

				He late did ride, without a guide,
				   Along a lanesome stank,
				His stumbling horse fell from his course
				   Out owre the water's bank.
				The night was dark, the water stark,
				   And nane to help the man,
				Till death accost, and so was lost
				   Brave Maxwell of Stroquhan

				Ye poets, with your trumps of fame,
				   Now laud and rapidly
				Proclaim the man, I mean Stroquhan,
				   Of glorious memory.

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Nicholson of Kirkcudbrigh, in his Historical and Traditional Tales (1843),
has published a version of the uncouth verses somewhat different from that which
is familiar to the present writer, and has taken no notice of the circumstances above
atated. There are other discrepancies between the two versions; but our informant,
a person of a most tenacious memory, a distant relative of Miss Brown, and born 117
years ago, near the spot where the accident happened, seems to us to be unexception-
able authority. We refer to Elizabeth Coughtry, who was born at Tanniefad, parish
of Girthon, in 1727.


