
				KILMADOCK.			1231

	Scottish language was called Spittel.  It is a singular conincidence
	that the people at first were, it is said, as jealous and suspicious of
	the bridge of Teith, as they were of the Deanston mill 250 years
	after. " Though this goodly edifice was a work of charity, and
	intended exclusively for their convenience," (as indeed the words
	" of alms" express), the common people could not help regarding
	it with all the suspicion and dislike which the lower classes of
	Scotland too often entertain respecting attempts at improvement,
	comfort, or decoration.  While they took advantage of the expen-
	sive public work erected for their service, they could not help
	thinking upon the good old Bridge of Callander with feelings of
	tenderness, and this sentiment seems to have extended itself into
	a comparison between the old and the new bridge, much to the
	disadvantage of the latter.  The rhyme in which this sentiment
	was embodied has been preserved by tradition, though the object
	of its flattery is supposed not to have been in existence since the
	time of the Reformation-
			The new brig of Doune, and the auld brig of Callendar,
			Four-and-twenty bows in the auld brig of Callendar."
	This, we suppose, alludes to the circumstance of there being no
	fewer than the extraordinary number of twenty-four arches in the
        ancient bridge !  *
	   Of the former-church at Kilmadock, there is still standings a
	small part, chiefly the east gable.  The ruin is highly picturesque,
	and the effect of the beautiful ivy-mantled window is in fine keep-
	ing with the romantic scenery of this sequestered spot.  Out of
	six chapels which are said once to have existed in the parish, four
	have entirely disappeared,-those of Aunat, Lanrick, Torry, and
	Walton.  There is still to be seen at,the bridge of Teith, a wall
	said to have been part of an old chapel there.  Of the chapel at
	Newton there remain the west gable and part of the side walls.
	   A cave is said to have been discovered at Coldoch, and there
	is the appearance of a camp close to Doune Lodge, with a
	large stone at some distance called the "camp stone," said to have
	given the property its former name Cambuswallace quari Wallace
	camp,--while one or two standing stones are to be seen, which
	are supposed to be Druidical monuments.  Before the date of
	last Account, several graver were discovered below Rosehall, en-
	closed with four stones each, in the form of the ancients tombs of
	Caledonia, but no bones remained; from which it is evident that

<FOOTNOTE>Chambers's Popular Rhymes, &c, &c. of Scotland.


