
132                         LANARKSHIRE.

College, on condition of his " services as well, and his prices being
as easy as other," Andrew, who had been a printer in Edinburgh,
not finding matters to his mind here, returned to Edinburgh, and
in 1671 he was made King's printer for Scotland. Anderson was
succeeded in Glasgow by Robert Saunders, who styled himself
printer to the city, and who was for many years the only printer
in the west of Scotland. But his predecessor, now the royal ty-
pographer, came to Glasgow, and by threats and promises prevail-
ed on Saunders' workmen to desert him in the midst of an impres-
sion of the New Testament. This oppressive conduct brought
the matter before the privy-council, which decided in December
1671, that Saunders should be allowed to finish his book, and that
any printer in Scotland had an equal right with his Majesty's to
print the New Testament and Psalm Book in the letter common-
Iy called English Roman. Saunders died about 1696, leaving his
printing establishment to his son Robert, better known by the de-
signation " of Auldhouse,"--a property purchased from a younger
branch of the family of Maxwell of Polloc. A few of the works
first printed by him were tolerably executed; but his latter pro-
ductions are extremely paltry and inaccurate. Printing was now,
and for some years afterwards, in the lowest state in Scotland.
The exorbitancy of the royal grant to Anderson had produced the
worst effects. No person appears to have been employed for the
sole purpose, of correcting the press; and the low wages given to
pressmen, with the badness of the machines themselves, also tend-
ed to retard the improvement.
	The University, in the meantitne, was not wanting in efforts to
improve the printing in Glasgow.  A paper, entitled " Proposals
for erecting a bookseller's shop, and a printing-press in the Uni-
versity of Glasgow," appears to have been presented to the faculty
in 1713, in which it is mentioned, that they were " obliged to go
to Edinburgh in order to get one sheet right printed." During the
same year, Thomas Harvie, a student of divinity, engaged to fur-
nish one or more printing-presses, and in the course of four years
to furnish founts and other materials for printing Greek, Latin,
and Hebrew, on condition that be should be declared University
printer and bookseller for forty years, " with all the privileges and
immunities which the University hath, or shall have hereafter, to
bestow on their printer and bookseller." Although these terms
were probably not ultimately accepted, they seem at least to have
been under frequent consideration; and the sketch of a Contact


