
                             GOVAN.                      679

   The last Principal of the College of Glasgow, who officiated
as minister of Govan, was Mr Robert Boyd of Trochrig.  His
father was Archbishop of Glasgow, nephew of Robert Lord Boyd,
and grandson of David Earl of Cassillis, and great-grandson of
Robert, Earl of Arran.  There is a memoir of Robert Boyd,
written by the indefatigable Wodrow, among his unpublished
MSS. in the Library of the College of Glasgow. *  When com-
piling it, Wodrow had access to some valuable papers in the pos-
session of the Trochrig family.  It is full of minute and interesting
details, which illustrate the manners of the tiles, and throw con-
siderable light on an important period in the history of our own
church, and of the Protestant Church of France.  The title is
itself an epitome of Boyd's Life. +  The early part of his educa-
tion was received in the academy at Ayr.  After graduating at
Edinburgh in 1595, he left Scotland, on his way to France, on
the 1st of May 1597. ++  Learned Scotsmen were at this time
resident in almost all the universities and colleges of that country.
In some of these, most of the professors were natives of Scotland.
Boyd soon found himself, therefore, surrounded by his countrymen.
During the greater part of the time he lived abroad, Boyd was
connected with the University of Saumure. S  It was chiefly through

<FOOTNOTE>It is dedicated to King James, and has this title, " Ad virulentum Archibaldi Ha-
miltonii Apostatae Dialogum, De, Confusione Calvinianae Sectae Apud Scotos, Impie
Conscriptum Orthodoxa Responsio, Edinburgi, 1579."  There is in it an account of
the last hours of John Knox, by one " qui ad extremum vsque spiritum aegrotanti
assedit."  The following affecting description, which has the vivid colouring of a pic-
ture by an eye-witness, is likewise given of the horrible atrocities of St Bartholomew's
Eve.  " Nulla cani capitis reverentia, nulla doctissimorum hominum ratio habita
fuit.  Grandaevae matres, virgines, puellae, ipsique infantes abstracti uberibus, misero-
que partu jam instante mulieres partim pedibus sicariorum calcantur in plateis, par-
tim vero unco in Sequanum trahuntur, paucos carceri committunt, quos statim postea
horribiliter trucidant," p. 117.  Dempster pronounces Smeton's work to be " opus
verborum ornatu non inelegans, " though his prejudices as a Roman Catholic lead
him to add, as might be expected, " doctrina vacuum." (Hist. Eccl. Scot. Tom.
ii. p. 586.)  In 1581, the General Assembly appointed " ane method of preaching to
be printed and put in Scotts be Mr Thomas Smeton." Booke of the Universal Kirk,
edited by A. Peterkin, p. 219.
          Wodrow MSS. Vol. xv.
          The title is, "Collections on the Life of Mr Robert Boyd of Trochrige, in the
shire of Air and bailayrie of Carrick, Professor of Philosophy in the Colledge of
Montauban, Minister of the Gospel in the Church of Vertuile, and Pastor and Pro-
fessor of Theology in the University of Saumure. in France; and Principal of the
University of Glasgow, Minister and Professor of Divinity at Edinburgh, and Mi-
nister at Paisley."
          The celebrated Andrew Revet states eroneously, that his friend arrived in
France 1604.  Robertii Bodii, Prelectiones in Epistolam ad Ephesios, Andreae
Riveti Epistola. p. 2.  Londini, 1652.
          In that university, in 1612, there were two Professors of Divinity, one Professor
of Hebrew, one Prnfessor of Greek, two Professor of Philosophy, and five Regents.
Quick's Synodicon, Vol. i p. 988.


