
			    BATHGATE.			     153

ed veins, exhibiting also traces of silver.  One lime-work retains
the name of Silver mine from silver ore having for some time been
wrought in it.  After yielding a considerable quantity of silver, the
veins became so small, that the produce would not repay the ex-
pense, and the lime alone is wrought now.  Traces of zinc (brown
blend) are said to have been observed.  Iron pyrites is frequently
found, disseminated in its crystalline forms.  Iron bands are ob-
served in the Kirkton formation.  In connection with the coal
strata, iron ore is sometimes found.  Formerly this ore was wrought
on the estate of Coustong, by the Carron Company.  It was found
in masses like rolled boulders, imbedded among clay, and was a
very rich ore.  Thin beds of mineral pitch are found in the limestone.
Calcspar is, of course plentiful; heavy-spar, pearl-spar, and Ly-
dian stone, are occasionally found, and, but more rare rarely, chal-
cedony.  In the hilly part of the parish, whinstone, greenstone,
and basalt are the prevalent rocks; in the level parts sandstone.
The rocks, except on the hills where they frequently crop out, are
covered with earth to the depth of 30 or 40 feet.  The general
subsoil is a wet tenacious clay.  Beds and knolls of sand and
gravel are, however, of frequent occurrence; and the general sub-
stratum of the south-east part of the parish is deep, gravel.  On
this, peat-moss is in some places superimposed.  Peat abounds in
the parish, and is sometimes of great depth.  Fire-clay is also
abundant.  In all the mosses, trees-generally oaks,-are found im-
bedded in considerable numbers.  Mr Weir, Junior, of Boghead,
is in possession of a fine specimen of the head and horns of the
red-deer, which were found in a meadow on his property in 1836.
The antlers measure respectively 3 feet 2 inches, aud 3 feet 3
inches.
   There are four limeworks in this parish; and a fifth (Kirkton)
recently suspended, besides older workings.  One of these works,
on the East Mains of Ballincrieff, is wrought in the great stratum
already mentioned, to the depth of about 25 feet, including a si-
licious bed about 5 feet thick, which is not worth burning.  The
tirring is here from 12 to 40 feet.  The covering consists first of
earth, then indurated slaty clay, or shared freestone, and flith.
The freestone is often anting.  Another work is carried on a
little farther south, on the same property.  It is in the same stra-
tum, but more advantageously situated for working, being partly
on the crop of the bed.  The part of the stratum wrought is here
somewhat thicker, and contains between 3 and 4 feet of matter not


