
188                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

eight woollen mills, whose annual consumpt is not less than 480,000
lbs. of wool. The manufactures make use chiefly of English wool,
from the sheep that pasture on the Cheviots, which costs from
Is. to Is. 6d. per pound.
    The number of persons employed is as follows: In the factories,
149 men, 50 women, 81 children; in the village 89 men, 175
women, 21 children, making the total number employed in these
woollen munufactures 565 individuals. The total number of looms
is as follows: looms in the factories, 90; looms in the village 80;
total 170. Of these, about 100 are employed in weaving soft
tartan shawls-40 at blankets and plaidings-24 at chequered
cassimeres-and 6 at carpetings. The wages of weavers may
average about 15s. per week, and superior workmen can earn from
L,1, to L. 1, 4s. The ordinary hours of labour are from 6 o'clock
A.M. to 7 o'clock P. M., except on Saturday, when labour is given
up at 5 P. M., and from this stated time one hour is allowed for
breakfast, and one for dinner. The working classes here are ex-
ceedingly healthy, and the children particularly exhibit remarkable
vivacity of mind, and vigour of body.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Ecclesiastical History.-The parish of Alva was, long before the
Reformation, in the diocese of Dunkeld and under the ecclesiasti-
cal jurisdiction of the Bishop of that See. By an extract taken
from the chartulary of Cambuskenneth, in the neigbbourhood of
Stirling, we learn, that the church of Alva was a mensel church, as
it is called, (de mensa Episcopi-part of the funds for the
Bishop's support,) belonging to that abbacy; and that the monks,
who were of the order of St Augustine, performed duty there,
from want of a sufficient fund to maintain a resident and regular
clergyman in the parish. In the year 1260, Richard, Bishop of
Dunkeld, made a donation to the monks of the church of St Wary
at Cambuskenneth, of "the church of Alva with all its legal perti-
nents," and dispensed with their employing a vicar to officiate
statedly. The following reason is then assigned, "virorum re-
ligiosorum abbatis et conventus de Cambuskenneth, paupertati
compatientes,-charitatis intuitu, et propter tenuitatem ecclesiae
de Alveth." By another extract from the same chartulary, it ap-
pears that Alexander, styled Domi\n1us de Striveling Miles, made
a grant of one acre of land to God, the Virgin Mary, to St Ser-
vanus, and to the church of St Servanus de Alveth, describing it
particularly as lying near the well of St Servanus, " et inter ipsum
fontem (St Serf's well) et ecclesiain." This charter bears date


