
  		 ISLAND OF SKYE-PORTREE.                  223

   of pasture most common in the parish, comes on in the spring of
   the year, they acquire strength, agility, and condition. They
   are much looked after, and in high estimation with deal-
   ers in cattle from the southern parts of the empire; and when
   pastured for any length of me in the south of Scotland or Eng-
   land, they grow to a much larger size, and their flesh is found to
   be superior in point of taste and flavour. The sheep in the pa-
   rish, till within the last twenty or thirty year, was the old High-
   land breed, very small in size; but the fineness of their wool ap-
   proached, or was nearly equal to that of the Cheviot sheep, and
   the quality of their flesh was far superior. The old native sheep
   of this parish are now crossed with the black-faced sheep of the
   south country, and have degenerated much from the original
   stock, both in regard to flesh and wool, though they have certainly
   improved much in size. The horses possessed by the small te-
   nants are very small, but hardy; easily fed; and never housed
   in winter. They are served with little hand-feeding in the fields,
   and still they maintain their condition, so as to be able to work
   in the spring season of the year. This facility in feeding and
   supporting the small breed of horses, induces the small tenants
   and cottars in some instances, to keep too many of them, and
   thereby greatly to injure their other and more valuable stocks.
   As to hogs and goats, of the former there are very few in the pa-
   rish ; and Lord Macdonald has, for many years past, prohibited
   the latter to be kept on his property, as they were considered by
   him highly injurious to wood plantations. The rivers, lakes, and
   sea coast all round the parish, abound with various kinds of fishes,
   and all of the most delicious and nutritive qualities. In the ebart.
   nel which separates Rasay from the main body of the parish, and
   on all sides of the Island of Rasay, cod, ling, lythe, skate, had-
   docks, whitings, euddies, flounders, and herrings abound. In the
   rivers and estuaries, there is salmon. Salmon does not go up the
   rivers in this parish, till late in the month of July ; and even then
   they show every disposition to return in a short time and before
   the channel of the rivers dries up. They seem also to anticipate,
   a change from dry to rainy, weather, as, a  short time previous to
   rain, they are seen in numbers at the entries of rivers, and the
   moment rain comes on, and a sufficient depth of water to afford
   them a passage, they rush up with the greates, rapidity; but at
   this period, salmon show a great discernment in perceiving the


