
12                       SHETLAND.

   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, in Bressa and Noss, Wil-
liam Mouat. Esq. In Quarff. the Right Honourable Lord Dun-
das; John Ogilvy, Esq.; Mr. Andrew Irvine; and Mr Thomas
Henry. In Burra, John Scott, Esq. of Scalloway. In Hevera,
Robert Bruce, Esq. of Symbister.
   For time immemorial, separate sessions have been held at the
kirks of Bressay and Burra; and it is probable that a volume or
volumes of minutes and registers have been lost, at both places.
The first extant are in the worst condition, and much multilated;
the earliest date 1737. They are now better kept; and it is found
expedient to have a separate book and register at Quarff.
   In Noss, a small burying-ground is used, lying round the frag-
ments of what appears to have been a Popish chapel.
   There are threer burying-grounds in Bressay. The most an-
cient appears to have been at Gunista, on the north part of it.
There is here a small fragment of a church, which seems to have
hadd vaults below it, or, according to traddition, a prison attached to
it. On the site of this church, a spacious tomb of hewn stone, and
neat workmanship, was built by some former proprietor, the walls
of which remain.
   The ruins of a church appear also at Culbinsgarth, on the north-
east, where there is another burying-ground; and from this place
Mr Umphray's deeds of mortification are dated. How long be-
fore this the manse and kirk had subsisted, does not appear; but
they were both removed to the present site, on the west, in 1722;
and since that time, the church has been renewed once, and the
manse twice.
   Several traces of Pictish buildings occur, mostly in the form of
subterranean cells; and both in Bressay and Burra, are some of
these objects called standing-stones.
   Of late years, some tumuli were discovered, containing square
stones, within which were bones, exhibiting marks of combustion.
Other conically shapped knolls, that have every appearance of
being tumuli, have never yet been opened.
   The churches in Bessay and Burra are small and incommodious.
The Government Church in Quarff is a commodious and beautiful
building.

<TABLE=Population>
                                  III.POPULATION.
                           In 1801, the population was 1330
                              1811,                     1411
                              1821,                     1585
                              1831,                     1699


