
                         LARBERT.                          375

shay and Sons in Glamorganshire had in 1835, so great a number
as thirteen blast-furnaces, if I recollect right, and they, moreover,
convert the cast-iron into the malleable state of bar-iron, a very im-
portant process, which is not carried on at Carron, and Which has
not yet, in 1839, been done, to any considerable extent in Scotland.
    The glassy slag from the blast-furnaces, consisting of vitrified
lime and other earths,* called in the distriva danders, was long
an incumbrance, and huge bills of this scoria were accumulated.
In consequence of the attention paid to the repair of roads, this
material (in the absence of metal of greater endurance,) is so
much in request, that it (the danders) is carried away as soon as
taken from the furnace.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market-town in the parish; and the
several large villages of Carronshore, Stenbouse muir, Cuttyfield,
Quarol, Larbert, are parts of the Carron Iron-works, or its depen-
dent collieries, all of which places are supplied with butcher-

   <FOOTNOTE>This slag swims on the surface of the liquid iron in the furnace. It consists of
all those parts of the coke, limestone, and ironstone, which are vitrifiable by the heat
of the furnace. It consists of silicate of lime, and, if I recollect right, the colour
which prevails in the slag has been ascribed by some modern chemists to silicate of
tetanium. In an iron smelting-furnace, commonly called a blast-furnace, the iron
which inthe ironstone exists dispersed in very minute particles in the state of oxide
of iron, is deprived of its oxygen by the carbon of the coke, and is thereby reduced
to the state of cast-iron. The small drops of this cast-iron collect gradually during
twelve hours, and falling down, unite together into a liquid mass in a cavity at the
bottom of the furnace. On the top of the liquid iron in this cavity, the slag swims
and flows out in a liquid red-hot state. At the end of every twelve hours, the keepeir
of the furnace, a strong muscular man, taps the cavity; by perforating and demolish-
ing forcibly, with an iron bar, the dam of fire-clay which form, the front of the ca-
vity. When an opening is thus made, the liquid iron flows out in the state of cast-
iron, and is received in cavities made in. the send, which give it the form of pieces of
about two-and-a-half feet long, called pigs, and the iron in this state is called pig-
iron. After the melted iron has been let out and cast into pigst the.keeber,again
makes up the front of the cavity with fire-clay, and the cavity then receives again the
melted iron, which drops into it from the body of the furnace during the next twelve
hours; the sides of the lower part of the furnace being in fown of a funnel, which
terminates in the cavity.

   <FOOTNOTE>Cast-iron is called in Scotch yetlin, a word derived from the same root as gieten,
Dutch  ginta, Swedish; gyde, Danish; giessen, German; jeter, French ; all which
signify to cast. Guss-eisen, German, is from the same root. The English word, t0
gush, is also from the same root.
   Cast-iron appears to have been unknown to the ancient Egyptians, Greeks, and
Romans. I do not know of any instrument of cast-iron amongst the works of the
nations which are preserved.
  Cast-iron has long been made in China and Japan. The Chinese cast it into the
form of bowls for boiling rice in and other vessels.
  About 1740-1750, no cast-iron was made in Scotland, and the cast-iron plates used
for the backs of fireplaces in rooms were imported from Holland. They had the
figure of a parrot on them in, relief, and other figures; some of these wer Perharps
made at Siegen, in Germany.


