
                      RENFREW.                                 3

surrounding country, we know of no point better than the hill on
which the High Church of Paisley stands.
   Climate.-Although our climate cannot differ greatly from that
of the surrounding parishes, it is probably in some respects modi-
fied.  Most of the parish lies very low, and is yet remarkably open;
the subsoil is generally dry and gravelly,-in many places, a bed of
fine sand; the tide ebbs and flows through it in several channels; and
it is to a considerable extent sheltered by the Kilpatrick and
Carnpsie hills on the north; and the upper lands of Renfrewshire
on the south and south-west.  These and other local circumstances
probably affect both the temperature and the quantity of rain com-
mon to the surrounding parishes.  Unfortunately there is no journal
kept on either of these points; but we know it to be the opinion
of several intelligent observers, that there is a difference. Showers,
especially from the west, are attracted by the hills, and fall out in
the more brokenparts of the country, very much passing over the
central plain.  An intelligent farmer, who has resided all his life
on an elevated tract of the Kilpatrick hills, from which the
whole vale of the Clyde may be distinctly seen, assured the writer,
that he has been always accustomed to observe the lands about
Renfrew and the point of Cardross, (another point similarly situat-
ed,) sooner free of snow than any other part within view. In com-
mon also with other parts of the country, our climate has been im-
proving.  Our winters are milder, our summers are said to be
cooler; and yet between sowing and reaping there is a shorter pe-
riod.  This last mav be in part owino, to the introduction of fo-
reigns seeds, that are of quicker growth; but still more, we appre-
hend, to increased draining, better and more thorough cultivation,
and stimulating more abundantly with hot manures.  The general
deepening and embankment of our rivers, the drying up of stag-
nant pools, the growing of plantations containing many evergreens,
and the cultivation of the country at large, must have also contri-
buted to the amelioration of our winters.  We are not sure whether
the greater coolness of summer has yet been sat satisfactorily explained.
The greater cold during winter might have made the summer's heat
more noticeable, and perhaps the inferior equipments of husbandry,
used sixty years ago, might have rendered both men and cattle more
oppressed by the heat; but may it not be farther submitted, whether,
upon the same principle on which both the summer's heat and the
winter's cold are modified near the sea, namely, the greater radia-
tion of heat,-the general and more thorough cultivation of the soil


