
                    COLLESSIE.                              31
 
So many of the heritors permanently resident, not only form a
pleasant neighbourhood, but their residence exerts a very favour-
able influence upon the condition and moral character of the whole
population. Anxious as the gentlemen of the parish are to give
employment to the labouring-classes, and to relieve the necessities
of the poor, their liberality, as will appear in a subsequent part of
this account, is of great benefit to the parish. And it may be said
of the people at large, that they enjoy, in a very considerable de-
gree, the comforts and advantages of society.
During the last three years there have been 2 illegitimate births.
                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Manufactures.-There are no manufactories or public works in
this parish. Yet more than a hundred families are supported by hand-
loom weaving, the materials being supplied by agents, and the manu-
factured goods transmitted by them to Glasgow, Dundee, and Aber-
deen. It requires great industry to enable a weaver to make 9s. a-
week. Females are also employed in this occupation, whose earn-
ings are scarcely so good.
   Agriculture.- The number of acres, imperial measure, cultivated
or occasionally in tillage, is about 5000. There may be between 200-
and 800 imperial acres of marshy and barren land lying continually
waste, almost the whole of which might be improved for pasture, or
planted to advantage. The only common in the parish, viz. Edens-
muir and Motiks-moss, was divided by Adam Rolland, Esq. aclvo-
cate, as arbiter, about forty years ago.
   Plantations.-The greater part of that common, extending in all
to 967 imperial acres, has been planted, chiefly in fir. Weddersbie
hill, also, extending to upwards of 200 imperial acres, was planted
upwards of twenty years ago by William Johnston, Esq. of Lathrisk,
the proprietor. The plantations in the neighbourbood of the man-
sions in the parish extend to 60 or 70 acres,-so that the total wood-
land may be about 1237 imperial acres.
  In Edensmuir and Monks-moss the wood planted is chiefly fir, too
generally of a soft yellow pine, by mistake, instead of the Scotch
fir. This great forest did not, in due time, receive judicious pe-
riodic,al thinnings, which, from the lightness of the soil, it particu-
larly required. It is, consequently in many places, not in a thriv-
ing state, and the trees will not reach above two-thirds of the size to
which they might otherwise have attained.
  Upwards of twenty years ago, a large fir plantation on the bor-
ders of the common, belonging to the Earl of Leven and Melville,


