
                          INVERARY.                           29

removed to better pasture reward the feeder by growing to a great
size.
   The dairy does not occupy much of the attention, or contribute
much to the profit of the farmer, as the milk is given to the calves.
The butter, however, is uniformly rich and good, and when the
cheeses are made large with sweet milk, they are of excellent
quality.  Prizes have for some years been given in this coun-
ty by the Highland Society, for the best imitation of Dunlop, Che-
shire, &c. cheeses-forgetting the fate of imitators in every art.
Would it not be better to bring the Highland cheese to perfec-
tion than to attain to mediocrity of imitation?  When the nature
of the milk is considered, it may safely be affirmed that attention
and quantity would render the native cheeses different, indeed, in
character, but inferior to none in relish.
   The black-faced sheep is the only breed in the parish, and great
attention is paid to their improvement, by purchasing tups of the
best stamp, keeping none above four years old, and by careful ma-
nagement otherwise.
   From June 10th to 15th the lambs are cut, and yield ewes clip-
ped.  Early in July the milk ewes are clipped. About the 1st of
August the lambs are taken from their dams, and in large flocks
herded separately from the rest of the flock till January; but in
small flocks, after being fed for a week or ten days, on grass pre-
viously preserved, they are allowed to mingle with the flock.
About the 20th of October the tups are separated from the flock
and herded apart till about the 20th of November.  They are
smeared when separated, as are the whole flock afterwards, with
salve composed of about 10 pints imperial of tar and 28 lbs. but-
ter imperial.
   The breed of horses is generally mixed, being a cross between
the native mare and a larger horse from the south.  The old High-
land breed is yet to be found.  Prizes have been given also by the
Highland Society for the improvement of the native horse,
by bringing entire horses from Clydesdale and other places,
thus to substitute a larger breed instead of the native; but the
slightest consideration is sufficient to convince any person acquaint-
ed with the pasture, that this mode of improvement must end in
disappointment.  The proprietor and large storemaster may, in-
deed, be thus supplied with large horses, but they will be such as
cannot live on the short pile of grass which the best heath pas-


