
			BRACADALE.                          297

      There is only one gentleman of supposed independent fortune
   residing in the parish.
      There are about 20 unmarried men, bachelors and widowers
   upwards of fifty years of age, and about 150 unmarried womem
   upwards of forty-five years of age. The average number of chil-
   dren in each family is 4.
      Language.-Tbe language generally spoken is Gaelic; and it
   has lost no ground within the last forty years.
      Habits of the People.-The habits of the people are far from
   cleanly. In their dress, they are not different from the other inhabi-
   tants of the Hebrides; and as to their food they are generally not
   considered ill provided, who can feed on potatoes and salt; and dur-
   ing, the last season even that would have been a luxury to many of
   them. Regarding their comforts as to clothing, it may be suffi-
   cient to mention, that, when it was apprehended the cholera would
   spread to these quarters, inquiries were, directed to be made on
   this point, and there were 140 families found in the parish who
   had no change of night or day-clothes. From the above remarks
   as to food and clothing, it must appear evident, that the people
   are far from enjoying the ordinary comforts of society ; and, un-
   der such circumstances, it is but natural they should feel discon-
   tented with their situation ; and if their complaints are not more
   loudly beard, one great reason is, that the system of farming pur-
   sued has placed them in such absolute dependence on the tacks-
   men, as to preclude any hope of amelioration.
     Character.-Tbe people, in general, are shrewd and sagacious,
   and manifest a good degree of intellect as to the ordinary affairs
   of life ; as to morality and religion, it is yet but a day of small
   things.

  			  IV.-INDUSTRY.
      Ayriculture.-Tbe number of arable acres, according to survey,
   is 4878 ; of pasture and hill-grazing, 68,311. From the system
   of farming already mentioned, the proportion of the arable ground
   in cultivation is inconsiderable.
      There is no arable land rented separately. The average rent
   of grazing is at the rate of L.3 per cow, and at the rate of 2s. 6d.
   per ewe for the year.
      Leases.-The general duration of leases is fifteen years. The
   staple produce of the parish is sheep and cattle, on the rearing of
   which considerable attention is bestowed. Of sheep, there are
   annually exported about 4500, and of black-cattle about 450.
     INVERNESS.                          U


