
                        ERROL.                              399

     ed in the parish in connexion with the Established Church.
     Owing chiefly to the death of some of the teachers, and the diffi-
     culty, in some localities, of finding others to occupy their places,
     these institutions are now reduced in number to three or four.  At
     present, however, there is the prospect of having them restored to
     their former number and efficiency.  There is also a Sabbath
     school in connexion with each of the dissenting congregations.
         Literature.-Besides a small public subscription library, which
     was instituted in the village of Errol in the year 1824, there is a
     pretty large and valuable library connected with the Sabbath
     schools of the Established Church.  It was begun in the year
     1820, and now contains 378 volumes,-a portion of which is made
     to itinerate every year among the different local schools.  In two
     at least of the Dissenting congregations, there is belonging to each
     a similar institution, though not of the same extent.  From all
     these sources collectively, the inhabitants of this parish must enjoy
     the privilege of having access to the perusal of not less than 1200
     volumes of useful and instructive books.  This privilege, acquired
     chiefly through the repeated contributions of the people them-
     selves, appears to have been justly prized, and, in ordinary times,
     diligently improved, especially bv the young, for whom, indeed, it
     was principally intended.
         Friendly Societies.-There is only one such institution in the

     parish, called " The Friendly Society of Errol."  The sole ob-
     jects of this society are, 1. To afford to its members, after they
     have been in connexion with it for eighteen months, and paid all
     the sums that are due to it, a weekly allowance, when under sick-
     ness nr infirmity, of not less than 6d., and not more than 4s. per
     week, according to the number of shares for which they have be-
     come contributors; and, 2. To afford an allowance for funeral
     expenses, not less than L. 1, and, not greater than L. 4, according
     to the number of shares which they have taken in this department
     of the funds, and to which they have regularly contributed from
     the time of their entrance.  The society was instituted in the
     month of February 1811, and remodelled in the year 1829 ac-
     cording to the data afforded in the Report of the Committee of
     the Highland Society of Scotland.  The present number of its
     members is only 39.  The nature of its regulations is such as is
     calculated to promote industry, and to cherish a spirit of inde-
     pendence among its members ; but, considering the populations of
     the neighbourhood, it would appear that there are few who have.


