
                                ARDCHATTAN.                         475

      the year, it is not usual for snow to continue on our low grounds
      for more than a few days.
       Hydrography.-Loch-etive and Loch-creran, the two arms of
      the sea bv which so large a proportion of the parish is bounded
      and intersected, have already been noticed.  The former branches
      from the Llinnhe loch at Dunstaffnage castle, and, after passing
      Connell and Bunawe, bends towards the north, and stretches into
      the interior among the mountains, till it terminates at Kinloch-
      etive, its entire length being twenty-two miles.  In breadth it va-
      ries from less than a quarter of a mile to a mile and a half, and,
      in consequence of the high grounds and projecting points along
      its shores, it seems in several places as if landlocked, and thus
      presents the appearance of so many inland lakes.
        The depth of Loch-etive varies from twenty fathoms, which
      may be. given as its medi    -um. depth, to upwards of a hundred
      fathoms, that being its depth a little beyond the base of Ben-
      cruaclian.  The anchorage in its bays is safe and good; and it
      is regularly navigated by vessels of from sixty to a hundred tons
      register.  The saltness of its waters decreases above Connell, in
      consequence of the quantity of fresh water received from the
      many rivers and streams which empty themselves into it; and
      this fact, while it is perceptible to the taste, is indicated also by
      the diminished size of the Algoe along its shores.  The tide rises
      fourteen feet at Connell, and beyond that, towards the mountains,
      only ten feet.
        At Connell ferry the channel of Locli-etive is narrowed by
      the form of the land and projecting rocks, from a breadth of up-
      wards of a mile, -to a space of no more than two hundred yards;
      while a ledge of rock, the top of which becomes visible at about
      balf-tide, runs across two-thirds of tbis.narrow space.  The con-
      sequence is, that, at certain times during the ebbing and flowing of
      the tide, a striking marine fall is exhibited.   The tide rushes over
      the ledge of rock, and through the narrow channel left, with
      a rapidity which is quite resistless, and with a noise which, dur-
      Ing spring-tides, in calm weather and in certain states of tbeat-
      mosphere, is heard at the distance of several miles.  Yet with all
      this, though terrific to a stranger, Connell is by no means a dan-
      gerous ferry even when the tide is most impetuous, and the roar-
      ing of the stream most deafening; for the boatmen, aware of the
      Peculiarities in the current and eddies, manage accordingly, and
      contrive to make what would at first appear to be an insuperable


