
294			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

<TABLE>

Average produce of grain of all kinds, in imperial bushels,          42900
Number of acres in potatoes and turnips,                               600
		in hay, (meadow and cultivated,)                       750
		of land in pasture,                                   2947
		used for grazing black cattle, at the rate of two acres
		    per cow, or full-grown ox,                   2497
		used for grazing sheep, at the rate of one acre per
		    sheep, (with lambs,)                         450
	The yearly rental of the parish, in houses as well as land, is
about L. 7000.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets, &c.--Once at least every month a market is held in
the villafe of Ecclefechan. But these markets or fairs have not
been nearly so well attended ever since the establishment of a weekly
market in Annan, which took place about fifteen or twenty years
ago. A pork market, which has just been commenced here, and
which is to be held every week throughout the winter, promises to
thrive exceedingly well. The village is advantageously situated for
such a market, as almost every cottager in the neighbourhood keeps
a hog or two, which he fattens sometimes to a great size. There
is only one regular butcher in Ecclefechan, but he generally ma-
nages to afford a sufficient supply to the place. There are 3 join-
ers, 3 blacksmiths, 4 cobblers, 1 baker, 2 haberdashers, 2 grocers,
and 4 innkeepers. But the manufacture of ginghams constitutes
the principal means of subsistence to the inhabitants of this village.
	Means of Communication.--In this respect the parish enjoys
many advantages. There are carriers from Ecclefechan to almost
every place of any importance within a circuit of at least fifty or
sixty miles. One goes to Edinburgh regularly once a-fortnight,
besides whom there are others who occasionally go. The con-
stant passing and repassing of the Glasgow and London mail-coach
affords great regularity and facility to communication. There is a
reading-room in the village, to which every one may resort for the
trifling sum of one penny per visit. There is one large beautiful
stone bridge over the Annan, two of smaller dimensions over the
Mein, besides a considerable number, though of very insignificant
dimensions, which span the stream at Ecclefechan, and give a pe-
culiar appearance to the village. Besides the highway, (which,
between the point where it enters the parish, and that at which
it leaves it, is about three miles long,) there are five cross roads,
all of which are almost equal to turnpike. The hedges and fences,
too, are well kept in general.


