
                                GAMRIE.             295

   Wilson, Esq. of Jamaica; and L. 20 by . a Mr West, for annuities
   to be paid to certain poor individuals specified; but the sum is not
   available for the general poor. The average number of paupers
   on the roll is 100, beside about twenty families that receive occa-
   sional aid. The distributions for the relief of single 6emilies are,
   largest, L.7, 16s. ; smallest, 6s.; average, L. 2, 3s. Gd. Average
   amount of contributions' for the poor, from church collections,
   L. 100 ; from voluntary assessment of the heritors, L. 100 ; from
   alms, legacies, &c., L.50. The heritors assesred themselves last
   year to the amount of L.100 to supply prerent wants; but it is to
   be feared a public assessment cannot long be avoided.
      Inns.-Low public-houses have been a great nuisance in this
   parish and neighbourbood, for a considerable number of years.
   There are far too many of them yet in the town of Maeduff and
   the villages.
      Fuel.-There was peat fuel in the parish, but it is all exhausted.
   There is, however, an inexhaustible stock of peat moss, in the hills
   of Kinbean and Overbrae, in the parishes of Aberdour and King-
   Edward, and from this the farmers drive a considerable portion of
   their fuel during summer, at a time when there is little else to do for
   their servants and horses. Were it not for this, peats would be much
   more expensive fuel in this parish than coals, which are imported
   in sufficient abundance during summer to Macduff, Gardenstown,
   and occasionally to Cullycan, generally from the Newcastle and
   Sunderland mines.
                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
      A remarkably good feeling has existed, time out of mind, in this
   parish, between landlord and tenant. The Earls of Fife and the
   Gardens of Troup have been proverbial for ages as good land
   lords.One consequence of this is, that the land is not rack-rent-
   ed, andthe cultivators of the soil are in general what is called
   well tolive; while the landlord, on the other hand, has seldom
   to complain of ill paid rents. It is a rule with both landlords ne-
   ver to move a well doing tenant. And many is the instance in
   which the farmer can say or sing,
                "The farm I now bold on your honour's estate
                Is the saine which my grandfather tilled," &c.
      Another peculiarity among the tenantry which proceeds; no
   doubt, from the same cause, is an endless chain of connee-
   tion, running through them by I kindred and intermarriages.
   With few exceptions, the families of the whole, farms on the


