
                          LARBERT.                         361

of Roman authors, that the Romans had any temples dedicated to
Terminus.
  Dr Stukeley, in his description of Arthur's Oon (27 pages, 4to,
1720), will have it to be a temple dedicated to Romulus.
  Dio Cassius relates, that in the Roman camps there was a small
temple, in which the Roman eagle and the military standards were
adored. Gordon (in his Itinerarium Septentrionale, 1726), sup-
poses that Arthur's Oon was one of these temples, and that it was
built about the year 75 of the Christian era by Julius Agricola,
who was Prefect in Britain in the latter part of the reign of Ves-
pasian, and was the first Roman general who ever entered Scot-
land with a Roman army. Tacitus, in his Life of Agricola, re-
lates that Agricola fortified this part of the country, namely, the
istbmus between Forth and Clyde, by a line of garrisoned forts;
"Nam Glota (Clyda) et Bodotria (Votria, Vortia)* * * * *
angusto terrarum spatio dividuntur quod tum presidiis firmabatur."
This praetentura, or frontier line of forts, was, it is supposed, about
a mile to the north of the line on which the Wall of Antoninus,
called Graeme's Dike, was afterwards constructed.
  Gordon, moreover, conjectures, that Arthur's Oon may have been
a tomb as well as a camp-temple. The size and form of the
building agree well enough with the conjecture of its being a
tomb; but there is no well authenticated account that any urn or
sepulchral chest was ever found in it, to confirm that conjecture.
  Another period to which the building of Arthur's Oon might be
ascribed, is about the year 144, in the reign of Aritoninus Pius,
the adopted son of Adrian, when Lollius Urbicus, the emperor's
lieutenant, formed the vallum called Graeme's dike from the Frith
of Forth to the Frith of Clyde. Arthur's Oon is situated not far
from this vallum, being about two miles north of it. It may, there-
fore, be conjectured, that Arthur's Oon might be built about the
time of the construction of the vallum. There is, however, no di-
rect nor satisfying solution of the question to what period of the Ro-
man dominion in Britain the building belongs. It is probably not
of so late a date as 310, when Constantine reigned. About l00
years after which, namely in 407, the Roman dominion in Britain
came to an end, in the reign of Honorius, two years before the
sacking of Rome by Alaric. During the next thirty years, troops
were occasionally sent by the. Romans to assist the provincial
Britons against the attacks of the Scots and Picts. But at last
this aid ceased, and no further assistance could be obtained in


