
                    AYR.                                    3

footing as to clerical superintendence. The two contain about
5000 acres.
	Soil and Surface.-- To a short distance along the margin of the
sea, the soil is light and sandy, though almost the whole of it is
under cultivation. It bears tolerably fair crops, unless in very dry
seasons, and from the care that is taken in enriching it every year
with manure and sea weed, it is improving progressively into an
earthy vegetable consistence. Beyond this, the land for nearly
two miles of breadth inland is rich and fertile, but, chiefly by
means of vegetable mixtures, on a sandy surface; it is kindly in its
nature and easily worked, and capable of bearing luxuriant crops
of all sorts of grain and culinary herbs. A considerable part of
it is under thriving plantations, which, by the shelter they afford,
add much to its fertility and productiveness. About two miles and
a-half inland from the coast, the soil becomes less free and gener-
ous, in proportion as the ground begins to ascend, until it dege-
nerates into a cold stiff clay, or till, in the upper part of the parish,
yielding but indifferent crops, and being equally unfavourable for
pasture. The whole parish, however, is in a state of tillage, with
the exception of the Fort-Green belonging to the Marquis of Ailsa,
a small inclosure behind Wellington Square, called the Low Green,
and the race course, all of which are generally kept in pasture,
though also capable of cultivation. The race-course consists of
80 or 90 acres, inclosed with a stone wall, and was formerly a
common, free to every burgess for feeding cows, It is now held as
the property of the burgh, and let by public roup annually to the
highest bidder; but when or how the burgesses came to lose their
right of commonaqe cannot well be ascertained. It must have been
within the last forty years, as it is stated to have been a common
at the date of the last Statistical Account of Ayr; and its having
ceased to be so, must doubtless have been with the consent, ex-
pressed or implied, of those having right to it.
	External Appearance.--In the upper part of the parish, the land
is cold and bleak, and very tame in point of scenery. A few belts
of plantation would greatly improve it, both as regards shelter and
ornament; and that trees are capable of thriving, even in the most
exposed situations, is evident from the fir clumps that surround the
farms of Pleasantfield, Abbeybill, Cockhill, and Bellsbank. Most
of the fields in this high ground are subdivided by thorn hedges,
and where thorns will grow, the more hardy forest trees would also
thrive. Descending a little lower down, there is no want of wood


