
530                                  PERTHSHIRE.

struggling river to a bed of not much more than eight yards abroad.
It is evident that, at one time, there were several lakes in the
glen, especially in the lower parts of it; but as the river, in the
course of ages, wore a deeper channel through rocks and emi-
nences, they disappeared. The only one now remaining is that
at the head of the glen, " Lochlyon," which is the source of the
river of that name. To this circumstance may, perhaps, be attri-
buted the name " Glenlyon," Gleann-Linne, i. e. the glen of the
lakes, or pools. Others derive the name from " Glen-lighe-amhuinn,"
" the glen of the flooding river," a name highly characteristic.
   Tradition also bears that a battle was fought in this glen be-
twixt the M'Ivors, the first inhabitants of the glen, after the Finga-
lians, (at which period it was called Gleann-Fasach, " the desert-
ed Glen,") and Stewart of Garth, commonly called the Cuilean
Curta, i.e. " the fierce wolf," in which the M'Ivors were defeat-
ed, and the few that survived expelled the district; and that the
Stewarts, on their return from the pursuit, washed their arms,
&c. in the river. From the tinge thus given to the water, it
was called Gleann liamhuinn, the tinged river. Various places
in the glen take their names from circumstances connected with
the battle fought on this occasion, viz. laggan-a-chatha, " the
hollow of the battle"-Leachd-nan-cuaran, the stone of the sand-
als, it being customary for each man, preparatory to the engage-
ment, to cast off one of his buskins,-so that, on their return, the
number amissing might be easily ascertained.
   Immediately previous to its assuming its present name, tradition
bears that it was called Gleann-duibhe, the Glen of the black water:
-and during the Fingalian period it was called Crom-ghleann-nan-
clach"-the crooked glen of the stones;-not, however, because
more stony than many other castles and forts in several parts of the
glen, built entirely of dry stones: and which the people affirm to
have been the residence of Fingal and his heroes,-
	Bha da chaisteal dheug aig Fionn
	Ann an Crom ghleann man clach,-
   " Fingal had twelve castles in the crooked glen of the stones."
   For pasturage, Glenlyon is exceeded by few, if any glens, in the
Highlands of Perthshire. Its sides are, in general, green to the very
top of the mountains. The activity of the north side is almost always
abrupt, and consequently, the distance to the summit of the ridge is
shorter than on the south side, exceeding in no part five miles, and
often falling short of this ; whereas the latter sometimes exceeds six

                                 4


