
                         PAISLEY.                              289

of the town-council, for the benefit of poor persons, aged and in-
firm, and subject to the specifications of the several donors.

<TABLE>

Alms House mortification,        -        L. 259  6  8 for benefit of 3 poor persons,
Mrs Armour's do.                              55 11  1     do.        2        do.
Robert Alexander's do.                       112  2  2     do.        2        do.
Robert Peter's do.                           166 13  4     do.        3        do.
James Maxwell's do.                          100  0  0     do.        4        do.
Park and Hutcheson's do.                     200  0  0     do.        4        do.
Baillie Reid, a grant ofland producing at pre-
  sent a yearly rent of                       51 11  3     do.        4        do.
Miss Maxwell of Williamwood,                 600  0  0     do.        3     families.

   The above trusts have been judiciously and impartially admini-
stered, and much benefit has been the result to many poor indivi-
duals in old age who have seen better days.
   Relief granted to the Poor by Dissenting Congregations.-The
duty of granting relief to poor members is generally recognized
by the dissenting bodies of this place.  In 1817, the annual
amount thus granted was estimated, from pretty correct data, to be
about L.650. *  We have endeavoured to obtain a return of the
distributions during 1836, by the four leading dissenting congre-
gations of Paisley, but have received for reply, that "the informa-
tion requested cannot be obtained;" as, "in present circumstances,
there is a fear of the use that might be made of such statements."
   Friendly Societies.-Of these institutions, Paisley has had a due
proportion.  By the middle of the seventeenth century, we find
them in operation, and by the beginning of the eighteenth, every
trade seems to have had its society for the support of decayed
members.  About the middle of that century, these were again
followed by a class of societies assuming each the name of a lo-
cal district, as the "Croft," and the "Maxwelton" societies, or the
more general appellation of the "Princes," the "Ayrshire," the
"Cumberland," &c.  Such was the assiduity of members in ge-
neral, and especially of the annually elected deacons, during the
period they were in office, to add to the number on the roll, that
scarcely a young man escaped being a member of one or more of
these institutions, of which, by the beginning of the nineteenth
century, the town could number twenty-five, all in operation.
   The mode of calculation, however, on which such societies should
be founded was not as yet properly understood; so that although
those in existence were productive of much benefit to the town in
general, and to their members in particular, it was soon found that
a miscalculation of the demands on them, or of the wants or dis-

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Burns on the Poor, P. 161, 1st edition.


