
                	KILMARNOCK.                             563

         Friendly Societies.-There are 37 Friendly Societies in the
town, some of which-are of recent formation, and others have
existed for more than twenty years. In rome of them, the mem-
bers are all females, but in most of them they are males. In one
of the former, the object is to provide for female servants who have
become infirm or who are worn out by age and labour: Another,
the Kilmarnock Female Benevolent Society, which has existed for
thirty years, and which has been eminently useful, extends its as-
sistance to poor females in general: Another, which is supported
by gentlemen, provides the same objects towards poor males.
         Poor and Parochial Funds.-Pauperism, which had been kept
in check while the funds for the support of the poor were raised
by voluntary contribution, is now, under the compulsory system of
assessment, on the increase. The number of natives of the sister
isle, who have acquired a residence in the parish, and whose names
stand upon the pauper's roll, is considerable; and, notwithstand-
ing noble exceptions, there is much more, than once there was, of
a disposition among many of our own poor to look upon parochial
relief as a right rather than a painful resort.
	The lowest sum allowed to any pauper is 2s. a month, the highest
8s., unless in very peculiar circumstances. House-rents are paid for
paupers to the amount of about L. 120 yearly. The number of cases
at present on the poor's roll is about 277; and as many of these
cases include families or more individuals than one, the number of
persons receiving some aid is perhaps 500.
	The year's assessment may be said to average about L. 1500.
Formerly, the assessment was raised in equal proportions from the
town and country heritors. Afterwards four-tenths were furnish-
ed by the country heritor and six-tenths by the town; but by a
late judgment of the Court of Session, it has been decided that
the assessment shall be laid on, one-half on the whole heritable
property, and the other on the means and substance of the haill
inhabitants of the town and parish; and as the town rental consi-
derably exceeds that of the country, the proportion is altered to
rather more than seven-tenths to the town, and less than three-
tenths upon the landward part of the parish. Under the voluntary
mode of assessment, the chief part of the town's share was, at one
period, made up by collections at the church doors of churchmen
and Dissenters; but as matters now stand, there is an assessment
laid on the means and substance of the inhabitants by stent-mas-
ters, appointed to estimate the ability of each rate payer. Under


