
                             KILBRIDE.			     5

tifully, varied outline; on the north and east, the grounds about
the manse, rising in gentle slopes and undulations towards the
hills, intersected by numerous streams and rivulets; on both sides
of the bay, in approaching its two extremities, a line of thick copse-
wood, clothing and sometimes hiding the barrier of precipitous
rocks and cliffs which separate the level ground along the shore,
from the cultivated land above; and everywhere streams with
wood-covered banks, which, along with the plantations on the hill
behind the village, in the romantic glen of Altachorvie, and other
places, gives the bay upon the whole a warm and clothed ap-
pearance. Whitingbay, to the south of Lamlash, is here entitled
also to its own share of notice.  It wants the bold features of the
scenery farther north; but it presents many spots of soft and ro-
mantic beauty, more especially about the glen of Ashdale. Here,
as well as elsewhere along the coast, most eligible spots for neat
and elegant villas are continually meeting the eye; and if it suit-
ed the views of the proprietor to grant building-leases, all these
would soon be occupied. Opulent individuals from Glasgow and
Ayrshire would in a few years ornament the whole line of coast
from Sannox to Largiebeg, with a succession of neat summer ha-
bitations for themselves and families, and make Arran the most
attractive island in the West Highlands.
  Climate.--The climate of the parish is upon the whole mild and
moderate. There is seldom any long continuance of intense heat
in summer; and as seldom of extreme cold and frost in winter.
Goatfell and the neighbouring hills are in winter usually covered
with a mantle of snow. But on the lower grounds in the valleys along
the coast, in the heaviest storms, snow seldom lies more than a
day; and so rarely are there any severe visitations of frost and biting
east winds, that at Arran Castle, and the Whitehouse, many of
the plants of warmer regions stand the whole winter in the open
air. Among these may be mentioned geraniums, myrtles, fuschias,
Calceolaria rugosa, Passiflora caerulea, Camellia, Hydrangea hor-
tensis, and Magnolia grandilflora. It must be acknowledged, how-
ever, that what the parish wants in snow and frost, is abundantly
made up to it in rain; of which few places even in the Hebrides re-
ceive a more liberal share. The prevailing winds are the south and
the west, which almost always bring copious showers along with
them. And from the great bulk and height of the Arran moun-
tains, which attract every cloud from the Atlantic as it passes, they
often come charged with such overwhelming floods, that the nu-
merous mountain torrents swell in an hour's time; often overflow


