
			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.                         583

Rarer Plants occurring in the Shore of the Solway Frith, from
     the Carse to the Water of Orr,-Kirkcudbrightshire.

 Zostera marina, flat rocky pools between Arbigland and Southerness.
 Veronica scutellata, marshy places in Merse at Southerness.
 Ruppia maritima, salt water pools opposite Gillfoot.
 Phlaeum arenarium, the sand hills below Southerness and upper end of
   Colvend rocks.
 Rottbollia incurvata, shore below Southerness.
 Radiola millegrana, Merse below Southerness.
 Samolus valerandi, in the marsh places of Merse at Southerness.
 Glaux maritima, shore, common.
 Sison verticillatum, marshy places of Merse.
 CEnanthe fistulosa, marshes in Merse.
 Crithmum maritimum, (samphire,) Colvend rocks.
 Juncus arcticus, shore opposite Gillfoot,
 Triglochin maritimus, Merse.
 Alisma ranunculoides, marshy places in Merse.
 Arenaria marina, shore and rocks, abundant.
 Lychnis viscaria, Colvend rocks.
 Cakile maritima, beach below Southerness.
 Brassica monensis, abundant on the shore on both sides of Southerness.
 Geranium sanguineum, abundant below Arbigland, and between that and
   Gillfoot.
 Astragalus glycyphyllus, Colvend rocks.
 Vicia sylvatica, on the lower parts of Colvend rocks.
 Sedum telephium, Colvend rocks.
 Schoenus nigricans, Merse.
 Aira aquatica, marshes in Merse.
 Hyperiecum elodes, marshes in the Merse, abundant.
 Carlina valgaris, on the Colvend rocks, common.
 Lactuca virosa, Colvend rocks.
 Inula dysenterica, about Southerness, road sides, &c.
 Pyrethrum maritimum, common on all the rocks.
 Orchis bifolia, on some banks and woods inland.
 Satyrium viride, very abundant on the dry Merse below the lime kilns at
   Southerness.
 Listera ovata, Arbigland woods.
 Ophioglossum vulgatum, in the hollows of unenclosed ground above
   Gillfoot, and in the hollows in Merse between Southerness and lime kiln.
 Botrychium lunaria, on dry ground below lime kiln, Southerness, along
   with Satyrium viride.
 Asplenium maritimum, and A. adiantum nigrum, Colvend rocks, abund-
   ant.


