
     of Campbelton.

lands kept in a state of nature; to which may be added, the
diminution of that political consequence and weight in so-
ciety, which, upon emergencies, he would derive from being
at the head of a number of people, instead of their sleecy
substitutes.  To this it is answered, That a shepherd and
his dog can manage half a parish under sheep, and conse-
quently, that he can afford to give more rent, than a score or
two of farmers, who, following the ancient culture, must main-
tain their families out of its produce.  But they do not consider,
that such families work hard, live upon little, and not only
maintain themselves, but mend the soil, adding not only to its
cultivation, but preserving and upholding the labour of ages
from becoming again a forest or wilderness.  The value of every
estate must arise from its animal and vegetable productions
and if it can be so managed as to produce the nobler animal
man, without diminishing the number of marketable com-
modities, a national as well as local benefit is accomplished.
How easily might this two-fold advantage be effected, even
in the most barren and rugged parts of the Highlands!  Let
the sheep occupy the mountains; but let the valley, or the
narrow plain, bordering upon the stream or rivulet, be given
to the people.  There labour and industry would soon raise
food sufficient, not only to supply their families, but even
the undiminished flock with subsistence.  This is not the
language of mere speculation, but of experience.  A few
years ago, a large estate in the Highlands was, according to
the rage of the times, converted into sheep pasture, and given
in lease to a few rich graziers at an advanced rent.  So much
humanity, however, was shewn to some of the poor people,
who could not provide for themselves elsewhere, that they
were allowed one large farm among them, the rent of which
was advanced, by degrees, to the general standard.  There
they sat down, to the number of about 30 families, and, at


