
166 			 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

gait.'"  This incident happened, we have said, in the time of the
fifth Lord Borthwick, and in the year 1547,-that is to say, at a
period when the principles of the Reformation were in active opera-
tion among all ranks,-and when the ceremonies and power of the
ancient church were beginning to be treated with a license at least
as great as bad been the slavish power with which they previously
had been regarded.  Certainly, at no other time would such an
insult to an officer of the church have been thought of.
  It was during the lifetime of the same Lord, that the beautiful
and unfortunate Queen occasionally visited this castle, and at last
took refuge in it, before she entered on the long series of her hu-
miliatious and griefs.  We find in Cecil's Journal the following
entries respecting her occasional visits. It must be kept in mind
that Bothwell was Lord of Crichton Castle, and that, therefore,
he and the Lord Borthwick, as near neighbours, were likely to
take the part of each other.

   " October 7, 1566. My Lord Bothwell was hurt in Liddis-
dale, and the Queen raid to Borthwich.
   " June 7, 1567.  He (Bothwell) purposed and raid against the
Lord Houme and Fernherst, and so passed to Melrose, and she to
Borthwick.
   " June 11, 1567. The Lords came suddenly to Borthwick;
Bothwell fled to Dunbar, and the Lords retired to Edinburgh,
she followed Bothwell to Dunbar disguised."
   " This," continues Sir Walter, " might, in any ordinary, histo-
rical investigation, seem a sufficient notice of what passed.  But
the history of Mary Stuart is invested with an interest as well as a
mystery which attaches to no other part of Scottish history."--
" The following more minute detail of the anxious moment in
which she escaped from Borthwick is taken from a letter of James
Beaton, the Archbishop of Glasgow, written to his brother, An-
drew, for the information of that active prelate, dated 17th June
1567." The writer, who, had faithfully conveyed to Mary the
news of the disasters that seemed to threaten her, says, that he
found her " so quiet at Borthwick, that there was none with her
passing six or seven persons."
   " Ye sall understand," continues the letter, " how the said
(11th June 1567 day my Lords of Morton, Mar, Hume, Lind-
say, &c. with sundry odderris barronis, to the nommer of nine hun-
dredth or a thousand horsemen, arryvit in the morning about Borth-
wick, in deliberation to comprehend and tak my Lord Duk, wha


