

                             KILMADOCK.               1235

	additional water-power, by which they acquired a fall of 20 feet,
	making the whole fall 33 feet.
	  "An extensive plan of enlargement and improvement was now
	adopted; the works were thriving, and machinery was daily be-
	coming more and more perfect.  In this plan, it was proposed to
	erect eight water wheels in one square building, each to be 36 feet
	in diameter, and 11 feet wide inside, being overshot, and having
	the shrouding and buckets 24 inches deep.  At present four of
	those wheels are in operation, and pedestals have been erected for
	two more.  They are the most gigantic-looking things we ever
	saw, and distribute, by innumerable shafts, the whole of the vast
	concentrated power over the different apartments.  Each wheel
	has a power equal to eighty horses!
	  "The whole of the works are lighted with gas, and they posses-
        sed this advantage so early as 1813, before any of our towns could
	boast the same brilliant light.  Tunnels are made all under ground,
	by which communication can be had with the different depart-
	ments without going out of doors, and every other facility has been
	adopted for carrying on the operations.  Carts proceed daily to
	Glasgow with the produce.  The construction of the various works
	must have cost an enormous outlay of money, and a considerable
	charge annually will be brought against it in the shape of interest;
	but we were informed that the power being once acquired, the
	annual expenditure for management and repairs is small indeed-
	not exceeding, on the average, L.400 per annum.  The steadiness
	of the stream of the Teitb, which flows from Loch Katrine and
	five of her lakes, renders the command of water extremely uni-
	form, and the loss of a few hours' work per day for a week or
	fortnight in the driest period of summer is all the stoppage the
	works ever experience.
	  "The process of manufacture may be described as follows:-
	The bags of cotton, containing each about 300 pounds weight, are
	laid upon the floor in rows, taken out and thrown into at machine
called a Willow, This willow is a revolving cylinder with iron
	teeth, which divides and breaks down the masses.  The materiel
	is then conveyed to another machine-the Angel.  The cotton is
  	then weighed in small portions, spread out, and put into a machine
	which determines and regulates the grist of the thread.  Passing
	through pair of rollers, the cotton is struck by iron beaters (as in
	a thrashing-mill) at the rate of six thousand feet per minute
	The lighter dust is drawn through a revolving wire sieve by the


