
				TAIN.                                  289

the uncivilized state of the country at that period, in that it possessed
not a single available road in this direction,-remains a proof also
of the then loyalty of the people, who hastily repaired to construct
one for the accommodation of their king. Our gratification,
however, is considerably lessened by knowing that the pilgrimage
resulted from the instigation of James's Popish advisers, anxious
to remove him from the influence of any applications that might
be made to him for the life of Hamilton, the Scottish proto-
martyr.
  Historical Documents.-The oldest existing charter of the
burgh of Tain is one granted by James VI. in the year 1587,
followed by another in 1612. A third was afterwards issued by
Charles II. In these we find reference made to former charters
granted by the ancient Kings of Scotland, which, it is said in the
first of James VI. above-mentioned, "were cruelly burnt by bar-
barians and certain rebel subjects of Ireland (per barbaros et quos-
dam rebelles subditos Hiberniae,) as has been manifestly proved to
us by authentic documents produced before us;" and on this fact
are these new grants of confirmation founded. What these au-
thentic documents were, we could have no room for conjecturing,
but for a fortunate discovery made in the year 1826, of a notarial
copy of what we have every reason to believe must have been one
of them, which now lies among the records of the Northern Insti-
tution at Inverness. Its authenticity is unquestionable; for it
bears every internal mark of it. It is an inquest held at Thayne,
on the 20th of April 1439, by a jury of the highest names in the
country, (of which the chief are Alexander of Sutherland, Master
of that Ilk, William Leslie, Sheriff of Inverness, Hugh Ross of
Balnagown, and George Munro of Fowlis,) under the seal of
Alexander Earl of Ross, and Lord of the Isles, King's justiciary
north of the Forth,-for the purpose of ascertaining the antiquity
and privileges of the burgh; which accordingly is found to have
been enfranchised by Malcolm Canmore, and confirmed in its
rights by several of his successors. The inquest having thus taken
place, ten or a most twelve years after the burning of the chapel,
and for a purpose which nothing but the loss of charters could
have rendered necessary; knowing, too, on the authority of King
James that the charters were actually burnt by rebel Irish sub-
jects,*-we are naturally led to identify the two events, and to

<FOOTNOTE>Irish, it is well known, was of old synonymous with Celtic, Just as the Greek
language is still occasionally termed Erae. There can be no objection, therefore to
   ROSS AND CROMARTY.                                     T


