
                 		GREENOCK.		   481

with human nature, who imagines that the accumulation of L. 50
or L.100 in a provident bank by a working-man will induce him
to strike for a rise of wages. We appeal to the working-man
himself, when we say that it is felt to have the very opposite effect.
It places him in the position in which, since the repeal of the
Combination Laws, he ought to stand with reference to his em-
ployer. If the employer knows, and there is no reason for keep-
ing it secret from him, that his workmen have their tens, and twenties,
and fifties in the Provident Bank, he knows that, however strongly
inclined, he dare not reduce their wages below the true market-
price of labour.  On the other hand, a workman in his sound mind,
with mnney in the Provident Bank, will not strike in order to ob-
tain more than that price, with the certainty of exhausting in a few
weeks or months all the little wealth which he has acquired. In
point of fact, the strikers, or at least the originators of strikes, are,
perhaps, without any exception, the reckless and improvident,--
men who have nothing to lose, and who will not think: the sober
and industrious are seldom or never engaged in these combina-
tions.  The cruel and oppressive system of trades unions is, it is
believed, approaching to its dissolution; and the sooner it is dis-
solved, the better for the workmen and their families. Let the
Provident Bank be more generally resorted to, and it will do far
more for the industrious mechanic than trades unions have ever
been able to effect, with this immense advantage, that the me-
chanic, in his struggle with his employer, will not have the pain
of looking on the pale and emaciated faces of his wife and chil-
dren crying to him for bread, whilst he has none to give them.
   The public are deeply indebted to Mr Lamont the cashier, and
the other gentlemen in the direction, for their zeal in promoting
the interests of the bank, and the cheerfulness with which they
devote no small portion of time and labour to the transaction of
its affairs.
   Poor and Parochial Furds.-In the earlier periods of the his-

tory of Greenock, the poor who were dependent on Parochial aid
were few in number; and the revenue from church-door collec-
tions, poclamation of banns, mortcloth-fees, donations, &c. was
more than sufficient for the supply of their wants.  After a care-
ful examination of the records of the kirk-session of the old pa-
rish, it does not appear that any difficulty was experienced in mak-
ing provision for the poor of that parish from the ordinary sour-
ces of revenue, till about fifty years ago, when the population of the


