
14                           RENFREWSHIRE.

He now claimed his reward, and the King, desirous of retaining the
castle and lands of Inch, offered for this inch a span of land any-
where else.  Ross, thanking the King, expressed his satisfaction
with the Inch for present services, and the happiness it would give
him to have the honour of serving his Majesty for the span at some
other time.  Hence, as is alleged, the origin of the rights of the
Hawkhead family to the ancient castle and lands of the Inch.  From
this time, adds tradition, Ross went commonly by the name of
" Palm-my-arm."  Figures of this same knight and his lady, Mar-
jory Mure, lay long under an arch in the church of Renfrew, hav-
ing over them on the circle of the arch the following inscription:
" hic jacet johes: ros miles quodem : dominus de hawkehede et
marjoria uxor sua; orate pro meis, qui obiit."  The statues have
been removed within the aisle, but the inscription may still be read
in the church.  This monument is evidently very old, but proba-
bly somewhat posterior in date to the age of the persons repre-
sented.  When speaking of this monument, however, the old in-
habitants give it no other name than " Palm-my-arm;" while in
relating the anecdote they call Ross Josias, being probably led
into a mistake by the contraction of the name.
   Proceeding from the centre of the circle on the Knock farm, as
already described, and towards a point about two yards and a half
south of the byre door, and at the distance of 134 yards, we come
to the site of another monument.  Sixty years ago an octagonal
column, of about ten feet in height, and inserted in a pedestal of
perhaps six feet in diameter stood here. * It was without any in-
scription, but went commonly by the name of " Queen Blearie's
Stane."  Tradition describes the person meant, to be Marjory
Bruce, daughter of King Robert I., mother of King Robert II.,
and wife of Walter the Steward.  It farther accounts for the mo-
nument, by alleging that she had been hunting, and fell from her
horse at this particular spot,-that she was at the time far advanced
in pregnancy.-that the child was separated from her by a surgical
operation, but at the expense of the mother's life.  A similar account
will be found in " Hamilton's Description of the Shires of Lanark
and Renfrew," and also in two old histories reprinted with it.  And

<FOOTNOTE>To render the exact position of this ancient monument more certain, let the ob-
server look from the point assumed, directly towards Cochney House in Kilpatrick,
and his line of vision will, if his position be correct, pass a few yards west of Inchinan
bridge, and directly over the adjoining drawbridge.  The monument which stood
here at the period referred to, was removed in 1781 or 1782, as near as can be recol-
lected.  The shaft was made the lintel of a barn door, but the farm-steading having
been since rebuilt, it has disappeared.


