
                        ROW.                             73

particulars applicable to it will also be found in the Agricultural
Survey of Dumbartonshire, published in 1811.
  The whole lands now contained within the parish constituted part
of the original earldom of Lennox. Those which form the eastern
coast of the Gareloch, extending into Glenfruin, were given by Al-
wyn, second Earl of Lennox, to his younger son Amelec, in the
twelfth century. This beautiful estate descended to Walter, son of
Alan, the great-grandson of Amelec, who became the male represen-
tative of his house, and who, marrying the heiress of the elder branch,
continued the line of the family. The mansion or castle seems
to have been at Faslane, where the mound may still be distinguished
in the copsewood. Here, according to Blind Harry, Sir William
Wallace was received and hospitably entertained by his gallant
comrade Earl Malcolm, after he had sacked Dumbarton, and laid
the Castle of Roseneath in ashes. We have no notice of Faslane
Castle after the succession of the Faslane branch to the honours
of Lennox, and the estate was by degrees feued out in small por-
tions among a variety of vassals, Towards the northern end of it,
several cadets of the neigbbouring clan Macfarlane thus acquired
lands on the shore of Loch-Long, while the Gareloch side and
Glenfruin gradually became almost a colony of Colquhouns. A
race of small proprietors settled in Glenfruin, and distinguished
by the patronymic surname of Macwalter, pretended to a direct
descent from a younger son of Lennox; but their illustrious blood
does not appear ever to have emerged from obscurity. The only
exception to this description of the bonnet lairds of Row, was the
Macaulays of Ardincaple. Contemporary with the wars of suc-
cession and of independence which followed the death of the
maiden of Norway, were the Ardincaples of that ilk. About two
centuries later, they assumed the patronymic surname of Macaulay,
and, gradually extending and condensing their estate, acquired in
some degree the importance of a clan. Nor was this an empty
distinction in an age when armed men were the most prized pro-
duce of the soil, when military service was the best payment
of mail, and when the muster-roll occupied the place of the rent,
roll. In few parts of Scotland was this more the case than in
Dumbartonshire west of the river Leven. The three clans of
Macfarlane, Macaulay, and Colquboun, plundered each other,or
combined to sweep the low country of its flocks and herds. Dur-
ing the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, the annals of this district
would present a perpetual recurrence of raid and foray, in which


