
556                        FORFARSHIRE.

	The parish appears to have had a "reidar" from the period of
the Reformation; and though it is not expressly said, some entries
would lead us to infer that he acted in the capacity of schoolmas-
ter also. At any rate, on the 18th November 1599, "Mr Tho-
mas Zoung was electit schoolmaister w\pt. cosent of ye haill assem-
blie;" and, on the 16th March 1600, the following provision was
made for his maintenance:-"Item, because ye guid. restan of ye
kirk and commonweill dois not litell depend fra ye deligent up-
bringing of the zouth in lerning and vertew. Therefor, for the
establishing of ane schoolmaister, ordaynis everie pleuch occupyd
be the ownar to paye zeirlie fourtie sh., and be the fermouair 20
sh.; and everie twa marks restrinit to ane pleuch; and sic as has
no labouring to paye for everie bairnie x. sh." This was, however,
either an inadequate aliment, or it was ill paid; for, as a result of
the act of Privy-Council in 1616 (which, unfortunately, was never
property implemented), ordaining every parish to maintain a school-
master, we find the following:-"14 Dec. 1617. The sessione
considering the insufficiencie of ane provisions to the schoolemais-
ter, hes thocht expedient, that of everie baptism he have twa shil-
lings, and of everie marriage fourtie d." And again:-"17 Oct.
1619. As concerning the establishing off the schoolemaister,
thocht meitt and aggreitt upon that, for his intertinement, the
Laird off Grange sould find him ane quarter of ane zeir, and the
minister ane uther quarter and the rest of ye paroche guha hes
bairnes sould provyd for him the uther halff zeir." There are
other entries of a similar import.
	A regular schoolroom, however, was not erected till 1656, the
Presbytery of Dundee having previously perambulated the parish,
and fixed upon a central site for it. When the school was remov-
ed to the most uncentral locality of the vhllage of Monifieth, where
it now is,-is not know. A dwelling-house for the schoolmaster
was not built till 1691. Indead, until 1696, when parochial
scholls were finally estabished by the Legislature, those who held
the office of teacher in the parish appear to have been very inade-
quately remunerated. One person resigned on the ground that
he could not live by the profession.
	The celebrated scholar, David Doig, LL. D. (rector of the
grammar school of Stirling, and an able writer in the Encyclopae-
dia Britannica,) was a native of this parish, and was admitted
schoolmaster in 1749;-and, for several years towards the close of
last century, Mr W. Craighead, the author of a treatise on arith-
metic formerly much in use, held the same situation.


