
			DALRY.                                 215

farious practice, which threatens to exterminate the whole fish in
these waters. Salmon ascend the Garnock, but, owing to the
shallowness of the water in summer, and the existence of a stake
or bag-net fishery at the mouth of the river, few fish are to be
found till near close-time. The salmon ascend to spawn in No-
vember and December, and return in January and February. Great
numbers are destroyed during the spawning season by poachers
principally from Kilbirnie. From the heavy floods in winter, the
spawning beds are greatly injured, and immense quantities of the
spawn are destroyed by the carting away of gravel from the river
during the spawning season.
	Botany.--From the extent and diversity of soils in the parish,
it affords a wide field for botanical research. In the glens of Rye,
Caaf, and Dusk, many uncommon and rare plants are to be found,
although the botany of the parish has not been sufficiently inves-
tigated. The Hypericum Androsaemum is found in the glen of Rye,
along with the Campanula latifolia, and the Epilobium angusti-
folium in abundance on the trap rocks, also the Viburnum Opulus
or guelder-rose, and the Paris quadrifolia. The beautiful Vella
annua or cress-rocket, grows in profusion along the banks of the
Garnock. A little above the junction of that river with the Caaf,
the Senecio saracenicus is found. The beautiful blue Geranium
pratense grows abundantly by the road sides. In addition to the
common blue hyacinth, which adorns every wood and glen, a white
variety is also to be met with. The elegant Narcissus Pseudo-
narcissus are found in the woody banks of the Dusk. A remark-
ably beautiful species of the Rosa canina, or double dog-rose,
grows plentifully on the road side from Dalry to Kilwinning by
Blair. A beautiful species of double meadow ranunculus is found
in the meadows above the Rye. Among other plants are the
following:--Hypericum pulchrum, H. humifusum, Epilobium
parviflorum, Bidens tripartita, Rubus saxatilis, R. suberectus,
Lythrum salicaria, Ajuga reptans, Epipactis latifolia, Trifolium,
medium, Spiraea salicifolia, Circea lutetiana, Lychnis flos-Cuculi
alba, Zanichellia palustris, Barbarea vulgaris, Geranium sylvati-
cum, Tussilago petasites, Luzula maxima, Scirpus sylvaticus, Salix
pentandra, Digitalis purpurea, Agrimonia Eupatoria, Nuphar lutea.
White, red, and blue varieties of the Polygala vulgaris are abundant
in the heathy grounds, as also a white variety of heath. Among the
fungi are noticed, Boletus luteus, Amanita muscaria, and among
the ferns Blechnum boreale. Among the cryptogamous plants


