
                                     GREENOCK.                       437

        Bakers' Society as a flour-mill. Part of No.4. of 10 feet, or 18
        horses' possessed by Mr William Houston as a wool-manufactory,
        spinning, &c. Do. do. of 18 horses, possessed by Messrs A. and
        W. Johnston as an iron foundery. Do. do. of 10 horses, possessed
        by John Poynter as a chemical work. Fall, No. 6. of 19 1/2 feet,
        or 35 horses, possessed bv Mr Thomas Dodson as a rice-mill.
        Fall, No. 7. of 28 feet, or 51 horses, possessed by Muirs, Mar-
        tin, and Co. as a flax-mill, spinning, &c., Fall, No. 18. of 30 feet,
        or 54 horses, possessed by James Walkinshaw and Co. as a paper-
        work.
          Besides the above, there is now erecting on Falls No. 8 and 9,
        of 115 horses, very extensive cotton-works by the Cotton-Mill
        Company; and on part of Fall, No. 11, of 18 horses, a woollen-
        manufactory is now erecting by Mr Robert Houston; and on Fall
        No. 12, of 53 horses, a manufactory for spinning fine wools is now
        erecting by Messrs Neill, Fleming, and Reid.
          A power of 20 horses has also been taken by John Gray, Esq.,
        and another of 20 horses by Mr W. A. Macfie.
          There are still 8 falls unlet on the eastern line of leads, com-
        prising a power, of 386 horses; and the whole of the western line
        is still unopened, which contains the same amount of fall and the
        game power as the eastern line."
          When the whole of the falls shall be possessed and manufacto-
        ries erected on both lines, event perhaps not far distant, there will
        be one of the most singular spectacles presented to the eye, which
        it is possible to imagine. There will be seen from the river, or
        from its opposite bank, an immense crescent or semicircle of ma-
        nufactories with one end of the arch renting on the eastern; the
        other on the western extremity of the townof Greenock; the most
        distant point of its circumference, 500 feet above the level of the
        sea, and the greater part of the space included in this semi-
        circle occupied as corn-fieldr and pasture.
          Whether the increase of our manufactories by these means will
        add to the good morals and real happiness of the people is another
        and an infinitely more important question. On this subject. the
        compiler is happy to learn that the managers of the cotton-works,
        now erecting on Falls No. 8 and 9, far the largest of the works,
        have made it a part of their plan to provide sound religios in-
        struction on a truly liberal scale to the persons, especially the
        young, whom they expect to receive into their employment. It is
        devoutly to be wished that the proprietors of similar establishments
        would follow their example.


