
388                             AYRSHIRE.

	ground consisted of a large field of about forty acres, a great part of
which was a deep morass. Little use could be made of it, as it was
so much on a level with the river, that it was frequently overflow-
ed, and could not be relieved of its superfluous water. By means
of the pipes, this water was conveyed into a deep and extensive tun-
nel, which empties its contents, collected from a variety of quarters,
a considerable way lower down the river. The work has been ad-
mirably well executed, and the advantage resulting from it is great
in point both of productiveness and of beauty.
	The usual duration of leases IS nineteen years.
        There is room for improvement in the farm-buildings or stead-
ings, both of landlords and tenantS. In no situation in Scotland
are hedges more easily and perfectly reared than in this district;
and there is increasing attenthon paid to this species of enclosure.
		           V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	There is only one village in the parish; it has been greatly en-
larged within the last twelve years. All the new houses are built
substantially and in regular order. The town of Girvan is six
miles from the village, Maybole seven, and Ayr sixteen. An ar-
rangement was made, fourteen years ago, under the sanction of
the General Post-Office, by which the letters for the village were
brought every day from the post-town, Maybole; and for the last
five years a branch post-office from Maybole has been regularly
established. The parish is well supplied with roads; on the
north side of the valley, one turnpike-road extends about five miles;
another runs through the valley, and along the south side, about
six miles and a half. From these, three other turnpike-roads
branch off to the right and left for a mile or two. A coach passes
and repasses through the parish on Friday, on its route between
Girvan and Ayr. There are three public bridges and one pri-
vate bridge across the Girvan; and there is a number of other
bridges across smaller streams. Some of them have been erected
at great expense, for the sake of the new lines of road which were
lately formed. All are at present in good condition, and from the
attention paid to the state of the roads, are likely to be kept in
thorough repair.
	Ecblesiastical State.--The parish church stood originally at Old
Dailly, about three miles from its present site, but was removed in
1696 to the village of New Dailly, a very centrical situation for
all the inhabitants. The present fabric was built in 1766, and is
in good repair. It will accommodate 650 persons. In 1835 a



