
                         MEARNS.                           523

which it may be procured, and the excellence of the roads.  Mr
Wilson in his "View of the Agriculture of Renfrewshire," some-
what artificially divides its soil and surface into high, middle, and
low.  If we adhere to his division, we must place the Mearns in
the high district, which lies on gravel and rock, and contains in
all about 101,578 English acres.  Except when the soil is very
alpine, there is everywhere a thick covering of excellent herbage
mixed with Trifolium repens, and other rich and valuable accom-
paniments of good pasture.  But the farmers here are also well
skilled in the higher and more scientific branches of the agri-
culturist's art, in levelling, straightening, and laying out the crook-
ed ridges into more profitable shapes, and more sightly forms, and
also in draining and manuring.  Formerly the farmers in this dis-
trict began their operations at or about a stated period, and that
period was in general too late in the season.  The late Mr War-
ner of Kilbarchan had the merit of first pointing out the mistake,
and now it is very generally remedied.  The dairy cows are all of
the Ayrshire breed, are finely formed, and of the best sort.  But-
ter and buttermilk are here manufactured in a style not surpassed
in any other district in the west of Scotland.  The Mearns but-
ter is farmed in Glasgow and Paisley, and families are anxious to
lay in their winter butter, the veritable produce of the celebrated
dairies of the Mearns.  In the farming operations, summer-fallow-
ing is not much practised. Instead of this, the ground has long
been better prepared by planting it with potatoes or green crops.
The potatoes thrive excellently here, yielding often 200 stones to
an acre, or 260 or 280 for a succession of years.  Turnips are not
so much cultivated as they might be. The grain chiefly raised is
oats and bear; some little barley, and also wheat, beans and peas.
The latter are now not so much sown as formerly, especially since
the introduction of ryegrass and pulse, which some suppose to be
unfavourable to the cultivation of pulse.  The average rent of
land is L. 1, 6s. per acre, although some properties rent as high
as L. 2, 4s. and even much higher.
   Manufactures.--There are pretty extensive cotton works at Bus-
by, which were first erected there in 1780.  There are also a
printfield and bleachfield at Wellmeadow, and a printfield at Ne-
tber Place.
                   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The principal village in the parish is Newtown, situated about
half-a-mile north-west from the parish church.  It is a burgh of


