
	                         LOTH.                           193

	one of the fishermen who came from an infected quarter -near
	Edinburgh.
           Hydrography.-The Moray Frith, the Estudriu'm Vararis of
	Ptolemy, and the Breidofiord of the Northern sagas, is here a'
	wide and stormy sea, without any islands. The projecting and
	bluff headland of the Ord affects the currents along the shore;
	and these currents, in the opinion of many practical fishermen, in-
	fluence and direct the progress and course of those shoals of her-
	rings which annually visit this coast; and hence, a continuance of
	the success which. has attended the herring fishery at Helmsdale,
	since it has been regularly prosecuted there, may be found to rest
	on more certain and durable causes than are generally supposed to
	exist. The saltness of thesea water off the Ord has been analyzed, and
	it has been ascertained to be much greater than that of water taken at
	Tarbartness, at the opening of the Dornoch Frith; while the water
	at the latter point contains about double the quantity of salt found in
	water taken within tbe Frith, between the towns of Dornoch and Tain.
	There are now no lakes within the parish, and the only rivers are those
	of the Glen of Loth and the Helmsdale, which last flows for about
	three miles along or within the parish, before it enters the sea at
	Helmsdale. The Helmsdale is a large and handsome stream;
	but, having had no bridge across it until 1811, it retarded travel-
	lers; and Pennant, in his tour in the northern counties in 1769,
	records, that he had to ``ford the very dangerous water of Helms-
	dale, rapid and full of great stones."
	   Geology.-The high hills of the parish present a steep front to
	the south, and are of primary formation, being composed of por-
	pbyritic granite, chiefly of a brown colour, but often reddish and
	sometimes gray.  This stone is fragile, and, as it cannot be quar-
	ried in large blocks, or formed into well-proportioned shapes,
	it is of little use for building. This stone is also distinguished
	by different degrees of coarseness in its grains, and by the pre-
	sence of veins or a large size. Thus, in the bed of the river
	Helmsdale, close to the march with Kildonan, a fine-graine por-
	phyry occurs; and at Lothbeg, and thence to the west end of the
	parish, the same rock is a very rude compound with large veins,
	in which felspar predominates, and which yield readily to the ac-
	tion of running water.
	   In Mr Cunningham's Geognostical Account of the County of
	Sutherland, published in the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture,
        No. 46, that gentleman includes the coast side, or low-lying sec-
	tion of this parish, as part of the district in which the, oolite, se-


