
                                   METHVEN.                             143

           lis Wester, and on the south, by a small stream, called the Pow,
           which separates it from the parishes of Madderty, Findo Gask,
           and Tibbermore.  We h`ve said chiefly on the north, because the
           Almond runs through part of the parish in that direction; the lands
           which constituted the original estate of Lynedoch (more properly
           Lednoch) forming part of this parish, are situated on the north
           bank of that river.
              Topographical Appearances.-There is neither hill nor lake of
           any note in the parish, but the surface is agreeably diversified by
           hollows and rising ground, and as the higher parts are in general
           tastefully laid out in patches of thriving plantation, the landscape
           effect in many instances is highly creditable to the taste and skill
           of the proprietors.
              Soil.-The soil consists principally of clay, but there are tracts
           of considerable extent, both of loam and gravel, with moorish soil,
           recumbent on a tilly bottom.  With the exception of 100 acres of
           moss, and about 250 acres of moor, the land in the parish is all either
           in a state of cultivation, or under plantations.  There is a tract of up-
           wards of 1000 imperial acres towards the north part of the parish,
           which, until about forty years ago, was a common; but soon after
           that time, it was divided among the heritors and feuars in the pa-
           rish, and is now in a comparatively high state of cultivation.  Here,
           now, several farm-steadings are erected, and many families decent-
           ly and respectably supported, and wealth is now derived from, and
           comfort enjoyed upon, this extensive tr`ct of ground, which was
           formerly a perfect waste.  So much for the spirit of enterprise and
           the hand of industry.
              Climate and Diseases.- The climate may be said to be mild and
           salubrious, especially towards the south, for the lands in the parish
           in general have a southern exposure; but in the northern parts,
           the climate is not so genial, evidently on account of their greater
           elevation above the level of the sea, and of their proximity to the
           Grampians, from which the boundary of this parish on the north-
           west is not farther distant than a mile and a half.  It is evident,
           however, that the climate here has undergone a very material im-
           provement since the year 1793, when the former Statistical Ac-
           count was written, both from the agricultural improvements effect-
           ed since that period, by the important operations of draining, and
           not less so, from the great extent of land in the parish, nnw cover-
           ed with thriving plantations, which was then in little else than a
           state of bleak barrenness.


