
524                      RENFREWSHIRE.

barony, and has the right of holding a weekly market, and two
annual fairs.  It contains about 500 or 600 inhabitants, and is
formed chiefly of two rows of houses on the Glasgow and Ayrshire
road, with a good inn. The centre of the parish is about eight
miles both from Glasgow and Paisley.  This district was long
destitute of good roads. Even so late as 1770, lime, coals, grain,
and other bulky articles were generally conveyed on horses' backs.
It is only since 1792 that good roads began to be known here.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church contains about 600
sittings, is in good repair, and is centrically enough situated. The
glebe contains about 4 acres.  A new manse is at present being
built. The expense will be about L.1300. About L.1653, 7s.
was raised by assessment on L.4725, 6s. 6d. Scots money--the
additional sum going for repairs on the parish school-house.  There
is what was formerly termed an Antiburgher-meetingbouse at New-
ton.  It was first built in 1743, but has lately been completely re-
erected.  It has a glebe of five acres.
   Education.--The parish school-room is one of the largest and
airiest of any in the west of Scotland. Mr Jackson, the very able
and excellent teacher, has long laboured with much success in his
very important and useful sphere as parochial teacher. Accord-
ing to the last official returns, the number of children attending
the parish school was 103--attending other schools, 150.   The
branches taught in the parish school are, Latin, geography, arith-
metic, English grammar, reading and writing. The salary of the
parochial teacher is L.34, 4s., school-fees L.63, with L.4 annual-
ly from other sources.  There is a school at Busby, and a small
country school besides.  There are few, if any, natives above fif-
teen years of age who cannot read the Scriptures, and who have
not been taught to write.
   Poor.--There is no parochial assessment.  At one period An-
drew Sim, heritor, left 1000 merks to the poor of the parish. At
present they are chiefly supported by donations and collections at
the church door.
   Alehouses.--There are a few of these in the parish, principally
connected with the thoroughfares and the public works.
   Fuel.--This essential article is obtained in abundance from the
adjacent coal districts, at a moderate rate.

   January 1842.


