
                           DRUMOAK.                       895

centre of the parish.  The Aberdeen and Braemar turnpike road
passes through the whole length of the parish, an extent of six
miles, along which the Aberdeen and Ballater mail-coach runs
daily, and, in the summer months, a stage-coach between Ban-
chory and Aberdeen.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The Bishop's see having been translated
from Mortlach to Aberdeen by King David I. in 1154, Bishop
Edward instituted a college of canons, which was apostolically con-
firmed by Pope Adrian IV. anno 1157, in whose bull (already
referred to) there is mentioned among the other churches of the
bishopric, "Ecclesiam dd Dulmayok cum pertinentiis suis." *  In
1368, Bishop Kinynmond II. added the pastor of Drumoak to
the chapter of the cathedral, "ad instantiam discreti viri magistri
Johanis de peblis;" + and in a list of the value of the different pre-
bends made by Bishop Ingram in 1448, the last entry is "Dul-
mayk X lb." +
   The former parish church was very inconveniently situated for
the inhabitants, being placed upon the extreme point of a narrow
strip of land which protrudes along the side of the river into Pe-
terculter.  There is no record nor traditionary account of the time
at which that house of God was erected, but when abandoned, in
1837, it was probably about three hundred years old.  Within its
gray ruin is the tombstone of Mr David Lindsay, elder, who was
minister of this parish at different periods between 1654 and
1702; and near it, upon the adjoining wall, is another, which
marks the grave of his successor, the inscription on which is al-
most obliterated by the hand of time.  The surrounding church-
yard (considering the circumstances of the parish) contains many
grave-stones, the epitaphs on which are in general simply but well
expressed; and one, which is in excellent preservation, bears the
date of 1634.
   The present church, which is situated nearly in the centre of
the parish, was founded in the spring of 1835, and opened for
public worship on the 13th November 1836.  It is built in the
Gothic style, from a design by Mr Archibald Simpson, architect
in Aberdeen, and is finished in so neat, comfortable, and even ele-
gant a manner, that it is the best specimen in this part of the
country of what a parochial church ought to be.  The expense of
its erection was L.1002, 14s. 2d.; and it is calculated to contain
about 630 sitters, allowing 18 inches to each.  The seats are all

<FOOTNOTE>Chartulary, fo. 43.
     Epistolare, fo. 168.
     Chartulary, fo. 26.


