
     966                         FIFESHIRE.

     it and Lord Lindsay concerning their respective rights. To pre,
     vent law-suits, a compromise was entered into in 1630, by which
     the town's right to the collegiate church and place called the col-
     lege, with the riaht of patronage, was confirmed; but its clairn to
     emolument was expressly restricted to the tithe fish, and the rents,
     fees, and duties which had been the especial property of the pro-
     vost and prebendaries.  The parsonage and vicarage tithes, ex-
     cepting the tithe fish, were declared to remain with his Lordship
     and his successors.  In 1774-6, the question concerning the
     right of patronage to the parish church was tried. By an interlo-
     cutor of the Lord Ordinary, it was givdn against the town, and the
     Earl of Crawford, as successor to Lord Lindesay, considered as
     undoubted patron.  The Earl of Glasgow is now patron, as repre-
     senting the Earl of Crawford.
       It is proper to mention that in this church John Knox preached
     and excited tbe'People to begin the work of abolishing the monu-
     ments of idolatry in Fife, In reference to this, Grierson the his-
     torian of St Andrews, says, "John Knox, on Sunday the 29th of
     May 1559, preached a sermon At the town of Crail, in which be
     represented the favourers of Popery as guilty of the heinous sin of
     idolatry, and their churches as containing the monuments of it,
     namely, pictures and images.  The effect of his eloquence was
     such, that the populace immediately, rose, and in a very sbort
     time demolished all the churches in Crail, Anstrutber, and the
     other adjacent towns along the sea coast.  They then proceeded
     to St Andrews, where the preacher delivered another sermon Of
     the same sort on Sunday the 5th of June; and the effect of it was
     similar to that which bad before taken place at Crail, for the in-
     furiated mob set instantly about demolishing the superb cathedral
     church, plundered both the monasteries of the Black and Greyfriars,
     and razed these edifices to the ground."
       Spottiswood says, "John Knox preached a sermon at Crail, and
     persuaded the expulsion of the French.  The people were so
     moved by his,exercitation, that they immediately set about pulling
     down altars, images, and every thing which had been abused to
     idolatry ; and did the same next day at Anstruther, and from
     thence came to St Andrews."
       Besides the religious houses already mentioned, there was, no
     doubt, a cell or chapel dedicated to St Minin or Monan at
     Kilminning farm; the corn-yard of which is still full of grave,
     like a regular burying-ground.

