
                  BLAIR-ATHOLL.                            575

accounts, and settle any other parochial business in which they
have an interest. The number of paupers is about 70, consisting
mostly of aged unmarried women, or widows from whom their
children have withdrawn their support. The funds are not dis-
tributed according to any stipulates rate, but according to the
urgency of the case. The funds arise from the following sources,
and in 1835 amounted to,--- Church collections, L. 32, 8s. 4d.; in-
terest of L. 193 capital, L. 7, 17s. 4d.; mortcloth dues, fines, &c.
L. 4, 10s.; total, L. 44, 15s. 8d.
     There is a mortification of twelve bolls of meal for six old men,
four bolls from Blair, and eight bolls from the lands of Urrard.
The benefit of this charity is confined to aged poor men, resident
upon the Atholl estate in the parish. Each of them bad a free
house and garden in the village of Blair. When that village was
removed in 1750 by James Duke of Atholl, the bede-men were
removed from it, and 6s. 8d. was assigned to each as house-rent,
which continues to be regularly paid. There is also a mortification
upon the lands of Blair, of 13s. 4d. each to two old men. As to
the origin or history of either mortification, no information can now
be procured.
     The heritors have always given pecuniary aid to the kirk-ses-
sion when required. If non-resident heritors do not contribute
voluntarily to the poor's funds, recourse must inevitably be had to
assessment, when property will be severely taxed, and the condi-
tion of the poor rather worsened. That there is an encreasing
outcry among the poor for pecuniary relief, and that they are well
aware of their legal rights, are facts which it would be wrong to
conceal. And it must be confessed, that the shame which attach-
ed to the receiving parochial aid, now acts but seldom as a re-
straint upon their claim even for a trifling suppor. The tenantry
of the country are charitable in a high degree. They give alms
of meal, and "of such things as they have," to the poor of the pa-
rish with the greatest liberality, and also to hosts of wandering
beggars from the south, by whom they are heavily oppressed.
     Fairs.---The fairs held in the parish are as follows: Blair Atholl
(general business) Feburary 2d. Ditto (cattle and horses) May,
third Wednesday. Bridge of Tilt (cattle) August 2otb O. S.
Ditto (Ditto) June 25th. Trinafour (horses) March, third
Tuesday O. S. Ditto (cattle) October, Wednesday before Falkirk.
     Inns.---Upon the great Inverness road within the parish, there
are three excellent inns, viz. Bridge of Tilt, Blair, and Dalna-


