

                        SALTON.                           113

the memory of the good bishop is still perpetuated in the pa-
rish. The children on the fund are familiarly termed "bishops;"
and the gallery in church appropriated for their use has receiv-
ed, and is ever likely to retain, the appellation of "the Bishop's
laft."
   Burnett lived until 1715, having then filled the see of Salisbury
for Dearly twenty-six, years.
   Salton was also the birthplace and residence of another character
of distinguished eminence. The celebrated Andrew Fletcher, the
intrepid assertor of the civil and religious independence of his coun-
try, was born here in 1653 His father, who died while his son was
yet in early youth, committed him, on his deathbed, to the guar-
dianship of Burnett, then minister of the parish, from whom it is
supposed the young patriot first imbibed those liberal sentiments
on government which he ever afterwards avowed. In them, how-
ever, he seems subsequently to have outstripped his teacher. The
character of this undoubtedly great man has been variously repre-
sented: by some he has been described as a rank republican, whose
projected limitations of the royal prerogative were only designed
to lead to the erection of a Scottish commonwealth, and whose
opposition to the union was prompted by selfish and interested
motives. By others, he is represented as a man of pule and dis-
interested patriotism, whose sole object was to maintain the liber-
ties of his country on a constitutional basis. This is not the place
to attempt to adjust the merits of the controversy. His sentiments
unquestionably, verged towards republicanism, but to this extreme
they were naturally led to tend, from the impression he entertain-
ed, that the opposite and equally dangerous extreme was more like-
ly to obtain the ascendant. The purity of his motives and the
integrity of his conduct are unquestionable. His anticipations of
evil as the result of the union, subsequent events have happily
shewn to be fallacious. * He died at London in 1716, on his way
from France to Scotland, whither he had fondly hoped to have ar-

<FOOTNOTE>  The children, however, are mostly exemplary in their attendance, and only one or two
instances of the infliction even of the lesser penalty have occurred. There are at pre-
sent on the fund sixteen male and eight female children, varying in age from seven
to fourteen.
     From an MS. in the library of the late Thomas Rawlinson, Esq., first published
in the edition of Fletcher's Political Works, printed at Glasgow in 1749, we quote
the following brief and somewhat quaint description of this personal appearance: "A
low thin man, of a brown complexion, full of fire, with a stern sour look, and fifty
years old."
    HADDINGTON.                                H



