
	288                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	and rising to the height of several hundred feet. The various re-
	cesses and projections of this remarkable place render it, from
	whatever point it is viewed, a scene highly grand and picturesque.
	While a fog happens to sweep the bosom of Storr, appearances
	like those of lofty spires, walls, and turrets are seen emerging
	in majestic forms from the driving mists.
	   The valleys or glens, of which there are three, Glenhaltin,
	Glenhinistil, and Glen Uigg, besides abounding with excellent
	pastures, on which a vast number of sheep and cattle are reared,
	contain large tracts of arable land. The last of these strongly
	suggests the idea of its having been formerly a lake, the waters of
	which escaped by wearing a channel to themselves, and left the
	bottom dry.
	   The shore is bold and rocky, except at the heads of the lochs,
	or bays, where it is low and sandy. From Loch Snizort, which
	partly intersects the parish, a number of small bays or lochs branch
	off in every direction. Of these the bay of Uigg deserves parti-
	cular attention. It is a circular basin, opening to the west, and
	is upwards of a mile and a half in circumference.  About five or
	six hundred yards from the edge of the water; the ground, rising
	with steep ascent, extends in the form of a semicircle round the
	head of it, and encloses a level space of more than two hundred
	acres of arable land of the finest description. This may be said
	to be one of the most interesting places in Skye. Within the
	area of this natural amphitheatre, more than six hundred people
	live together as in a hamlet.
	   Climate.-The parish partaking of an insular situation, its sum-
	mers are cooler and its winters less severe than in inland situations
	of the same latitude. Snow seldom remains longer than a few days
	on the ground near the shore. The sky is generally clouded, and
	overcast with vapours wafted from the bosom of the Atlantic
	Ocean, and these descend in such constant rains, as to interrupt
	the labours of the husbandman. The soil is naturally cold and
	moist. In seasons uncommonly wet sowing is late, and the
	progress of the crop to maturity is retarded; and a late
	season is generally attended with the evils of scarcity, and
	even with famine. The most prevalent winds are the west and
	the south-west. The east and north-east winds are distin-
	guished by their dryness. From the moist state of the climate,
	the people are subject to inflammatory complaints, diseased action


