
                         TIREE AND COLL.                        217

and conveving fuel from the neighbouring islands, and 82 fishing-
skiffs, of which only 10 are, regularly employed.
   In Coll, there are 2 decked vessels from-eighteen to twenty-
five tons; three open or half-decked boats from six to twenty tons
and 12 fishing-skiffs, of which none is regularly employed

<TABLE>
                          In Tiree.	    In Coll.	Total.

	Decked vessels,		4	.	 2      .	   6
	Half,decked,		20	.	 3      .	  23
	Fishing-skiffs,		82    .     12      .     94

		           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in the parish, the nearest to which
that name may be applied being Oban, which is fifty-six miles dis-
tant.  Nor is there any thing to be called a village, if we may ex-
cept Arinangour in Coll, which contains 171 inhabitants.
   Means of Communication.  There is a sub-post-office to To
bermory, both in Tiree aud Coll; but there has been no packet in
either island for some years.  Our means of communication are
accordingly extremely irregular and uncertain, depending on any
casual conveyance which may occur.  A tolerable packet to To-
bermory might be kept up for L.45 or L.50 per annum. The
Duke of Argyle used formerly to allow L.15 to assist for this
purpose; and it is understood that the General Post-Office was
willing to allow all the revenue derived from the office here.
   In addition to many inconveniences incident to a remote lo-
cality, the harbours, which are of primary importance in all in-
sular situations-are here but very indifferent; in consequence of
which, all the boats in Tiree, great and small, are batiled
up high and dry durino, four months in the year, or from the,
end of November to the end of March. During this time; the.
island is nearly locked up from all intercourse with other coun-
tries, unless it is found necessary to launch a light skiff occasion-
ally, when a good day occurs.  The harbour chiefly frequented,
and where the cattle and most of the other produce are shipped
off, is Scarinish, situated on the south-east side of the island.  It
is but a narrow creek, with a rock at its entrance sometimes cover
ed with water, which renders the access very difficult, and the
egress still more so, except with a favourable wind a pier has
been long built there, but it is scarcely capable of ever  being
made a secure place.  The only other harbour is Accarsaid.
or "the Harbour," (so called, I suppose by way of eminence,)
lying near the eastern extremity. It is, reckoned safer than:"
first; but the entrance to it is extremely rocky and intricate,and
should never be attempted by strangers.  I have already noticed,


