
	                    PAISLEY.                         183

all to go "to the kirk," and "no business to be done" during
time of sermon.
   16 January.-"No women to keep school" in the town; and
none of them "to receive men children."
   1653, March 28.-Isobel Greenlees is appointed to stand two
hours in the jugs; and to pay a fine of 40s. for "cursing the baillie."
   The following extract will shew that the burgesses at this Pe-
riod were not inattentive to the duty of asserting their rights and
privileges:-
   1655 March 9.-"John Wilson, weaver, and his wife, having
asked and obtained liberty of Lady Cochran, or the Master of
Cochran, to bleach cloth on the green, under the chambers," (of
the Abbey mansion-house,) he is conveined before the baillies, and
having acknowledged he had liberty to set up a knocking-stane,
which the lady or master bad driven down, (and thus established
the right of the Dundonald family,) he was put in jail till his wife
drove down the stane:  goe and disclaim the libertie sought; and
pay a fine of 5 punds."
   April. 9.-The whole council go to the "green," and make a
"civil interruption" of the claims of her ladyship and the master.
   18th July 1659.-"The quhilk day the two present baillies,
William Greenlees, and John Park, old baillies, are appointed to
buy a drum for the use of the town."
   April 9, 1660.-"Report John Park, baillie, that as he was
appointed, he went to Edinburgh and sought all the booths where
there is any velvet, and found nane three piled, and that the two
piled was so bad and thin, that he could not buy it for a mort-
cloth."
   13th September 1660.-"This day John Kelso has produced
before the other baillies and counsell, the towns twa pair of colours,
that was taken away by these who were called Tories, and, were re-
deemed from some of them by Robert Semple, merchant burgess
of Glasgow, and the sum given therefor formerly paid to the said
Robert Semple, by the said baillies, by allowance of the council,
and is now put in the common chest."'
   1660, December 22.-"The whilk day the baillies and coun-
sell foresaid, have concluded that there sall be four dozen of
trenchours, and ane dozen of new cups sent to Sir John Gilmour,
and SirJohn Fleshour, the King's Advocate, to move them to con-
tinue the town's friends."

RENFREW.                                    M


