

                                   PERTH.                       111

       out of the common goond for his m`intenance, with the promise
       that the sum shall revert to the common good when the popula-
       tion shall so far diminish that one church shall be sufficient for the
       accommodation of the inhabitants.
         Accordingly that portion of the Old Church which had been se-
       parated from ht, some time before the beginning of the seventeenth
       century, * and which had, for a few years before this, been occasion-
       ally used as a place of worship, was fitted up to be an additional
       church.  Mr Wilson preacher of the Gospel, was presented, called,
       and ordained accordingly, November 1, 1716.  From that time
       till 1740 there were thus three ministers.  But in that year Mr
       Wilson having been found guilty of following divisive courses, was
       deposed, and no one was,appohnted to succeed him.  Matters re-
       verted to what they were previous to 1715,-only the two ministers
       preached alternately in the two churches.
         In 1771, the choir or east end of the edifice was separated from
       the old church, as the west had been, and converted into a third
       church.  An additional minister thus becoming necessary, an or-
       dained assistant was appointed.  But it was not deemed expedient
       that each should have his own distinct church.  The three there-
       fore observed a rotation, making the round of the churches every
       three weeks.  This unedifying and uncomfortable practice con-
       tinued till the year 1807, when the town-council with the two mi-
       inisters, the landward heritors, and the presbytery, applied to the
       Lords of Session, and obtained a decreet disjoining + the parish,
       and erecting it into four.  A fourth church being thus required,
       it was accordingly, in conformity with the condition of the decreet,


       <FOOTNOTE>The particular purpose to which it was originally appropriated is unknown.  But,
       as appears in the city records, it was in 1604 in a state to require repair.  In 1608. a
       general meeting of the inhabitants was held in it to raise the funds for the bridge which
       was builtling.  In Febru`ry 1618, the council issued an order to red the house where
       the guns lay in the new (West) Kirk, to receive the corps of Lady Montrose, mend the
       lock and key, and to lay the guns in the north side of the said kirk," In the same year,
       August 25, the General Assembly of the church was held in it; when, through the bully-
       ing nd threatening of James, the famous five Perth articles were passed.  In 1628 the
       convention of burghs took place in it, preparatory to which the great west vindow was
       repaired.  In 1654, "a room was divided off in it for the purpose of holding courts."
       In 1671, the Justiciary Court met in it.  The seat erected for the judges cost nearly
       L. 173, 12s.  In 1684, the council gave license to the Marquis of Athole to hew stories
       in it.
         From the time when it became one of the city churches, 1716 till 1771, neither bap-
       tism nor the Lord's supper was dispensed in it.   These sacraments were dispensed in thep
       Old (Middle) Church only.  It was not till 1772 that these ordinances were dispensed
       in all the three churches, Middle, West, and East.
         + The city record for 1603 contain an order to speak to the Laird of Weem to stand
       the town's favourer and friend in their adoes, and specially anent the division of the Ses-
       sion in Edinburgh, to see hf the same may be had "in our town."


