
                    DUNOON AND KILMUN.                       601                  601

sequent to the period when it was the scene of the cruelties set
forth in this indictment.
   In ecclesiastical antiquities the parish is not particularly rich.
Besides the churches of Dunoon and Kilmun, there was but one
chapelry, of which any traces remain. This was dedicated to the
Virgin, and situated on the farm of Toward-an-uillt. *
   The ecclesiastical establishment of Dunoon appears to have
been but an ordinary parochial one; though popular tradition
places an Episcopal residence there. There is no evidence extant,
so far as known to the writer, that any of the bishops of the olden
time had their residence here. Certain graves are pointed out in
the burying-ground as those of bishops, and the fact is not im-
probable. They appear but of comparatively late date, and the

<FOOTNOTE>There is a special interest traditionally connected with its place of sepulture
(now-scarcely discernible), from its containing the grave of MacGregor of Glenstrae,
whose burial occurring here is connected with a story of the times, indicating that,
as they were periods of anarchy and blood, neither were they without their manifes-
tations of a natural generosity. The Lamont of the day occupying the Castle of
Toward, had gone, during his early life, on a hunting excursion, and to visit
MacGregor of Glenstrae. The only son and child of this MacGregor, a youth of
Lamont's own age, was his companion in the forest during the visit, and, accom-
panied by the necessary number of MacGregor's retainers, they bad occasion to spend
a winter's night in some cave or shelter, no uncommon practice among Highlanders
of the time when following the chase. During the night, unhappily, the two had a
quarrel, when the young MacGregor fell, mortally wounded, under the sword or the
dirk of Lamont. Lamont, as may be supposed, betook himself to flight, to evade the
immediate vengeance of MacGregor's retainers. Wandering in the dark, and a
stranger in the bounds where he wandered, espying a light, he made for it, and did
not, in his perturbation, perceive till he had entered the house, that it was the house
of the father whose only son had fallen, but a few hours before,-the victim of his
unhappy anger. The old MacGregor intuitively perceived, by the perturbation of
Lamont, what it was that had happened. To his honour he commanded his feel-
ings, and said to Lamont, "Here, this night, shall you be safe." On the retainers
arriving, Lamont was protected from their fury by the bereaved and heart-stricken,
but manly and generous father. During the night he accosted Lamont, and address-
ing himself to a journey, commands Lamont to follow him, and conducting him from
his residence of Glenstrae, near Glenorchy, across hill and mountain, till they arrived
at the place of D-n-da-r...mh on Lochfine; -MacGregor secures a boat and cars for
Lamont to ferry him across to Cowal-"Go," said he, " flee for your life-land in
your own country, and there shall we pursue you-save yourself if you can.' For
many years, Lamont, having escaped the vengeance of the bereaved father and clan,
was safe in his castle at Toward. Events of a different kind pursued the bereaved
MacGregor of Glenstrae. By rapacious and more powerful neighbours, he was not
only stripped of his lands, but pursued as a culprit under show of offended justice,-
the common stratagem of the times on the part of powerful and unprincipled oppres-
sors.  MacGregor made for Cowal and for the Castle of Toward, and,arriving there.
forsaken scathed by the world, he sought protection and refuge from Lamont. This
was most cordially and heartily granted. 'Die venerable and bereaved MacGregor of
Glenstrae lived for years the guest of LAmont,-the one forgiving, the other joyful
not only in the forgiveness received, but in the power of shielding and cherishing his
venerable deliverer. The aged man breathed his last in peace under the roof of La-
Inont, and was buried, as tradition revorts. with all the bonour due to his rank, and
his grave is still pointed out in this burying-ground, or very, recently was, by the
aged inhabitants of tbe district.


