
                          OLD MONKLAND.                       643

   8th. The Virtue-well, or sour-milk coal, from 2 to 4 feet thick,
occurs from 26 to 28 fathoms below the splint.
   9th. The Kiltongue coal lies 22 fathoms below the Virtue-well,
and like it is from 2 to 4 feet in thickness.
   10th. The Drumgray coal lies 6 fathoms below the Kiltongue,
and perhaps from 60 to 100 fathoms above the first or upper band
of limestone.  It is seldom more than 18 or 20 inches thick.
There are besides these ten seams about twenty-three smaller
seams between them, none of which are of a workable thickness.
The total thickness of the coal measures above the lime may be
about 775 feet.
   This large and important coal-field is much intersected with
dikes, and a knowledge of these is a knowledge of the strata, and
of the manner in which they are affected by them.  The first
dike that throws in the Monkland seams on the south, runs through
the lands of Rosehall, Tannochside, Britishholm, and Calder
Park, where it is seen in the burn, and then through the lands of
Mount Vernon, where it throws down the coal, and throws in the
large field of Rosehall, Birthwood, Britishholm, and Mount Ver-
non.  2. To the north of the above, a large dike comes from
Newarthill, and throws in the coal in Faskin, Palace Craig, Kairn-
hill, Garnturk, Lower Coats, Drumpellier, Keelliill, and termi-
nates at Easter House.  This terminates the Monkland field to
the west.  3. Still farther to the north, a third dike enters the
parish on the east, at Kippsbyre, passes the lands of Raw by
Sommerlee Iron-Works, by the south side of Gartsberrie estate,
and then running towards Bishop Loch, it throws in Kippsbyre,
Gargunnock, and Gartsherrie fields.  The splint coal is found as
far north as Gartcloss, after which it and its accompanying strata
do not come in again in	that direction.  4. Another downthrown
dike to the north passes through the estate of Gartsberrie, and
throws in the Gartgill and Gartecloss fields.  This forms the
northern boundary of the Monkland seams,
   The following will afford a pretty correct idea of the statistics
of the coal workings in this district.  The coal pits now in actual
operation, or now sinking, with their depths, and the seams of
coal found in them, are nearly asfollows,-leaving it, howeve, to
be understood, that since the following list was taken, various new
pits have been begun, so that every week almost	brings with it
some new improvements and new workings.
   Gartsherrie.-It is of no consequence where we begin, provided


