
                           MID-CALDER.                    367

January 1563. The original charter in his person carries the ba-
ronies of Torphichen, Liston, Ballintrodo, Thankerton, Denny,
Maryculter, &c., with all their superiorities, pre-eminences, dig-
nities, and offices, possessed "tanquam preceptores de Torphi-
chen." By this charter, the family of Sandilands became heredi-
tary Peers of Parliament; but, as the ancient honour was never
personal, but had been attached to the fief by immemorial usage,
like the earldom of Arundel in England, which is vested in
the inheritance of the Castle and Lordship of Arundel; so the
title of Torphichen thus became a territorial honour, declared, by
an act of Charles I, to subsist in the mean portion of the mes-
sage of the Lordship and Barony of Torphichen. The Barony,
in this manner, carries the Peerage along with it; and the re-
mainder of this property has therefore still been retained by this
noble family. According to Mr Riddell, the author already re-
ferred to, from whose researches several of these facts respecting
this family have been selected, this barony, by the charter of 1463,
is destined to heirs and assigns; and, in the event of that succes.
sion opening to a female, that female would be Baroness of Tor-
phichen. From Spottiswood's "Religious Houses," under the
article Torphichen, it appears that the Provincial Grand Master
of the order of the Hospitallers in Scotland was a title of high ho-
dour. With us he bore the dignity of Prior, Master, or Precep-
tor of Torphichen, or Lord of St John. In England, the Prior,
or head of the Hospitallers, sat in Parliament as Premier Baron;
and the Prior in Scotland, as bead of these orders, and in right of
his Barony of Torphichen, in Linlitbgowshire the original seat
and patrimony of the knights in Scotland, sat in Parliament alter-
nately among the territorial barons and dignified clergy. In 1489
Lord St John held the place of Premier Baron immediately after
the earls; and, in 1526, he is classed among the abbots and friars
as a dignitary of the church. In the decrees of ranking of the
nobility 1606, he is placed next to the Lord Boyd.
  John Spottiswood.-Another person of distinguished merit con-
nected with this parish was Mr John Spottiswood, parson, of Cal-
der-Comitis, or Mid-Calder, and one of the superintendents of
the church, an office which was not intended to be pdrmanent, but
designed merely as a temporary expedient to assist in the planting
of new churches, in consequence of the great scarcity of Presby-
terian ministers, for the supply of new erections and vacant charges,
This was a very laborious duty, superintendents being required to


