
1012                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

supply of warm clothing. During last winter, (1841-2), of rather
unusual severity, there was expended on coals, and on bed and
body-clothes, upwards of L. 37 Sterling.
	When sick, the poor `re attended by the medical practitioners,
who not only cheerfully render their gratuitous advice and as-
sistance, but frequently give medicines. In cases that require
particular treatment, advantage is taken of that valuable institu-
tion, the infirmary at Aberdeen, where, it is but justice to add,
the patients from this parish have uniformly experienced every
attention and comfort that professional skill and humanity can
bestow.
	Friendly Societies.--There were at one time several Friendly So-
cieties in this place; but, from a combination of untoward circum-
stances, they did not afford the benefit expected at their formation.
After the passing of the Act 10th George IV., which made it
imperative on societies to remodel their rules, and adopt tables
founded on the scheme of mutual assurance, three of the Societies
have been broken up, and the funds divided among the members.
	Agricultural Association.--There was formed, about twelve
years ago, a Turriff Agricultural Association, and which is well
supported by landlords and tenants. It is under the management
of a committee chosen by the members, who hold two public
meetings annually; one in the spring, for the exhibition of seed
oats, and barley, grass-seeds, and bulls; and another in the be-
ginning of August, for a show of cattle and horses. This Asso-
ciation has done much to excite and keep alive a spirit of generous
emulation among the agriculturists of the district, and, by an im-
partial award of premiums to those who excel, has materially im-
proved the different species of seeds that are brought forward for
competition, as well as the live-stock on which the farmer mainly
depends. By the liberality of its kind and philanthropic patron,
the Earl of Fife, the Association has lately given premiums to de-
serving farm-servants, and, in furtherance of this important object,
a registry office is about to be established, which eventually must
have a salutary moral effect upon the labouring classes. This
Association has also lately directed special attention to the applica-
tion of science to agriculture, and is believed to be the first which,
has, with this view, proposed to institute a series of experiments and
inquiries in a thoroughly scientific manner upon the different soils
and localities within its bounds, and, after accurately ascertaining
their results, to report the same to the members. Should this


