
364                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

being carried to a great distance for the purpose of manure, has
been mainly instrumental in promoting the agricultural improve-
ments of this part of the country. Amidst the strata of limestone,
are sometimes found, in a state of petrifaction, organic remains of
the animal kingdom. It is generally supposed, that coal exists at
a considerable depth below the surface, and attempts have been
made in order to discover and work it, but as yet unsuccessfully,
though not without such appearances as justify high expectations.
	Soils, &c.--There is a great variety of soils in the parish, and
sometimes at a small distance from each other. A clayey soil, how-
ever, mostly prevails, though gravel and loam are also not unfrequent-
ly to be found. The vegetable produce correspondr to this variety.
In every farm, oats, barley, and potatoes are to be found. Wheat has
been introduced of late years into several farms, whose soil is more
congenial to it, and turnip husbandry is making a gradual but
steady progress. Besides rye-grass, which is universally cultivat-
ed, and yields an exuberant produce, we have in almost all parts
of the parish natural or bog-hay not only sufficient for our own
consumption, but also for exportation into other parishes. In the,
more mountainous parts, the soil is best adapted for sheep pas-
ture, and accordingly we have many excellent farms of this descrip-
tion, which yield very handsome rents to the proprietors.
	The Ayrshire and Galloway breed of cows are generally preferred,
the former of which are considered as the best milkers, and therefore
exclusively graze our dairy farms. So common is the hog, that it
is to be found in almost every cottage, and hence great quantities
of bacon are annually exported to Newcastle. Many young oxen
are reared in our pastures, and sold in the English markets.
	In addition to the more common culinary plants, which are the
natural produce of the soil, we have in our ravines a very rare
species vulgarly called Hart's-tongue, which has been highly es-
teemed for medicinal purposes.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men, &c.--This parish has been long celebrated for
its families of the name of Bell,--so much so that the Bells of
Middlebie became a common expression in Dumfries-shire; and
many most celebrated individuals of this name, in various depart-
ments of society, may be traced to an original connection with our
parochial district. These families have mostly now become ex-
tinct in the parish; but the prevalence of their name in a former
age is testified by the figure of a bell found on a great proportion
of our grave-stones.


