
     of Keith.

nual fairs; one in September, of very old standing, and
which, some 60 or 70 years ago, was the general mart for
merchant goods from Aberdeen to Kirkwall; it is still the
best frequented market in the north for black cattle and 
horses*.  Soon after the commencement of the village of
New Keith, the late Lord Fife began to erect a village
on the north side of the parish, and then feued out a consi-
derable tract of land, called the New Town of New Mill, 
to distinguish it from another town nigh it, called New
Mill, which is also his Lordship's property, but was never
feued.  This New Town contains 330 inhabitants, of
which there are a very few weavers, who are the only ma-
nufacturers; the rest, excepting 5 or 6 families, consist of
very poor people, who have fixed their abode there, for the 
conveniency of the land and moss.  The old town, called
New Mill, contains 65 inhabitants.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The weekly market in Keith, (which, before the erection of the new
village, was held in the old), is well supplied with provisions.  These, of
late years, have greatly increased in price.  The average price of oat-meal
50 years ago, was 6 s. or 8 s. for the boll of 16 measured pecks, weighing
upwards of 10 stone; beef, 1 d. per 1 b.; mutton, from 4 d. to 6 d. per
quarter of 7 and 7 lb.; a fed goose, from 10 d. to 1 s.; a hen, 3 d.; a
duck, 4 d.; a large chicken, 1 d.; butter, 3 d. per l b. of 22 Dutch oun-
ces; cheese, from 9 d. to 1 s. per quarter, according to its age.  It is,
however, to be observed, that, at that time, fresh meat was only to be had
at certain seasons, and such as used much meat, killed for their own con-
sumption; now, however, well fed fresh meat is alway to be had in the 
market, every week throughout the year, which, with other provisions, 
now sells at the following average prices:  Meal, which is extremely vari-
able, from 10 s. to 12 s. per boll, of 8 stone; beef, from 2 1/2 d. to 4 d. per
1 b. according to the season; mutton, from 2 d. to 3 1/2 d. per 1 b.; a goose,
2 s. 6 d.; a duck, 10 d.; a hen, 8 d.; butter, 8 d. per 1 b. of 22 Dutch
ounces.  Though an inland parish, fish is plentiful, and generally as cheap
as at the shore.  At the above mentioned period, men servants received of
wages per annum from L. 1:6:8 to L. 1:13:4; maids, from 12 s. to


