
      318                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

      times afforo sport to the angler.  The narrowness of the peninsula,
      of which the parish chiefly consists, precludes an accumulation of
      water sufficient to form a river of any magnitude.
         Botany.--The only thing worth mentioning under this head
      is, that the rare plant Eriocaulon septangulare is found in a lake
      near Loch-in-daal.
                               II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
         Land-owners.--Lord Macdonald is sole proprietor of the parish.
         Ancient and Modern Buildings.--The only ancient buildings
      deserving of any notice are two, viz. Dun-scaich, on the west side
      of the parish, and the Castle of Knock, on the east.  Both, I be-
      lieve, were the residences of the Barons of Sleat at a very remote
      period.  Dun-scaich is the more extensive building ; and, from the
      remains of a prison and a draw-well, it must have been a place of
      considerable strength.
         The only mansion-house is Lord Macdonald's castle at Arma-
      dale.  It is a modern Gothic building, erected about twenty-
      five years ago, after a design by Gillespie Graham, Esq.  The
      lobby and staircase, from the correctness of architecture, and ele-
      gance of finish, are universally admired.  The staircase window
      contains an elegant portrait of Somerled, Lord of the Isles, the
      founder of the family, in full Highland costume, done in stained
      glass by Egginton of Birmingham.  This window gives the lobby
      and staircase a splendid and dignified appearance.  The public
      rooms are all handsome and well proportioned.
         Parochial Registers.--The only register belonging to the pa-
      rish is that of births and marriages, commencing in 1813, and re-
      gularly kept since that period.
                              III.-POPULATION.
         In the year 1755 the population amounted to 1250.  When
      the former Statistical Account was written, the number of souls
      was 1788.  In 1821, it amounted to 2237 ; in 1831, to 2756;
      and in 1837 it had increased to 3000.
         Character of the People.--If the absence of crime be taken as a
      test by wbich to judge of the character of a population, the people
      of Sleat will stand high.  Interference on the part of the police of
      the country among them is unknown: Since my connection with
      the parish, fourteen years ago, I recollect only one case of
      theft, and the person then accused was evidently imbecile.  The
      inhabitants may be characterized as sober and active; but it must
      be admitted that they want that persevering industry which is ne-


