
     22                      SHETLAND.

     who, every Lord's day, reads a sermon to the people, and unites
     with them in devotional exercises.
        The Wesleyan Methodists have three chapels in this parish,
     and one minister, who has also to officiate in the parish of Sand-
     sting.  Their members are 216 in number.
        The Congregationalists have two chapels and one minister, who
     has also to officiate in many other parts.  Their members are 115
     in number.
        The communicants belonging to the Established Church are
     584 in number; namely, 240 in Walls, 159 in Sandness, 136 in
     Papa, and 49 in Foula.
        The stipend of the parish minister is L.150 per annum, and
     the glebe is worth about L.15.
        Education.-In each of the districts or parishes, there is an en-
     dowed school.  One of these is the parish school; the other three
     are supported by the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christ-
     ian Knowledge.  Occasionally, a few children in different parts
     are taught by persons employed by the parents for this purpose, on
     account of the distance at which they are placed from the parochial
     or Society school; and some are taught at home by the parents them-
     selves.  Though not more than a twelfth part of the population
     attend school at one time, and very often a much smaller number,
     yet the whole of the young people learn to read their Bibles with
     tolerable accuracy.  A considerable number also learn to write,
     but seldom before they are grown up,-the parents considering
     that they discharge their duty sufficiently when they afford them
     the means of learning to read.  As the young people seldom at-
     tend public worship till they are able, by their own exertions, to
     provide themselves with clothes for the purpose, it is of the utmost
     importance that the schoolmasters be men of piety and intelligence.
     Many parents might provide their children with such clothes as
     would enable them to go to church, if there was a willing mind.
     The industry of the young people themselves in this matter is
     very commendable.  One additional scbool is required for Walls,
     which, it is hoped, will soon be provided.  The district for which
     it is needed contains upwards of 300 persons.  Scarcely any school
     fees can be got from the scholars.
        Poor.-The poor are very easily. supported, and in the follow-
     ing manner: The parish is divided into sections; and when a poor
     person has no relations who can support him, he is assigned to one
     of these,-the inhabitants of which receive him into their houses


