
         		TORTHORWALD.			      35

tem of making and repairing the roads with broken stones, as in-
troduced by Mr Macadam, prevails universally here.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is a substantial commo-
dious building, erected in 1782; it affords accommodation for 500
persons, and the sittings are all free. It is conveniently situated near
the centre of the parish. The manse has been built at three different
periods. The oldest part of it was built about 1730; an addition
was made about 1791; and another addition in 1809. It is now a
large and tolerably convenient house. The stipend is fifteen chal-
ders, half barley, half meal, payable at the rate of the county fiars;
and L. 8, 6s. 8d. is given for communion elements. Converted to
money at the average of the last seven years, the stipend amounts to
L. 248, 1s. 1d. The grebe contains eleven acres of good land, including
the garden ground, steads of the manse and offices, and court-yard.
	There are no chapels or dissenting meeting-houses of any kind
here, though there are in the parish about twenty-eight families of
Dissenters, and six poor Irish Ronian Catholics. The church is
upon the whole well frequented, and is attended by about 224 fa-
milies. The average number of communicants is about 335.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish. One of these
is near the church, where English reading, writing, arithmetic,
book-keeping, geography, Latin, and Greek, are very well taught by
an able, diligent, and successful instructor of youth. His yearly sa-
lary is L. 31, 6s. 6 3/4d. and the interest of L. 160 of mortified monex.
The wages paid by the scholars are extremely moderate--1s. 6d.
per quarter for reading, writing, and the four common rules of arith-
metic; 3s. per quarter for writing and the higher branches of arith-
metic; 5s. per quarter for book-keeping, Latin and Greek. The
fees for geography, mathematics, and navigation are generally settled
by agreement between the master and scholars. The yearly amount
of fees actually received by him may be L. 30. There is a good
school-house and schoolmaster's house, and small garden. The
number of scholars attending the school is in winter about 120, and
in summer about 72. The other school is about two miles to the
south of this, at the village of Collin. In it are taught reading,
writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping. The wages paid by the
scholars for these branches are the same as in the other school.
The yearly salary is L. 20, and the amount of fees received may
be L. 20 per annum. There is a good school and schoolmaster's
house, and about three-fourths of an acre of land, chiefly re-
claimed from moss, which is now a considerable advantage to the


