
         BROUGHTON, GLENHOLM, AND KILBUCHO.                    85

have succeeded well.  In one or two places there are trees of old
standing.  The soil appears friendly to the production of every
species of tree, whether deciduous or evergreen; but the larches,
Huntingdon willows, lime and mountain ashes, shoot up most ra-
pidly, and the ornamental shrubs are not backward.  The oldest
and largest trees in the parish are ashes.  In some parts of the
parish, where there were extensive plantations of Scotch fir, these
trees have either died or been cut down by the hand of man.  The
soil, which is of a gravelly and sour description, appears to be pe-
culiarly unfavourable to the growth of that species of plant.
   The  climate is also unfaovourable to the ripening of the richer
and more delicate species of fruit.  At Mossfennan, Broughton
Place, and the manse, are walled gardens, which sometimes yield
a good crop of apples, pears, cherries, plums, and small fruit.
The wall of the old garden at Kilbucho Place is in a dilapidated
state, but the crop of apples and plums is often very abundant.
In some other gardens, which are surrounded only by a hedge or
paling, fruit-trees are sometimes sufficiently productive.  At Moss-
fennan, where the garden has been recently formed, with a fine ex-
posure to the mid-day sun, apples are reared that will stand com-
parison with the richest produce of the orchards of Clydesdale.
  In former times every farm-house had its small orchard; and if
proprietors would allot to every tenant a rood or two of land, free
of rent, on the condition of his planting it with fruit-trees, the
country would in a short time assume a more interesting aspect,
and supply the people with many of the simple luxuries of rural
life.

                     II.--Civil History.

    Accounts of the Parish--The modern history of the parish can
he gathered only from the parish registers, Dr Pennecuik's and
Armstrong's Accounts of Tweeddale, and Findlater's Agricultural
survey of Peebles-shire; and from the Statistical Account rendered
to Sir John Sinclair, and another by a litdrary gentleman, a native
of Glenholin, published in the Statistical Magazine of August 1819.
   Eminent Persons.--The most remarkable characters connected
with the district were, Secretary Murray, called the Apostate,
who resided at Broughton Place, and whose history is well known:
--Robert Macqueen of Braxfield, whose rigorous measures, when
he was Lord Justice-Clerk, were supposed to have been amongst
the means of saving this country from the horrors of a revolution.
   Land-owners.--John Macqueen, Esq. of Braxfield, is sole pro-


