
58                           AYRSHIRE.

	Banks.--In 1763, a bank was instituted by John M'Adam
and Company; but it was soon superseded by the extensive and ad-
venturous establishment known over the whole of Scotland, by the
name of Douglas, Heron, and Company. This bank commenced in
1769, under a numerous copartnery, who did business to a prodi-
gious extent. In consequence of the ultra-liberality of the credit
they allowed, the wide range of their dealings, and their capital be-
ing mostly founded in landed property, which could not be render-
ed promptly available, the stability of the house was soon shaken
and af last overturned, and it ended in a bankruptcy as extensively
ruinous as any speculation of the kind, perhaps, that has ever occur-
red in the country. Its failure happened in 1772, only three years
after its commencement. It is generally allowed, however, that, by
the liberal credit which they allowed for the encouragement of
commercial and agricultural speculations, they did an immense deal
of good to industrial enterprise in the way of trade and manufac-
tures, and particularly in the improvement of landed property. It
is pretty well understood that both the resources they supplied, and
the failure of these resources, were equally the means of giving a
stimulus to the cultivation of the soil, and the introduction of an im-
proved mode of husbandry over the whole of this western district.
In consequence of so extensive a bankruptcy, many landed estates
fell into the hands of new proprietors, who adopted at the same
time a change for the better in their mode of management. This
bank was succeeded by that of Messrs Hunters and Company, which
has existed ever since. By avoiding the error of its predecessor,
and steering a prudent medium betwixt rashness and over-caution,
it has turned out a very prosperous concern to all who have been
connected with it, and as secure and respectable an establishment
as any other of the kind in our provincial towns. In 1775, a
branch of the Bank of Scotland was instituted in Ayr, but it has
never been very extensive in its dealings, and is less so now than
ever, in consequence of the greater competition in the line that has
started tip of late. It is, however, highly respectable, both as re-
gards its agents and the nature of its transactions. A few years
ago, a new banking establishment was commenced under the name
of the Ayrshire Banking Company, which has every appearance,
from the branches belonging to it in the county, of doing business
to a considerable extent. It is supported by a numerous copartnery,
and seems to he conducted in a very spirited manner. There is
also a branch of the Glasgow Union Bank here, so that, with these
				3


