
     Statistical Account

   Eminent men.-Lord COLVIL, who was raised to the peer-
age by James VI. in 1609, was a man of a military genius,
and served with much reputation, in the wars under HENRY
the IV. of France.  Returning to Scotland, loaded with ho-
nours, he resided at Tillicoultry, and in his old age, revisited
the French court.  As he appeared in the old fashioned mi-
litary dress, which he had formerly worn in the wars, the
courtiers were all amazed when he entered the royal presence.
But no sooner did HENRY observe the old warrior, than he
clasped him in his arms, and embraced him with the great-
est affection, to the utter astonishment of all present.  After
his return, Lord COLVIL spent much of his time at Tillicoul-
try, and was particularly fond of walking on a beautiful ter-
race, at the north end of the Kirk-hill, and of reposing him-
self under a thorn tree, the venerable trunk of which still re-

<FOOTNOTE>

THEO CLERICO de Tullicoultry, in nemore, in saltibus, in planis et asperis, in
terris et aquis, in pratis et paseuis, in moris et maresiis, in stagnis et malendi-
nis, cum socco et sacca, cum surca et fossa, cum Tol et Them et infandetbes, et
cum omnibus ahis justis pertinentiis suis, et cum omnibus natiuis ejusdem
terre, qui die collationis facte predicto Aleumo patri dicti Aleumi, in dicta ter-
ra manentes fuerunt, libere, quiete, plenarie et honorifice, pet seruitium u-
nius militia, saluis nostris elecmosinis.  Concessimus etiam eidem WILLIELMO,
ut ipse et heredes sui, habeant et tuneant dictam terram in liberum forestum.
Quare firmiter prohibemus, ne quis fine eorum licentia in predicta terra fe-
cet, aut venetur super nostram plenariam forisfacturam decem librarum.
Testibus, venerabili patre GAMELINO, episcopo Sancti Andree, ALEXANDRIO
CUMYN, Comite de Bouchan Justiciario Scotie, WALTERO Comite de MON-
TETH, JOHANNE CUMYN, WILLIELMO de BREFCHYN, EUSTACHIO de Tur-
ribus, REGINALDO I E CHEN, apud forfar, vicessimo primo die Decembris,
anno regni nostri, quarto decimo."
   After the granting of this charter, Tillicoultry remained for a considera-
ble period in the possession of the family of MARR; but on account of a pre-
tended succession to LADY ISABELLA DOUGLAS, Countess of MARR, was seiz-
ed by the Crown, notwithstanding an express declaration and promise, by
ROBERT III. under the Great Seal, that he would accept of no lands belong-
to that lady.


