
                             BIRSAY AND HARRAY.                      153

          Fisheries.-The great bulk of the people in this parish are
       fishermen.  A considerable number of the young men go yearly
       to Davis's Straits, and also to Hudson's Bay.  There are upwards
       of twenty fishing-boats belonging to the parish; and, when wea-
       ther permits, they are in general very successful.  The kinds of
       fish of which they get the greatest numbers, are cod and dog-fish.
       Lobsters in their season are, also, got in great' numbers, and her-
       rings.  There are five herring-boats belonging to the parish,
       which generally go, at the fishing season, to Stronsay or Wick;
       and in general they are very successful.  Birsay would form an
       excellent herring-fishing station, provided there was a proper har-
       bour.
                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         There are few or no made roads in the parish.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which is very commodious,
       though far from being a comfortable one, was erected in 1064,
       and was enlarged in the year 1760.  It is at present in a state of
       bad repair.  Neither is it well situated for the convenience of the
       great bulk of the population.  The seats of the church are di-
       vided among the heritors according to their valuations.  The manse
       was built in the year 1802, and is in tolerably good repair.  The
       glebe consists of between 18 to 20 acres of arable and unarable
       ground, and its yearly rent may be stated at L.9, or thereby.  The
       stipend amounts to L.210, exclusive of L.8, 6s. 8d. for furnishing
       communion elements.  The average number of persons that at-
       tend church, when the weather is good, may be from 400 to 500.
       The number of male beads of families on communion roll, 131.
         There is only one Dissenting cbapel in the parish,-belonging to
       the Antiburghers or Original Seceders.  The stipend of the mi-
       nister does not exceed L.70 yearly, if so much.  He depends for
       his living upon the seat rents, and the Sabbath days' collection
       made at the church doors.
         Education.-There are six schools in the parish, viz. the paro-
       chial, and five others, which are conducted by persons (two of
       them females) entirely on their own adventure.  The parochial
       teacher's salary is L.26.  He also holds the office of session-clerk
       and precentor, the fees of which amount to L. 1, 15s. yearly.  He
       has a tolerable dwelling-bouse and school-room.  He has also a
       garden, but not of the extent required by law; neither is the defi-
       ciency supplied by an adequate allowance in money.  All the other
       teachers are supported by school-fees alone with the exception of


