
100                      ORKNEY.

   Wages.-The wages of a good ploughman are L.7, 7s. of money,
with six bolls of meal, and milk and rabbits.  But the greater num-
ber of farm-servants are employed on the farms for the winter half-
year only, for which their wages are from L. 2, 10s. to L. 3, and
they are fed and lodged in the family.  Women-servants receive
from L. 2, 1Os. to L. 3 per annum ; but as they are much engag-
ed at home in the plaiting of rye-straw for bonnets, they are un-
willing to work in the field, and are generally employed, only in
the care of cattle or as house-servants.  Day-labourers are paid
from 1s. to 1s. 3d. per day, but, as already observed, very few are
thus engaged for money wages, and, as a labourer cannot obtain
employment on day's wages throughout the year, there is found to
be a scarcity of them when a job occurs for which they are re-
quired.
   Fisheries.-There are in Cross and Burness fourteen boats en-
gaged in fishing lobsters ; and fifteen boats and sloops fishing cod
and herrings, besides numerous small boats.  It has been observ-
ed that the inhabitants of Sanday are only beginning to devote at-
tention to the fisheries ; but it may not be out of place here to state
the quantity of cod caught, cured, and dried in the north isles of
Orkney, during the present season, 1840.
In the island of Westray,      -        -        -        -    -         120  tons.
                 Eday,          -        -       -       -       -       109
                 Stronsay,  -      -      -    -      -        -          30
                 Shapinshay,    -     -      -     -      -       -       65
                 North Ronaldshay,       -      -     -     -      -      10
                 Cross and Burness. Sunday,      -     -      -      -    14
                 Lady parish, do,       -       -      -      -      -     6
                 Rousay and adjacent Isles, including sundry small parcels
                   from some ofthe islands already named, which were se-
		   parately sold and snipped,     -       -      -        90
                                                                         ____
                                           In all,      -     -          444 tons.
                                                                    _____________
Which were sold by the fishermen themselves for about               L. 5400  0  0
   When to this is added the value of herrings caught and delivered
to curers at Stronsay by North Isles boats, which the writer of this
article has no means at hand of correctly ascertaining, but which
could, hardly be less than an equal sum, he thinks that it will be
allowed that the inhabitants of these islands bid fair to do away
with the character for supineness and indolence in regard to fish-
ing, which has been liberally bestowed upon them by those who
were either unacquainted with them, or made no sufficient allowance
for their peculiar circumstances.  As tbe cure of cod was almost
unknown in Orkney previous to the appointment of fishery-officers
to oversee and direct it, the Orkney men had no bad babits, in


