
1086                          PERTHSHIRE.

I., 1124, it states that they were called M'Nab Eyre or Oighre, the
son and heir of the abbot. The Baron of M'Nab fought with Baliol
against the Bruce at Dalree. The manuscript quotes several an-
cient charters; one is by King David Bruce, under the Great
Seal, dated 1336: "Gilberto M'Nab et haeredibus suis, &c, de
Bovain in dominatu de Glendochart," &c. Another is by King
James III. to "Finlao M'Nab et filio, &c. de omnibus et singu-
lis terris de Bovain, Ardchyle, &c, dated 1486." Another date,
1502, is, "Finlao M'Nab de Bovain et haeredibus suis terrarum
de Ewar Leiragan," &c. From another deed, confirmed by a char-
ter under the Great Seal from Queen Mary, dated 27th June
1553, it appears the Laird of M'Nab mortgaged a great part of
his lands to "Colino Campbell de Glenurchy et haeredibus suis,
&c. de omnibus et singulis terris de Zeuir et Leragan cum suis
pertinent. ac etiam de terris de Bovain, Ardchyle," &c. John
M'Nab of that Ilk suffered much for his adherence to the cause
of Charles I. He was with Montrose at Kilsyth, and was killed
at the battle of Worcester. *
   This ancient family intermarried with some of the best and
oldest houses in the country.
   Land-nwners.- The land-owners are, The Most Noble the
Marquis of Breadalbane; W. L. Campbell of Glenfalloch; T. H.
Place of Glenure; Miss Campbell of Coninish; Mr M'Naugh-
ton of Suie; Dr W. Shaw of Craignavie. They are all non-re-
sident except Mr Place, who occasionally passes a part of the
autumn at Glenure House.
   There are several genteel residences in the parish. Besides
Auchmore House (though quoad civilia in Weem) and Kinnell,
there is Achlyne, beautifully situated on the Dochart; Glenure,

<FOOTNOTE> Interest was used to have his sequestrated estates restored to his infant son, and
the following was the reply of General Monk.
  "I do hereby declare that it was not intended by my order for reparing the Laird
of Glenurchy's leases by the M'Nabs out of their estates, that the same should extend
to the molesting and intermeddling with the estates of any of the M,Nabs who live
peaceably; and, for as much as I understand that the widow of the Laird of M'Nab
bath lived peaceably, you are hereby authorized, and I desire, in case any vexation
be offered to the outing or dispossessing of the said widow or her of the said
lands, or anything that belongs to them under color of the said order, to preserve the
rights that to them belong, as if the said order had never been made, and to enter
and receive them into their lands: and this f`vor also is to be extended for Archibald
M'Nab of Acharane. Given under my hand and seal at Dalkeith, 18th January
1654. S. S. GEORGE MONK. Directed to Captain Gascoigne, Governor of Fin-
larig." But, adds the manuscript, "it had no effect."
   At the Restoration a considerable part of their lands was recovered. The whole
property was sold some years ago.


