
     Of Glenmuick, Tulloch, and Glengairn.

They are 2 mineral of a very agreeable taste, light water, and
allowed to be of use in gravelish, scorbutic, and scrofulous
complaints.  The wells being the property of the gentleman,
already mentioned (Mr. Farquharson) he cleared out the
springs, which are three, and covered them; and erected not
only several houses upon the spot for the accommodation of
the water drinkers, as a public and private bath, an octagon
for the better sort to retire to, and several houses for shelter-
ing the poor; but also built a large and commodious house
called Pananich Lodge, pleasantly situated upon the banks of
the Dee, about a mile W. of the wells, containing a large
public room, and a number of private ones, with accommo-
dation for servants and horses, which, with a tolerable farm,
and the houses at the wells, is let to a landlady at 50 L. year-
ly, who has the good fortune to give universal satisfaction to
the company who visit her.  Mr. Farquharson likewise made
out good roads on both sides of the wells to the public road:
nor did he confine himself to this spot; he paid particular at-
tention to the roads wherever he had the least concern; he
made new, repaired old ones, and threw stone arches over
several small, but rapid rivulets, which, when flooded, were
often impassable, at his own private expense.  In a word,

<FOOTNOTE>

tressed with serofulous sores; and who, after being reduced almost to the last
stage of weakness and decrepitude, took a fancy (for she had no expectations
of a cure) to crawl upon her crutches every good day to the wells, which were
then a bog remarkable only for the blueish scum on the surface of the water;
here she bathed her sores, and laid rags dipped in the water upon them; and
persevering in this course for some time, she was agreeably surprised to see her
sores heal up, and to find her health and strength return.  This brought the
wells into immediate repute.  And the country people absurdly imagined that
they were an infallible cure for every disorder, and persons under all complaints
crowded to them; fatal experience, however, soon taught them that they were
hostile to consumptive habits.


