
             218                         ELGINSHIRE.

             turbance in tbe newer rocks, it is inferred, that the primary beds
             were raised to their present angle before the deposition of
             the sandstone. From Sluie to the bead of the parish, the pri-
             mary rocks only are found. The noble domain of Darnaway, with
             its adjoining forest of oak, occupies the primary and old red sand-
             stone section of the parish. That portion of it which rests on the
             limestone and newer deposits, which are always characterized by
             a gently undulating surface, is studded by gentlemen's seats, and
             is highly cultivated.
               Botany.- This parish presents rather an interesting field to
             the botanist. The sea-coast, the banks of the Findhorn, and the
             woods of Darnaway and Brodie, are worthy of being better ex-
             plored than they have hitherto been. There was collected by
             the late James'Brodie, Esq. of Brodie, a large and valuable Her-
             barium ; but it contains few specimens gathered within the county
             of Moray. It is now in the possession of David Stewart, Esq.
             Edinburgh, Near Brodie House, the rare and beautiful Py!-ola
             uniflora, now termed Monesisgrandiflora, was at one periodfound;
             but it has now entirely disappeared,-probably 'from the spot
             where it grew being overgrown with furze. In the Darnaway fo-
             rest, and in the park and woods of Brodie, are many splendid spe-
             cimens of oak, ash, and beech. At Earlsmill, on the Darnaway
             property, are two magnificent trees,-one an ash, and the other a
             beech, which were noticed in the old Statistical Account.  At the
             time of its publication, the ash measured 14 feet 10 inches in girth.
             It now measures 17 feet 7 inches. In 1824, it lost two of its
             largest branches, and is now a splendid ruin, fast going to decay.
             In the centre of it, there is a cavity large enough to admit of three
             men standing upright. The beech is still in full vigour, and
             has increased in girth from 14 feet 7 inches to 16 feet. On the
             property of William Brodie, Esq. of Brodie, and near the bound-
             ary line which separates the parishes of Dyke and Auldearn, are
             two Scotch firs (Pinus sylvestris), which are especially deserving
             of notice. Since so much of the old pine forests of Scotland have
             fallen before the woodman's axe, there are comparatively few fine
             large specimens of this tree to be seen. These two are called, by
             way of preeminence, the King and the Queen. One of them
             measures, at the height of three feet from the ground, 12 feet 8
             inches in circumference. The other is somewhat less. The
             imaller of the two stands on rather high ground, and, towering, as
             it does, far above its comparative puny neighbours, has been


