
                            DOLPHINTON.                   59

grazing, L.3 per cow; L.1, 10S. for a two-year-old; L.1 for a
one-year-old; and 5s. for a full-grown sheep pastured for the year.
	The valuation of the parish of Dolphinton is L.850. Of this
amount Richard Mackenzie, of Dolphinton, Deputy-keeper of his
Majesty's Signet, has L.640; Charles Cuningham of Newholm,
one of the city clerks of Edinburgh, has L.180; and John Allan
Wardrope of Garvaldfoot, has L.30. In 1755, when Dr Webster's
census was taken, the real rental of the parish was near L.400
Sterling. In 1792, when the last Statistical Account was drawn up,
it was about L.600, and it is now about L.1700.
	Rate of Wages.--Iabourers' wages, 10s. weekly: Artisans, 2s.
.6d. per day.
	Breeds of Live Stock.--The sheep, of which there may be 1000,
are, with the exception of a few Cheviots, of the blark-faoed breed.
The cattle, of which there may be 200 milch cows, and 100 young,
were formerly of an inferior kind, and kept chiefly for breeding and
fattening; but for some time past the dairy breed of cows have
prevailed. In general, they are partly the Ayrshire breed trans-
ported, and partly the native breed improved, by better feeding
and a skilful crossing.
	Husbandry.--In few parishes has the state of husbandry been
more improved within the memory of man than in Dolphinton.
The era of its agricultural revolution may be dated from the ac-
cession of Kenneth Mackenzie. Before his time, both the land
and its occupiers were proverbially in a wretched condition. The
houses were built of mud, and covered with turf. The outfield
land was miserably flayed for the supply of fuel, and otherwise en-
tirely neglected. The crofts were held in runrig, and under the
servitude of sheep-pasturage during the winter. Even after the
rest of the country had adopted the turnip and sown grass hus-
bandry, the tenants here paid their rent mainly by driving lead to
Leith, and purchasing south country meal at Peebles, and carting
it to Carnwath. But Mr Mackenzie had the estate parcelled out
by two intelligent neighbours into farms, so as to render each the
most commodious for profitable occupancy, and given not to the
highest offerer, but to the applicant who might in all respects be
best qualified to stock and farm the Iands, according to the stipu-
lations. Dolphinton was in consequence much improved in a few
years; and the condition of the live-stock, of the implements of
labour, and of the farmers, their families, and servants, have all
made rapid advancement. Nor are these improvements now by


