
310                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

most entirely discontinued. The stockings were wrought in a pe-
culiar manner on wires,--were mostly party-coloured, and of great
variety in the pattern.
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Town, Villages, &c.--The population of the town of Sanquhar
amounts to 1400. The trade carried on in it is chiefly the weaving
and sewing of muslin; other articles made and sold are mostly for
the use of the inhabitants there and in the neigbbourhood, and
consequently the trade in them is very limited. The public re-
venue of the burgh amounts at present to about L. 40 yearly, and
arises from imposts paid on different articles of merchandize and
live stock brought within its boundaries, and from an uncultivat-
ed commonty of 181 acres. The coal mines in this commonty,
and in the part which has been allotted to proprietors, though let
and wrought, have yielded little or no revenue to the burgh for
several years. The village of Crawick-mill is situated in the
burgh part of the parish, about half a mile north-west from the
town of Sanquhar, on the banks of the Crawick stream. It con-
tains 124 inhabitants, and is in a thriving and prosperous state.
The only other village in the parish is Wanlockhead, and is in the
landward part. The number of the population there is 675. These
are all either engaged in the lead mines, or in some way dependent
upon them. It can scarcely be supposed that any would volunta-
rily choose to reside there at so high an elevation.
	Means of Communication, &c.--In the town of Sanquhar, are
kept two post-chaises and one car for hire.  There is also esta-
blished in that place a post-office. Letters are dispatched and
arrive to and from Thornhill on the south, and to and from old
Cumnock on the west daily. The revenue annually is about
L. 160. There are two turnpikes in the parish, and the length of
the roads on which they are placed is 12 miles. About 9 miles
of parish roads are also in a state of good repair. On the turn-
pike road, there pass daily one coach from Glasgow to Carlisle,
and another from Carlisle to Glasgow. There are eight bridges
in the parish, or over streams at its boundaries, which are of consi-
derable extent and in good repair. With the exception of two which
are old, they have all been built within the last twelve years. One
of them, which is over the Nith, is made of wood, and of a very
ingenious construction,--on which horses with loaded carts pass
with ease and safety. There are in the parish two carding, two
corn and barley-mills. The sort of fence most common is the


