
                       YETHOLM.                           169

ed the Sabbath school; but many are kept back by the shame of
appearing more deficient than others of their own age.
   A great majority of the children have been baptized; and there
are probably not so many illegitimate children among them as
among the lower ranks of society in general. They almost always
intermarry in their own tribe, and are generally dissatisfied when
this is not the case.
   Of late, the greater number of the tribe have attended church
occasionally, and some with exemplary regularity. Their ideas
on the subject of religion, however, are extremely limited, and er,
roneous. Nor can they well be otherwise, considering their unset-
tled way of life, and their defective education. Yet they profess a
general respect for religion; and, when absent from church, excuse
themselves on the ground that they have no suitable or decent
clothing.
   I have not been able to ascertain whether they entertain any
peculiar sentiments on the subject of religion. Like most ig-
norant persons, they are very superstitious. * All of them profess
to belong to the Established church; and there are no Dissen-
ters among them. Eight or nine of them are communicants.
Most of them possess Bibles, which have been purchased, how-
ever, rather for the use of their children, when at school, than
for any other purpose. Those who have not Bibles, would pur-
chase them, they say, could they afford it. Most of them are
indeed very poor, if we may judge from their apparel and their
household accommodations, all of which are inferior to those pos-
sessed by the common class of labourers in the country.  +
   It is a fact not very creditable to the wisdom of Britain, that,
while so much has been done for the heathen, no attempt has yet
been made in Scotland, to civilize and enlighten those wandering
tribes, who during three-fourths of the year, in pursuing the avoca-
tions, from which they derive their subsistence, have no pastor, no
church, no school, no home, and are deprived of the means and
opportunities of acquiring every kind of instruction. The attempt,
if properly made, would, I am persuaded, be in numerous in-
stances successful. Society would be the principal gainers by
the success of any such scheme. They would render their own
homes, persons, and property more secure; while they would dis-
charge a long-neglected duty to a considerable number of their

<FOOTNOTE>See Blackwood's Magazine, Nos. I. and II.
    Since writing the above, I have received a grant of Bibles and Testaments from
    the Edinburgh Bible Society, so that every poor gipsy family is now supplied with
    a copy of the scriptures.


