
     of Edzell.

under the York Buildings Company, by a precarious and
cruel tenure of one, two, or three years.  The tenants had
no encouragement to industry, and they were not industrious.
Almost their only mean of subsistence arose from their sheep.
The land hardly repaid labour; 40 or 50 threaves (4 stooks)
have been often talked of as then insufficient to yield a boll
of grain.  In tearing the miserable soil, they used often 6
horses, such as they were, never less than 4, often 4 horses
and 6 cattle.  Lime, as a manure, was almost unknown.
Now, they enjoy the security of leases, judiciously granted,
to encourage the erecting of good steadings, and improving
the ground.  Lime has been employed with great success.
An instance lately occurred, of about 16 bolls of oats, and
another of 20 bolls of bear, after one.  The usual average
may be about 6 returns of the seed.  The ground is almost
never let out of cropping, without being laid down with
grass seeds.  The ordinary space of so lying is 4 years, of
which the first, and sometimes the second, is hay; the re-
mainder pasture.  From two fifths to one half is generally in
grass.  The land is cropped 4 years, of which one or two
are green crops.  Turnips suit well, but are not yet cultiva-
ted to the height which they will probably soon reach, as it
is not as yet very common to raise them for the purpose of
seeding.  Every one has them in greater or less quantity, as
winter food for milch cows and young cattle.  Flax suits this
soil.  The average quantity raised may be about 16 acres.
Cabbage, as a field crop, has been tried in several cases with
good success.  The quantity of potatoes raised is very consi-
derable, as almost every family is connected with land, and
supply themselves with that most useful root.  The grain is
such as may be expected.  It is neither so weighty nor valu-
able as that produced from carse or richer inland soils; but it
is, in general, at least equal to that of the surrounding coun-

     VOL. X. O


