
     Statistical Account

   The manse, rebuilt in the year 1757, is well con-
structed in its walls and roof, but its dimensions are ra-
ther narrow for a large family.  The office-houses have
been, some years since, also rebuilt.  The glebe, con-
sisting of 8 English acres and a rood (the stations of
houses being included), is fenced with hedge and ditch,
and has a subdivision in the same fashion.  The stipend
amounts to nearly 39l. in money, and 4 chalders of vic-
tual, three parts of which are oats, and a third bear.
The communion elements are comprehended.  William

<FOOTNOTE>

successor,who was soon called to Leith, nor by those of the late Mr.
Home, who burned in the vault of the Ninevell's family in the E.
aile.  The late bellman, who lived to above 80, and remembered Mr.
Lattie, the Episcopal clergyman, who retired to Eymouth, saw (reckoning
that gentleman, and the present incumbent), the succession of one 
stersin the parish church.

<UNREADABLE>

   Yet, another inseribel stone, with a carved feutcheon over the epitaph,
deserves attention.  It is that of Mr. William Aitkenson (Aitchison), whose
natural genius, prompted by an able school-matter here, rendered him
early such a proficient in writing, arithmetic, geometry, and other parts of
mathematics, as carried him out of the line of an operative mason, under
his father, and marked his abiltiy to proceed the advertised want of a wri-
ting and arithmetical master, in one of the academies, he presented himself
as a candidate for the place.  The produced specimen of his permanship
was so much superior to that of the other candidates, that the judges sus-
pected it to be a borrowed piece of copperplate, until it was authentica-
ted by his writing, in their presence.  By access to books of ference, and
other opportunities of acquiring knowledge, during his continuance in the
academy, for several years, he became well qualified to be himself head
master of one.  It was, accordingly, opened in a large house, close by
Hammersmith, and kept up with reputation and success, for a few years,
until his health declined.  Being advised by his physicians to try his na-
tive air, for a recovery, he returned here.  His aged parents saw him
in the habit of a gentleman, and received, as such, in several respectable
families.  But although he lived, with some hopes of a restoration of
health,for about 2 years, the distemper of his constitution proving invin-
cible, deprived him of life, at the age of 35.     

</UNREADABLE>


