
                                LEWIS-STORNOWAY.                       119

           rora Borealis in brilliancy far surpasses any appearance of the
           kind seen on the mainland.
               The prevailing winds are the south-west and the west.  They
           invariably bring torrents of rain, if continuing forty-eight hours
           from these points.  The north and north-east winds are cold and
           dry, in the end of spring and beginning of summer; at the latter
           season they prevail for a month or six weeks; and if from the north-
           east the gardens are infested with caterpillars.
               Diseasds.-There is one peculiar distemper prevalent in this
           island, which seizes infants about the fifth night after their birth, and
           carries them off in convulsive fits. Alexander M'Iver, Esq. surgeon,
           has favoured me with the following statement: "The climate of
           Lewis is chiefly remarkable for its extreme humidity, and for the
           change which, within the last twenty years, has taken place in it, in
           regard to mildness. Even in winter, excessive cold is now unknown,-
           it being a rare occurrence for snow to remain three successive days
           on the ground, although formerly this season was very frequently ri-
           gorous. The proximity of the western ocean, the mossy nature of the
           soil, and the almost invariable flatness of the surface, combine to im-
           press these characters on the climate of this island.  The diseases
           to which the inhabitants are most liable, are those which proceed
           from exposure to dampness and cold, as inflammatory diseases; and
           those which are produced by the continued use of vegetable diet,
           such as dyspepsia and dropsy.  These distempers, the unceasing
           hardships and toil to which the people are subjected from their
           youth, and the want of that vigour which nutritious food gives to thd
           frame, being inimical to longevity, the lower classes, but more par-
           ticularly the male portion of them, may be said to die, in general,
           at an early age.  The disease incident to infants, which is vulgarly
           called by the name of 'the fifth night's sickness,' is the Trismus
           infantum, or infant lock-jaw. It appears most frequently in moun-
           tainous districts, and seldom admits of cure."
               Hydrography-Friths.- No Friths intersect the parish, but the
           Broad-bay, which, at the entrance between Tuimpan-head and
           Kneess, is four miles broad.  It runs inland about ten miles; and
           at spring tides, its water reaches within half a-mile of Stornoway to
           the north of Bay-head. Its colour is a dark green with a bluish
           tinge; its depth varies from four to twenty fathoms.  Luminous
           globules appear on the surface when agitated; the fishermen's oars
           at night seem of a golden brilliancy; and a flaming stream rushes
           from the helm of the vessel or boat.  In shallow water on the


