
     Statistical Account

   There are 3 charitable societies belonging to the parish.
When any of their members, from sickness or age, are un-
able to work, they are regularly, and even liberally supported
by these societies.  At present, there are only 3 beggars in
the parish; but the inhabitants are greatly oppressed with
beggars from other parishes, and even with several from Ire-
land.  The number of poor has, of late years, very much in-
creased, and is still on the increase.  From the very advanced
wages of the manufacturing and labouring people of every
description, and from the idleness, the dissipation and profli-
gacy of manners, the usual, and, indeed, the almost insepar-
able consequences of very high wages, it is next to an absolute
certainty, that the poor, in a few years, will increase in a
proportion hitherto unknown in Scotland.  The common and
ordinary funds, particularly in populous manufacturing pa-
rishes; will be unable to support them.  In there parishes the
poor's funds, from many very obvious causes, are, for some
years past, greatly diminished.  One very general and prin-
cipal cause of this decrease is, that MEN of RANK and FOR-
TUNE are very irregular, and even criminally negligent, in their
attendance upon divine service on the Sabbath.  This conduct,
however fashionable, is not only disrespectful to religion, dis-

<FOOTNOTE>

wards of 80 acres, all arable, of an excellent improveable soil and lying within
a quarter of a mile of the town.  Were it out of lease, it would bring, at least,
a yearly rent of 80 l. to the poor.  In 1743, the immediate predecessor of the
present incumbent let it for the very long period of 76 years, at the extremely
low rent of 121.  The tenant also pays 2 bolls and 6 pecks of meal yearly to
the parish minister, and the half of the???  and schoolmaster's salary.  This
very extraordinary length of a lease was thought, by many, to be beyond the
powers of the minister and session to grant.  By the advice of a lawyer, of the
very first character for professional knowledge and abilities, the present incum-
bent with the concurrence of the session and principal heritors, commenced a
process of reduction before the Court of Session.  The Court, however, gave a
definitive sentences against the poor, and in favour of the tenant.


