                            AYR.                                41

with the art of glazing. The above quarry lies along the line, as
we have said, in which the old Roman road must have passed, and
a relic of this kind so far under ground, unless it had been placed
there by some contingency beyond the usual course of things,
carries along with it some plausible reasons for believing it of an-
cient manufacture. At or near this place also, was the site of the
famous Barns of Ayr.
	But we have not been left entirely to uncertain conjecture, or
vague tradition, with respect to some great conflicts having taken
place in this parish in ancient times, both betwixt the Romans and
the natives of the country, and with the latter amongst themselves.
Having been led to make some investigation into the subject, we
have found some light thrown upon it, by the following autho-
rities: Spottiswoode, in his history, relates that " in the year
360, Maximus, a Roman Prefect, excited the Picts to enter into
alliance with him against the Scots, and that the Romans and
Picts encountered the Scots at the Water of Doon in Carrick.
The Scots were routed, and thus King Eugenius, and most of his
nobility were slain." That a great battle was also fought in this
locality, betwixt the Britons and the Scots and Picts united, is as-
serted by Hollingshed, Boethius, and Buchanan. The first of
these represents the Silures, as inhabiting the region now known by
the name of Ayrshire, and states that "Coilus, King of the Bri-
tons, having assembled an `rmy, entered the Scottish borders lying
towards the Irish Sea, wasting with fire and sword whatever he
found in his way, till he came to the river Dune, where he encamp-
ed on the banks." Boethius says, evidently in reference to the
same invasion, that while Coilus was King of the Britons, the
Scots and Picts attacked him, "ad ripam amnis Dunae," the Scots
in front, while the Picts came upon him from behind, during night.
" Dum Coilus ipse servaretur incautius a suis, oppressus occubuit,
loci nomen Coilum ad posteros relinquens." Buchanan, in his His-
tory of Scotland, gives a more detailed account of this battle
than either of these, Lib. 4th, cap. 4. To retaliate a hostile in-
cursion, he relates of King Coilus, "Britto-Scottorum fines ingres-
sus, ad Dunum usque amnem penetravit, &c. After narrating other
particulars, he thus concludes his account. "Eductis copiis scotia
fronte, Picti a tergo invasuri, ad hostem ante lucem perveniunt, &c.
Cecidit cum parte majore suorum Coilus: ipse, regionem in qua pug-
natum est, de suo nomine celebrem fecit." There is a tradition


