
     of Liff and Bervie.

   Invergourie, as place of Christian worship, is of remote
antiquity, and perhaps the most ancient on this side the
Tay.  The first church was built by Boniface*, a legate of
missionary, on his landing there with some attendants from
Rome, during the 7th century.  The same person pro-
ceeding into the interior parts of Angus, founded other
churches.  The walls of the church of Invergourie, used in
later times, are still very entire; but they indicate no supe-
rior antiquity or workmanship, and are probably those of
a fabric less ancient than the first.  The church-yard is
on an eminence of a singular shape, which, on one side,
is oftern washed by the Tay; and some people, from the
variety of mould dug up, have conjectured, that the whole
or greater part of this eminence may have been composed
of forced earth.  We shall finish this article, with an ac-
count of a subterraneous building discovered a few years
ago near Lundie House, which, it is believed, will be ac-

<FOOTNOTE>

they were endeavouring to force the doors of the palace in the night, and
the King, assisted by his chamberlain Alexander Carron, the son of that
Carron whom Malcolm III. had distinguished by the surname of Scrim-
geour, and preferred to the office of carrying the royal standard, happily
effected his escape,  Embarking then at Invergourie, he directed his
course to the southern parts of the kingdom, where he raised a great force
in order to repel and punish this insurrection.  But before proceeding
in his expedition, he founded, as a tribute of gratitude to God for the late
deliverance and protection he had experienced, the church of the
monastery of Scoon, and made over to that church in dotem et glebam,
the Lands of Liff and Invergourie formerly assigned to him as a present
by the Earl of Gourne.  Vice Fodoun's Sco. Chron. also Buchan.
Hist.

*Vide Boeth. Hift. also Archbishop Spottiswood, and Forbes on Tithes.
The two latter agree in one account, which is evidetly copied from
Boece, but with very great inaccuracy.  They make Boniface to have
landed at the mouth of a small river, dividing Angus from Mearns,
A. D 697.; whereas Boece point clearly at Invergourie as the landing
place, and mentions the fact as having happened about A.D. 620.


