
                       KINGLASSIE.                         195

proximate hills of no very diminutive size. A square tower, 52
feet from the base, was erected, in the year 1812, on the summit of
one of those heights, and marks act a great distance the hill of Red-
wells, whose southern banks slope towards the village of Kinglas-
sie, in a declivity of about 160 feet. The ground on the south of
the village, forming the middle parallel ridge, rises into a height of
considerable, though somewhat inferior altitude, on both sides of
which the surface gradually subsides into gentle inclinations or nar-
row planes, whose elevation above the level of the sea is about 200
feet.
   Soil and Climate,-Considerable variety characterizes both the
substratum and the surface. Clay, loam, and gravel are often in-
termingled. The greater proportion of soil is strong close-bot-
tomed clay. The remainder is chiefly diversified by moss and sand.
Although some localities seem peculiarly subjected to stagnant
damps, or exposed to the severities of the weather, yet, upon the
whole, the climate is decidedly wholesome and desirable.
  Hydrography.-The Leven, proceeding from the renowned loch
of that name in the north-west vicinity, runs eastward, and forms,
as has been already mentioned, the northern boundary of the pa-
rish. Bennarty hill, in the contiguous neighbourhood, sends forth
a stream which, acquiring accession from Bog Lochty, the marshy
ground to which allusion has been made, is known by the name
of Lochty. This rivulet, intersecting the village of Kinglassie.
glides along the dale situated betwixt the northern and midland
heights. The Orr, which takes its rise from the loch in Ballin-
gry parish, bearing that designation, traverses the southern level.
These small waters can furnish the angler with perch, pike, and eels.
They empty themselves into the Leven at a very small distance
beyond the eastern boundary of the parish. A diminutive streamlet
fcalled Sauchie, which pervades a few fields in the immediate vi-
cinity of the village, speedily joins Lochty. There are many springsi
both perennial and oceasional.
   Mineralogy.-Altbough, at no very remote period, coal-works
were in operation, yet during several preceding years that occupa-
tion has been entirely suspended within the parish. There is rea-
son to believe, however, that were coal pits less numerous in the
neighbourbood, a copious supply of this fossil could be obtained,
In various parts, ironstone, the constant companion of coal, is
found. Limestone was lately wrought on a moderate seale. Whin-
stone rock is very abundant: indeed, with rare exceptions, the who


