
     of Abernyte.

vate retailers.  It has not, however, produced hitherto
any very sensible alteration on the constitution and morals
of the people.  Perhaps, in a hill country, and where, by
the permission of small stills, there is little temptation to
adulterate the spirit, its effects may be less deleterious.
The use of tobacco may almost be said to be excessive, e-
specially among the female sex; there is scarce a young
woman, by the time she has been taught to spin, but has
also learnt to smoke.  Smoking seems to have been intro-
duced here as an antidote to rheumatism and ague; the
favourable alteration, however, with respect to there dis-
cases, has produced only a greater avidity for this indul-
gence.  Fuel is not an expensive article.  In summer the
peasantry burn only broom and furze, which they fre-
quently have for the cutting, at all times for a small price.
The light lands in the hills, after being a year or two out
of tillage, are over-run with broom.  Indeed, about 40
years ago, when the excessive badness of the roads render-
ed the transportation of fuel difficult, it was reckoned no
inconsiderable improvement to sow out light lands with
broom for fuel.  In winter they burn turf and coals, which
last sell at Polgavie from 3 s. 6 d. to 4 s the boll, of 800
wt.  We have no peats.  Coals are found the cheapest
fuel; but the badness of the roads renders the carriage dif-
ficult.  Hitherto the roads in this parish, being a small one,
and having no resident heritor, have been much neglected.
Now that the principal roads are making by tolls, it is to
be hoped, that the cross roads will he attended to, without
which this great improvement will be of no use to the hill
country.  To render the conveyance of coal and lime
more easy, it was lately proposed to cut a canal from the
Tay to the foot of the hills about Baledgarno, about half
a mile below this.  This useful project, however, seems at
present to be dropt.  A canal would undoubtedly be of

     3


