
     Statistical Account

that, when we have battles to fight in any future wars, our hardy
peasantry, who are the strength of a country, may be gone
and we shall have none to recruit our armies, except a band
of mercenaries from abroad, (who may turn their swords
against ourselves), and effeminate manufactures, or defenseless
sheep and shepherds dogs.  To prevent this national evil, emi-
gration must be stopt, either by legal restraints, or by sound
policy.  It is very doubtful, whether persons can be constitu-
tionally detained, by force, in this country, and prevented from
transporting themselves and their effects, wherever they are
inclined.  Unless, therefore, the legislature can interfere, in
recommending what species of stock is to cover the face of the
country, or in directing the proprietors of land to erect well
regulated villages, with proper conveniences, on suitable parts
of their estates, and preserve the numbers of their respective
people undiminished, nothing can be done by the public, to
put a stop to depopulation, or to prevent many parts of this
kingdom from becoming a desert, but to lay a tax upon all
store farms, in proportion to the number of their sheep.
   The water of Turk (the Boar water) which flows from Glen-
singlass, falls at right angles into the river that issues from Loch-
Achray.  The impetuosity of the stream has collected such a
bank of gravel and stones at the confluence, that the lake is
thrown back upon some valuable land.  This might be easily
remedied, and the expence would probably be no more than
the rent for two or three years, of the land, gained.  One side
of this lake belongs to the Duke of Montrose, the other to
the Earl of Moray and the Hon.  Mr. Drummond of Perth;
who certainly might find their interest in laying out the ne-
cessary charges.
   Some tracts of land, indeed, are sitted only for pasture; but
where the ground has been cultivated for ages, and many
families maintained decently, with a numerous and hardy off-


