
                             BRECHIN.                        139

men receive above L. 100 a-year, arising from seat rents and col-
lections. There are 2 or 3 Roman Catholics in this parish, but
there is no priest nearer than Dundee.
	The number of families attending the Established church is
about 900; of families attending the chapels of Dissenters about
400; of families attending the chapel of Episcopalians about 60.
	The average number of communicants at the parish church is
about 1400 each time the communion is dispensed.
	There is a Bible and missionary society in the town. The ave-
rage amount of their subscriptions and donations is about L. 50
a-year, nearly the half of that sum being contributed by each, be-
sides occasional collections. These last vary from L. 10 to L.20
annually.
	Education.--There are nine schools in the parish, besides three
or four for females only. Two of the former in the town, and one
of the latter have each a salary. Two in the country are supported
partly by the kirk-session; one of them from a small sum mortified
by Mr Johnston, minister here, abott sixty years ago. There is one
parochial school; in which the branches of education taught are,
reading English, writing, arithmetic, English grammar, geography,
Greek, Latin, French, book-keeping, and practical mathematics.
The same are taught, more or less, in the other schools. The pa-
rochial schoolmaster's salary is L.34,4s.4d. The amount of school
fees for some years has been about L.70. No house or garden is
given by the beritors. In lieu of the parochial school accommo-
dation an allowance of L. 10 a-year is granted by the magistrates
from the funds of the burgh, agreeably to a stipulation entered in-
to betwixt them and the heritors in the year 1808, when a regu-
lar parish school was first established. The yearly expense of
education, in reading only, is 10s.; in reading and writing, 16s.;
when arithmetic is added, it is 18s.; and with Latin, it is L. 1, 4s,
	A vacancy having lately occurred in one of the public schools,
steps are in the course of being taken, before filling up the vacancy,
to remodel the system of education that has hitherto prevailed in
this place, and to put the schools on a more efficient footing, by
adopting the modern plan of dividing the branches among three
different teachers, each of them having a salary independently of
the others.
	The people in general set a high value on education. Very

few, indeed, can neither read nor write; and none in the parish
are at a very inconvenient distance from one school or another.


