
                        CLOSEBURN.                            87

so thin as to become an economical substitute for blue slate.  When
brushed over with coal tar, they are impervious to water.  Advan-
tage has been taken of a rivulet in the immediate vicinity of one
of these quarries, to put in motion pumps, by a water-wheel, to
drain it.  Limestone is found in almost inexhaustible abundance.
The cover being deep, it is extracted from the quarry by means of
excavations. In proceeding with these operations, the miners leave
pillars of six square yards in thickness, at the distance of 30 feet,
to support the roof, which, together with the floor, is worked into
a regular form. The rock being very compact, they avail them-
selves of the aid of gunpowder. The mode of raising the limestone
from this quarry is rather ingenious. From the centre of the ex-
cavations an iron railway on an inclined plane, 200 yards long, ex-
tends to the top of the kiln, up which loaded waggons ascend with
the utmost facility, by means of a water-wheel put in motion by a
stream of water brought six miles for the purpose. This stream
is appropriated to other purposes. Descending to a lower level, it
falls on another wheel, which puts in motion fanners to throw air
into the bottom of lime-kilns, to facilitate the burning of limestone,
and diminish the fuel necessary for driving off the carbonic acid;
to move pumps to drain the lime quarry, and also machinery for
sawing timber. This stream is then conveyed away for irrigation.
The kilns here mentioned are of the most improved construction
for burning lime with the smallest quantity of fuel.
   Produce.--The gross amount and value of raw produce yearly
raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds,                                          L. 14,800
        of potatoes and turnips,                                             7000
        of hay, meadow and cultivated,                                       5000
        of land in pasture, rating it at L. 2 per ox, and 4s. 6d. per ewe,   8000
        of the annual thinning and periodical felling of wood, plantations,
                 and copse, and bark,                                        2000
Lime quarry,                                                                 3500
                                                                           _______
                 Total yearly value of raw produce,                     L. 40,300

                        V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Markets, &c.--The nearest market-town is Dumfries, 12 miles
distant. There are four small villages in the parish. There are
two turnpike roads; the one connects Annandale with Nithsdale,
and is about eight miles long; the other is six miles long, and
forms a part of the great road from Carlisle to Glassrow by Dum-
fries. About four miles northward it sends off a branch to Edin-


