
     of Muirkirk.

which affected the country, in general, and its highest parts
in particular, in the year 1782 were severely felt here*.

   Real and Valued Rent.-The real rent about 1400 L. Ster-
ling; and the valued rent 188 L. 6 s. 8 d. Sterling.

   Price of Grain and Provisions.-Meal per boll from 16 s. to
17 s. 4 d. common bear from 1 L. to 1 L. 2 s.  Ayrshire boll.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In this parish, severe frosts in the harvest months, heavy
rains, snows, and frost again, reduced the corn, while on the
ground, or in the sheaf, to the state of barley during the first
stages of malting.  The meal still retained an unnatural and
disagreeable sweetishness, and in colour resembled coal or peat-
ashes.  The straw, by the above process, was discoloured, and,
when dry, seemed deprived of every vegetable juice, appeared
tasteless, and void of nourishment.  Physicians, and some who
were no physicians, declared both grain and straw to be un-
wholesome, and prognosticated diseases and death to men and
cattle.  Yet it is remarkable none of those direful consequences
ensued, and the cattle, in particular, never appeared healthier,
or more stout for labour than in the spring immediately follow-
ing.  The same all-governing power which permitted the calami-
ty to take place, seeming to interpose to prevent or suspend its
natural and so much dreaded consequences.  Possibly, too, the
nourishment of the grain was arrested in the straw, but though
this will account for the healthiness of cattle, yet, by no means,
for that of the species.  Much praise is due to the humanity of
those who, this season, so strenuously and successfully exerted
themselves to save their fellow men from famine and from hun-
ger, in those parts of the kingdom where the fruits of the earth
were entirely blasted or destroyed, by bringing grain from the
more fruitful fields of richer countries in happier climes.  Much
also is to be ascribed to the exertions of those who brought fo-
reign aid to those parts of this country, where the calamity
was still felt, though not so severely.  A species of white field
pease imported, became very seasonable supply to this parish,
especially in the spring months, and moderated in a great de-
gree, the threatened calamity.  Upon the whole, it may be af-
firmed that dearness of meal, but not absolute scarcity, and the
destruction of feed grain, were the only material inconvenien-
cies which this part of the country suffered from the unfortu-
nate season 1782.


