
    38                 BANFFSHIRE.

    acres. Of the last mentioned, there are 215 acre (on the estate
    of Sir Robert Abercromby,) the improvement of which has been
    conditioned for.  Some maintain that there is yet a quantity of
    waste land in the parish that might be profitably improved, others
    that cultivation is already over extended. There is no undivided
    common.  The number of acres under wood is 223.\f*
       	In the grounds of Duff House, which comprise most of the plant-
    ing in the parish, are to be found ash, elm, beecb, plane, birch,
    lime, maple, oak, horse-chestnut, mountain-ash, and various species
    of firs.  Here there seems to have been rather too littld done as
    regards the affairs of thinning and pruning, &c.-(principally, it
    is alleged, from an indisposition to diminish the shelter for the game,)
    and much of the wood is of very slender growth.
       What otber planting is in the parish belongs to Lord Seafield,
    and consists mostly of firs; but, from age and thinning together,
    may be described as rather verging to decay.  Sir Robert Aber-
    cromby is at present in the intention of planting some belts and
    clumps on his property in the upper part of the parish, and about
    fifty imperial acres have been laid off for that purpose.
    About a mile from the town, is a very considerable nursery for
    plants of all kinds, suitable to the climate.
       Rent of Land.-Tbe average rent of arable land in the parish
    may be stated at about 16s. per acre.  It varies from 5s. to L. 2.

<FOOTNOTE>This statement is made up from the best existing data, namely, from accounts
    procured ofthe lands belonging to each proprietor in the parish; but, as there have
    been, as regards the greater part, no late sure ey, its exact correctness cannot be war-
    ranted.  The total amount which it furnishes is 5162 imperial acres; and after
    making allowance for the space occupied by the town of Banff, roads, &c. the whole
    extent ofthe parish would fall short of that stated in Robdrtson's map, viz. 6312 acres.
       The map, however, includes in the parish of Banff a tract of perhaps 100 acres,
    on the river side, (from about the cruive dike to the bridge of Alva,) considered by
    the agent of Lord Fife, the proprietor, to be in the parish o fAlva, and not included
    in the present computation--4dso a space-, which may be guessed at 500 acres on this
    side oftUe burn of Boyndie, similarly stated, by the agents of Lord Seafield, the pro-
    prietor to be in the jarisb of Boyndie.
       The bundaries of the two perishes are thus fixed in the decreet of disjunction l635:
    "Ye said parochine of Banff to have includit yairintill Ye toune of Banff, with ye
    pendicles of ye samyn as it had of before, and to have adjoyned yairto out of ye said
    parochine of Inverboyndy ye landis of Org Inchdrower ye pendicles yrof; the
    parochine of the samyn, the haill lands Iyand betwixt the burne of Boyne at the west
    the burne of Inverboyndy at the cast, the sea on the north, and the landis of park
    of Corncairn at the south pairtis."
       It seems the general understanding at present that, at least, the lands of Easter
    Baldavis and Raggal, with the plantations of Baldavie (all on this side of the burn
    of Boyndie), belong to the parish of Boyndie-and these lands are not specified, (un-
    less under the name of "pendiclds") in the enumeration of those which compose the
    parish of Banff.                                 4


