
     No. 4.] The Statistical Account.

the labour of the lands.  So late as the year 1756, there
were no fewer than seven tenants, with large families, on the
lands of Hounam, now all rented by one tenant, who em-
ploys only one shepherd.  There were also several small
lairds: their lands are lost in the large farms, their names
extinguished, and their mansions confounded in the dust.
   Though this last cause operates most strongly in depopu-
lating the parishes where the monopoly of farms is frequent,
yet it is by some made a question whether it tends to depo-
pulate the country at large in any great measure.  No doubt the
towns and villages will increase as the country parishes di-
minish; and therefore, in this district, the villages of Yet-
holm and Morbattle have of late considerably augmented in
the number of inhabitants and houses: yet it does not seem to
be in the same proportion as the country districts around them
have diminished.  In this parish, where the real rent is L. 2720,
were the farms four times the present number, namely 56,
or the lands divided into farms of L. 50 each, which would
amount to much the same number, at least 54, in this case there
would be fifty-four or fifty-six tenants in the parish, instead of
fourteen, the present number; and each of whom might have
a large family of his own, and employ a shepherd, who might
also have a family; and the other inhabitants and cottagers
might be the same in number as at present.  This, surely,
would make a prodigious odds in favour of the population
of the parish, and afford also a sufficient extra number who
would find it necessary to withdraw to the towns and villa-
ges.  Country places, too, are more favourable than towns,
to the rearing of young children: here they are healthier,
and thrive better.-Besides, hinds and shepherds, driven
from their native abodes and manner of life, will be dis-
heartened, and discouraged from marrying: it will be with
difficulty they can afterwards find the means of subsistence.-

     VOL. XXI. C


