
                         KNOCKANDO.                               77

nearer road to Elgin through the Mannoch Hill, about 13 miles in
length; but in winter this road is often impassable, being in some
places in very bad repair. The greater part of the grain exported
from the parish is shipped at Garmouth, the remainder at Lossie-
mouth and Findhorn.
    Village.- The only village is Archiestown, which was built on
the moor of Ballintomb, by the late Sir Archibald Grant of Mony-
musk, about the year 1760, to whom the property then belonged.
By an accidental fire in 1783, the village was partly destroyed.
The ruins of some houses still remain in the same dilapidated con-
dition, but Archiestown is now beginning, Phoenix-like, to rise from
its ashes. Several new houses have been built during the last year,
and three are at present in progress of erection. The village con-
sists of a main street, a square and several bye-lanes, and contains
180 inhabitants.
    Means of Communication, &c.- There is no post-offiee in the
parish; the letters and newspapers are conveyed twice a-week by
a foot-runner to and from the post-office at Craig Elachie. It is
to he hoped that the communication will ere long be more fre-
quent. There is a carrier from Aberdeen to Archierstown, once a
week, who resides in Rothes. There is also a weekly carrier
from the parish to Elgin. The turnpike road from Elgin lead-
ing to Dufftown, Grantown, &c. passes through the parish for
a very short distance between the bridge and the blue scaur of
Craig Elachie. Until lately the parish roads were most miserable.
A central road has now been formed for a considerable distance,
and is expected soon to be completed. The bye roads are in very
bad repair, and several farm-houses are sometimes inaccessible
from the state of the roads. At Wester Elchies, there is a ferry
boat, which affords communication with Charlestown of Aberlour,
&c.; and there is another farther up the river at Black's Boat, in
the parish of Inveraven, which leads to Glenlivat, Tomintoul, &c.
At both ferries, foot-passengers pay ld.; the charge for crossing a
horse is 4d. Besides the bridge of Craig Elachie over the Spey, there
are several bridges of wood and stone over the burns. A new stone
bridge is about to be commenced over the burn of Aldarder; The
fences are in general very insufficient, and, with the exception of
an old hedge or two, consist of rough stone dikes or wooden, pa-
lings- The bridge of Craig Elachie has heen the means of faci-
litating the improvements of this and all the ineighbouring parishes;
and could a wooden or other bridge be erected over the Spey at.


