
			WEST KILBRIDE.                          251

contribute to the common defence of the kingdom. The family of
Kilmarnork, which from about this era rose to be among the most
considerable of the barons of the west, was mainly advanced by the
service of Sir Robert Boyd in the cause of Bruce: Besides ex-
tensive grants of land elswhere, he obtained from that monarch
the estate of Kilbride and Ardneill, in this parish, and which were
long held by his descendants.
	In the unhappy carnage of Pinkie in 1547, the west country
appears to have had but too considerable a share. From Kil-
bride, the lairds of Hunterston and Monfode fell in the fray.
Again at the field of Langside, from their wide depence
on the Lord Boyd, great numbers from this quarter were pre-
sent on the side of the Queen. Robert Boyd of Portincross,
and his eldest son, Archibald, with a great many other of
their name, afterwards obtained remission for their appearance
on that ocassion. Nothing, however, appears to shew that this
parish can claim any distinguished place amongs those " patriotic
bands," who so greatly exalted the name of Scotchmen, by the
noble stand they made in the cause of civil and religious liberty
during the sixteenth and seventeeth centuries, though it is hardly
to be doubted, many individuals, however lowly in place, must
have shared in that fervous of spirit which shone so conspiciously
throughout the west during that memorable period of the national
history. As before noticed, the family of Kilmarnock had much
influence here; and the part which that ever acted in pub-
lic affairs, if we except the service of their founder in the cause
of Bruce, was not certainly such as in any way to entiltle them to
the respect or sypathy of their countrymen. The whole of the
church lands here, which were considerable, were unequally shar-
ed betwixt Alexander, the " good" Earl of Glencairn, and Lord
Boyd. *
	Of the unfortunate smuggling traffic which ensued on the union
of this country with England, the inhabitants of this parish were
unhappily long and deeply participant. Many trace of this de-
moralizing pursuit may still be found in the records of its session,

<FOOTNOTE>The following characteristic anecdote, relative to this parish, is preserved in
Crawfurd's Genealogical Collections in the Advocates' Library. " Mr George Craw-
furd, a son of Thirdpart, was minister at Kilbridge. He was deposed in the strick
times of the Covenants for wardly mindedness and selling a house on the Sabbath
day, as old Portincross (Robert Boyd of Portincross, ' who dyed very aged, near
100 years of age in 1721.--Ibidem.) told me, who knew him minister at Kilbridge,
and was a witness against him at the prosbytery."


