
64               HADDINGTONSHIRE.

Queen; here he met the Earl of Bothwell to concert the murder
of Darnley, during the first week of December 1566.
   Morton, being accused and tried for his share in the King's mur-
der, was openly convicted by an impartial jury of his countrymen,
and finished his guilty career on the scaffold, for the very deed of
which he had unjustly accused his Queen, who had so often par-
doned his crimes and loaded him with favours. The night before
his execution, being examined by the ministers of Edinburgh, he
with his dying breath confessed his guilt.
   It appears that Lethington, as well as Archibald Douglas, was
present in Whittingham at the time referred to, persuading Mor-
ton to take part with them in the King's murder. And no doubt
remains that he yielded to their importunities. *
   The Earl of Morton was forfeited in 1581; but James VI.
soon returned the traitor's estates to his family, which were pos-
sessed by them for a considerable time, till at length the estate
of Whittingham passed to more worthy proprietors. For ear-
ly in the seventeenth century, Viscount Seton of Kingston,                                                            ingston,
married the daughter of Sir Archibald Douglas, who succeeded
her father as heiress of Whittingham, by whom he had eleven
children, six sons and five daughters. Both Archibald, the second
Viscount Kingston, and James, the third Viscount, having died
without issue, the honours became extinct. The Honourable Lady
Elizabeth Seton, the youngest of the family, having survived all
the rest, became heiress of Whittingham. She was married to
the Honourable William Hay of Drummelzier, second son of the
first Earl of Tweeddale, in the year 1695, as appears from the
parish register of marriages: and by this marriage came into the
possession of the estate of Whittingham and Stoneypath Tower.
They had a numerous and highly respectable family of sons and
daughters. The Hays of Drummelsier were long the proprietors
of Whittingliam. They were accounted most excellent landlords,
-were highly esteemed by their equals,-and revered and beloved
by their tenants in every county where they had property. Their
representatives aill retain the same amiable character. This
estate was sold in the year 1817, to James Balfour, Esq. second
son of John Balfour Esq. of Balbirnie,
   Land-Owners.-The principal proprietors of this parish now are,
James Balfour Esq. of Whittingham and Papple, Lord Wemyas,

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Morton's confession, in Richard Bannatyne's continuation of knox's History,
and in the Appendix to Crawford's Memoirs.

                                        4


