
                   ON THE COUNTY OF DUMFRIES.               573

paid for in gold to the ruin of our exchanges; it would relieve
wheat farmers and soils of competition against barley, reducing
the excess of wheat, and rendering it worth cultivating; it would
improve the soil on the best plan, and enrich the pastures, all
which is obstructed by the present most improper system.
	12. The high multures at corn-mills have become oppressive;
and the owners of mills have seen this, and commonly relieved
their own tenants, leaving them at liberty to carry their grain to
any mill, and trusting to free trade for a due regulation of the rates
of mill services. This wotld be all very well if mills were so thick
set, and so good, as, without inconvenience, to give a free choice;
but the distance of some of them and other circumstance prevent
this intended benefit, and when any rate may be demanded at the
mills, there is no certain rule, and there can be no transgression.
The old compensation for both multures and services often comes
to a ninth of the grain; and frequently about an eighteenth is ac-
tually demanded and taken for oats ground into meal. The fair
proportion is now practically settled at some of the best mills, be-
ing half a Stone of meal for kiln-drying sixty bushels of grain, and
the forty-one Stone of meal for the mill dues. It should never ex-
ceed this, as the most intelligent millers themselves now confess;
and if all the offal of barley be returned to the farmers, fourpence
the bushel for grinding is fair enough. The dues for wheat are
generally more uniform and fair; but landholders, whose farms are
thirled to mills belonging to others, can now insist on a commuta-
tion of the multures, by a Sheriff-court process, on the average of
seven years, and then their lands will be free to cultivation to any
extent, and at any mills they will only have to pay for the ordinary
dues as above-mentioned. These are matters of importance in
this county.
	13. The union of Great Britain with Ireland has not yet been
attdnded with any benefit to the county of Dumfries. Increasing
numbers of half-bred cattle, and quantities of inferior produce of
land, have interfered in the markets, prematurely drawn away
from the Irish population. Great numbers of poor people also
come over as half or common beggars; and if labourers from Ire-
land happen to be employed, they commonly leave improper bur-
dens, or an immoral taint behind them. Exceptions there are, in-
deed, but these are very few in number.
	14. The poor of Dumfries-shire are commonly well attended
to; and, except out of two or three parishes, few of them wander


