
                          BEITH.                         579

women and children to be placed in the rear, and to us every
method in their power to encourage those engaged in the combat;
but this notion of a battle is purely fanciful, and who fought, fell,
fled, or conquered at this "famous victory," must remain for ever
undescribed by poet or historians. But if we view this hill as a
seat of Druidism, we have a dawning of light. Dr Jamieson is of
opinion that Druidism was not extinct in Scotland in the age of
Columba, 563-597, and there is reason for believing that it was
restored by the Saxons, after it had been abolished by the Roman
emperors. If so, it must bave been the religion of this part of
the country, a short time previous to the age of St Inan. Holding
this hill as a seat of Druidism, we have a corroborative testimony
in the etymology of the name. It is called Cuff Hill. Now we
learn from Bede, that the chief-priest of the Druids was called
Coifi Cuifi, or Cuivi. Either of these names can be easily cor-
rupted into Cuffi or Cuff, and thus the hill may have received its
appellation from being the seat of the Druidical worship. Besides,
the word Cuffoeth, in the ancient British language, signifies the
Holy Place, "Cor Kyveoth," which is pronounced Cuffoeth, is
the name of Stonehenge in that language. This opinion is sup-
ported by that of Dr Macpherson, in his Critical Dissertations,
who thinks Coifi was the common title of every Druidical stiperin-
tendant of spiritual affairs. It is now stated as a plausible guess
at the origin of the name of the hill. There are other places of
similar name, and which probably had the same origin. Thus, in
the Acta Dominorum Concilii, under date 6th March 1491, there
is a case, where Gilbert Kennedy of the Coiff is defender, and Fer-
gus Kennedy of Cardonald is pursuer; and, in Pitcairn's Trial,
Thomas Kennedy of Coiff, is one of a long list of that name, di-
lated of a cruel slaughter in 1528. These places are in different
parts of the country, and are noticed only as tracing the corruption
of the word Coifi, which is not so marked as the substitution of
Tenant for St Inan.
	On the lands of Hill of Beith, there is one of those, moothills on
which our ancestors received the award of their judges. We have
good evidence of such places being used as the seat of legislation
as well as judicature, but when the custom ceased, it is difficult
to say for, like many other customs, it disappeared gradually,
and the changes is not noticed by historians. The montlill of
Beith being in a barony belonging to the church, was of course
the place of judgment from which the Abbot of Kilwinning ad-


