
               KILBARCHAN.                              357

ly felt tooccasion something morbid in the lower extremities, unless
where the constitution is sound, and the habits of living correctly. re-
gular. The cholera. of 1832 showed itself here after midsummer,
and numbered only five victims. A fearful proportion of deaths took
place in Linwood, among a population not nearly half the number
of that of this village. This parish may be regarded as in general
healthy; and individuals often attain a very advanced age. Mr
Robert Semple, of the ancient family of Beltrees, died, here in
1789, aged 108.
Hydrography.-In the western and more elevated division of
this parish, springs are abundant, and the water of excellent qua-
lit,y. In the eastern section, which is level and richer in the pro-
duce of the soil, the spridgs are comparatively few, and of a qua-
lity quite inferior; but rendered, by the simple process of filtra-
tion, now very generally adopted, perfectly fit for every purpose.
A petrifying, or rather encrusting, spring was, some years ago, dis-
covered on the banks of, the Locher, from which many beautiful
specimens of deiidritic carbonate of lime have been procured. The
substances subjected to its action were preserved entire within the
crusl Some years ago, a mineral or medicinal spring at Candren,
near Linwood village, attracted considerable notice for its sanatory
virtues. The water was subjected to chemical analysis by Dr
Lyell, who ascertained its similarity to some others farther fam-
ed and more frequented; where the result of a change of scene,
and sometimes of climate also, may be indiscriminately attributed
to the health-restoring qualities of the favourite spring. This,
however, as it is locally situated on the right bank of the Cart,
although in the near vicinity of the above-mentioned flourisbirvg
village, will no doubt fall to be-more particularly noticed in the
account of the Abbey parish.
Besides the only two considerable rivers, viz. Black Cart and
Gryfe, which form the natural boundaries of this parish on the
south and north respectively, there is a pretty considei-able,stream
named Locher. While Black Cart issues from its parent lake at
Castiesemple, on the southwest angle of this parish, close upon
the boundary which separates it from Lochwinnoch, the Gryfe
has its source in the moors immediately above Greenock. Locher
is a tributary of the Gryfe, into which it pours its stream about a
mile below the House of Craigends; which is built almost literal
on the right bank of the former river. The Black Cart, from its
confluence with the Gryfe not far from the House of Walkinshav,


