
                         GREENLAW.                           41

is a loch in the moor north of the town, called the Huille moss
or loch. It is of small extent, and of no great depth.
   The Blackadder or Blackwater, which is joined by a small
stream, called the Faungrass, about two miles above Greenlaw, is
the only river that runs through the parish. Advantage is taken
of it for the purpose of working the machinery of one fulling-mill,
one lint-mill, and two common flour-mills, which have been erected
on its banks. The water of the Blackadder (though its colour is
black) is exceedingly pure. The engineers appointed to equalize
the weights and measures of the county found it nearly correspond
to the weight of distilled water.
   Geology.-The Blackadder divides the parish into two parts,
which differ remarkably from each other in their external charac-
ter. The southern division is covered with a deep soil, which pro-
duces excellent crops of grain, and belongs to the new red sandstone
formation. The northern division, on the contrary, consists of a
wild moor, clothed with heaths, (Calluna vulgaris, Erica Tetralix et
cinerea), moor-grasses, and the rein-deer lichen (Cenomyce rangife-
rina). Where the Blackadder leaves the parish a coarse white
sandstone is exposed, and over it lies a dark claystone porphyry.
   Along the course of the river, above the town, its banks, which
are high and precipitous, exhibit a section, and afford inexhausti-
ble quarries of red sandstone. This rock, which, is rather soft,
has a clay, basis, and the fracture presents occasional portions
of a white sandstone. The sandstone is covered by a thick
coat of red clay, evidently derived from the disintegration of the
substrata, and extends as far as the transition range of the Lam-
mermoors, where it becomes gradually harder and coarse granu-
lar, and passes into greywacke. Hence the northern division of
the parish belongs to the old red sandstone formation. Across
the moor, in the upper part of the parish, runs an irregular gravelly
ridge, called the Kaimes. The Kaimes extend upwards of two
miles. The ridge is about 50 feet broad at the base, and between
30 and 40 feet in height. The ground on the north side is boggy;
and on the south is an extensive moss, called Dugden Moss.
   The Kaimes are evidently a natural production, and in endea-
vouring to account for their formation, it is to be observed that
the stones scattered over the fields towards the Tweed consist
principally of greywacke, which must have been detached and car-
ried thither from the rocks of Lammermoor hills by the agency of
a current of water setting in from the north towards the south;


