
     Statistical Account

   Language. - The Gaelic is the mother tongue of the
natives; and, it is thought, that in this, and some neigh-
bouring parishes, it is spoken in its greatest purity.  Though
the Gaelic be the original language, there are very few people,
especially of the younger class, who do not understand and
speak English.  It is remarkable, yet not the lets true, that
the illiterate Highlander, who is a stranger to every other
language but the Gaelic, speaks it more fluently, more ele-
gantly, and more purely, than the scholar*.

   Village.-Maryburgh, or Gordonsburgh, is the only one of
note in the parish, and is situated upon the sea shore, South
side of Locheile, within a few yards to the south-west of
Fort-Willam.  Anciently, the place where it stands, was called
Auchintore-beg.  The village was then built on the ground
where the Esplanade is now.  It was after the accession of
the Prince of Orange to the British throne, that it obtained
the name of Maryburgh, in honour of his royal comfort.  For
some time past, it has been indiscriminately called Maryburgh
and Gordonsburgh, from the family of Gordon, whose pro-

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*The name of almost every place in Caledonia, is derived from the Gaelic;
so that it is unnecessary to enumerate many instances.  Corpach, a place close to
the shore, on an angle of Locheile, is a compound, signifying the field  of corpses.
It is well known, that men of note were anciently interred in Iona.  Such as
were brought from the north of this, parish, were kept in state at Corpach for a
night, or perhaps longer.  Hence the original of the name.  O ch is another
place upon the shore of Lochleven, where the dead, brought from Perthslure,
were embarked for the consecrated ground of Iona, and means a grean, or deep
conflicting sigh of lamentation.  Perhaps women were hired to set up the Care-
each.  Lochaber, or Loch-nu-capper, signifies the Lake of Horns.  Indeed it deserves
not the name of lake, being a small pool an the moss of Corpach.  The tradition
is, that the deer, in the routing season, fought about this lake, and lost their
horns.  Hence the whole country has received its name.

</UNREADABLE>

     1


