
			OLD CUMNOCK.                         487

than painting. Ingenuity creates endless and ever increasing, va-
rieties of cheques; and many of them are most beautiful in point
of pattern and figure, as well as of the most exquisite delicacy in
point of colouring.
   The yearly value of the boxes made in Cumnock may average
about L. 1600 Sterling; while fifteen years ago, the same number
of boxes would have brought L. 6000 Sterling. The total num-
ber of persons employed in this manufacture is about 50. The
period of work is eleven hours a day.
   There is a pottery in the town, in which brown ware of a very
superior quality is made. Clay of the best kind is to be had in
the parish.
   There is likewise a manufactory of thrashing-machines, cheese
presses, &c., in the town. The thrashing-mills made in it are of
the very best construction, and are held in high repute through-
out the west of Scotland. A conqiderable number are sent to Ire-
land.
   Weaving in its various branches forms the chief manufacture in
the town. When trade is brisk, there are more than 120 looms
at work.
   Hand-sewing is also a common employment among women and
girls, and they are very dexterous and tasteful in the execution of
their work.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Town of Cumnock.--Cumnock was erected in the year 1509
into a free burgh of barony, by a charter from James IV., and li-
berty was given to the prebendary of Cumnock, and his succes-
sors, to let his glebe in borough roods for building.
   Fairs.--There are several annual fairs held in the town. It
has a baron bailie, who is appointed by the Marquis of Bute.
   The town of Cumnock is snugly and finely situated in A hollow,
at the confluence of the Glasnock and Lugar waters. The prin-
cipal part of the town is a quadrangular space, called the Square,
formerly the burying-ground, but now the market place, which
is surrounded by houses most of them of recent erection. In the
centre of the square, stands the parish church. There are besides
the square, three pretty long streets, in which there are some very
good houses. The rest of the town consists of very narrow lanes,
irregularly built. The town in general is pretty clean and health-
ful. The beauty of its situation, combined with the pictureque
banks of the Lugar, and the fine woodlands in the vicinity, to-


