
                              EDINBURGH.                   617

It is almost perpendicular on the west and south-west side and
at its base is a deep hollow valley, which formerly was filled with
water, but which is now partially levelled, and converted into
gardens. The south and east sides, which were exposed some
years ago, in forming the new south approach, exhibit an interest-
ing section of the igneous rock coming into contact with the sand-
stone strata. At the point of contact, and for some distance be-
yond, the sandstone and shale are much distorted and broken into
fragments, illustrating the fact that the materials composing the
sandstone must have been consolidated previously to their eleva-
tion and disruption by the trap. In another artificial section made
lower down in the Cowgate, a different rock of the trap series, but
probably of an older eruption, was displayed several years ago.
   The Calton Hill includes the eminence on which the jail and
bridewell is built, as well as that on the summit of which stands
Nelson's Monument. The highest and most precipitous portion
is to the north and west, from whence to the east and north-east
it gradually slopes. Around the western base the ground is hol-
low. The height of the hill is 3. 56 feet above the level of the
sea. The mass of this hill is composed of claystone and clay-
stone porphyry, with occasionally greenstone intersected with nu-
merous veins of carbonate of lime and quartz. On the south cor-
ner, approaching the hill by the stairs from Waterloo Place, the
rock has a conglomerated structure. Proceeding to the north-
east, the rock consists of a brown argillaceous base, with frag-
ments of felspar intermixed, assuming a porphyritic appearance.
This forms the prevailing rock all around, but it occasionally
passes, especially on the summit, into a soft claystone tinged with
brown iron ore, and not unlike hematitic iron ore in aspect. As
the weather acts on this rock, it appears in many places to scale
off, leaving rounded circular masses.
   The section exposed to the north and north-east, in digging
out the foundations of the houses in Royal Terrace, exhibits the
following order of strata. The lowest lying strata on the right
consists of alternating beds of compact yellow sandstone alternat-
ing with shale and blue clay, and dipping at an angle of about
25ø to the east. About fifty yards onwards, and in the middle of
the section, the close-grained sandstone passes into a conglome-
rate. These layers of conglomerate vary somewhat. It is com-
posed of a basis of clayey matter, in some parts bluish and muddy
looking; in others of a clearer yellowish colour. In this mass are


