
40                   	   KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	It is stated that there was at one time a nunnery in the parish
of Kirkchrist; and it is probable that the site must have been in
the southern part of that parish, though the exact spot cannot be
ascertained. There are still two farms there, bearing the name
of High and Low Nunton, and the Nununill adjoins to them. In
the last Statistical Account it is mentioned, that there were the
ruins of a castle upon the Nunton, Nothing, now remains of these
ruins, except come mounds covered with grass; but there are per-
sons still living who remember the old tower, and the stair's by
which, when children, they were in the practice of ascending it.
	The only ancient, building now remaining in the parish is the
Castle of Compston, which is in a very ruinous condition, only
three sides of the tower being left, and even these threatening to
fall.
	Land-owners.--There are sixteen proprietors in the parish
The chief of these are, the Earl of Selkirk, patron of the parish,
who possesses nearly one-half of the land in value, though not in
extent; Mr Maitland of Dundrennan, who resides at Compston,
in this parish; and Mr M'Millan of Barwhinnock, who also re-
sides upon his property here.
	Mansion Houses.--The houses of Compston and Barwhinnock
have been built by the present proprietors. They are substantial
and convenient.
	Modern Buildings.--The church was built in 1818. It is a
neat and plain building, well suited to the parish, and furnishing
accomodation for rather more than 400 sitters. The old church
was built in 1730, at which time the situation of the church and
churchyard were changed,--the former church having stood near-
ly a quarter of a mile south from the present site.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial records and registers have
been by no means regularly kept, and part of them were consumed
by fire. The oldest volume in existence contains the records of
the kirk-session mixed up with a register of births and marriages
from 1693 till 27th October 1703.
	In this volume of records there are many entries that ate inte-
resting and valuable, as showing the state of the people at that
time. From 27th October 1703 till 14th June 1730, there is a
blank in the records. From this last date, there are occasional
entries till May 21st 1741. There is then another blank, with
the exception of a few loose leaves that appear to have been the
scrolls of the session-clerk till 4th April 1762, and the entries
are continued at intervals till 29th April 1804. The register of


