
42                         CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

nants, having always a home, food, and fuel, do not, perhaps, be-
stir themselves so much as they ought.
   Poaching prevails to a considerable extent among the young
men, when there is snow on the ground. Smuggling is unknown,
with the exception of small quantities of foreign spirits got by the
fishermen from vessels passing the frith, and making a little malt
for ale. But all that is done in either way is quite trifling.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The general employment of the people is agriculture and
fishing. On the coast all are, to a certain extent, fishermen.
After laying down their crofts in spring, they proceed to the lob-
ster fishing. In the end of May and June, they cut their peats,
and prepare for the herring fishing, which commences to the west
of Thurso about the 1st of July, and sets in at Wick about the
18th. The whole fishermen and most of the young females set off
for that station, and remain there for six weeks. They come home
in September, get their crops cut, and potatoes dug and be take them-
selves again to the fishing of cod, saithes, and silags. This is the
ordinary routine with the coast side population. In the interior, most
of the cottagers go to- the hereng fishing, and are employed by the
proprietors or larger farmers at the harvest, when not needed at
home, and afterwards at draining, ditching, and other agricultural
operations. There is also a number of shoemakers, tailors, smith,
wrights, and weavers in the parish, but all hold more or less land,
and a great portion of them are at some seasons fishermen. The
above is the most numerous class in the parish. The next is the
tenant, paying from L. 15 to L. 50 rent, who follows no profession
save agriculture, and that generally in its ancient form, viz. bear
and oats alternately. Most of them, however, now grow a few
turnips and a little clover, and are decidedly improving; but, partly
from want of skill, - capital, and encouragement from proprietors in
leases, fencing, and, draininf, they have made little progress in
improving their farms or bettering their own condition. From the
circumstance of the produce of the county far exceeding the wants
of the population, especially the growth of beef and mutton, and
the meansof transport by steam being in operation., it is a ques-
note whether this class can long hold land, either with benefit to
themselves or the proprietors, unless they exert themselves, and
produce articles fit for the market, seeing that land is much lower
reuted here than farther south. And the southern markets being



