
392                           FORFASHIRE.

schools in the neighbouring parishes.  Notwithstanding, the low
rate of fees, it cannot be said that the people are sufficiently alive
to the benefits of education.   As soon as the, majority of the ope-
ratives can speak of manufacture, and speculate on parliamentary
preceedings, they have attained their acme of intellectual cultiva-
tion.   The father allows his children to attend school until they
can read thd Bible; but an ordinary acquaintance with the ele-
ments of of arithmethic, &c. is a luxury to be classed with the study
of the dead languages, and is chiefly confined to the sons of the
wealthy and comparatively independent.
	Literature.--There is a parochial library, which owes its com-
mencement to James Douglas, Esq. of Cavers, who resented 72
volumes for that purpose in 1827.  It was some years ago in-
creased by James Mudie, Esq. of Pitmuies.  Its management is
vested in the kirk-session, and the books are eagerly sought after
by the parishioners.  It is chiefly composed of religious books.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--At present, the number of pau-
pers is 13, besides those who get occasional relief.  Each at an
average gets an allowance of L.5, 2s. annually.  There are week-
ly collections at church, each averaging 1 1s. 6 1/2d., which go to-
wards their support.  Besides, there belongs to them a sum of
L.260,* which is at interest;, and they have the proceeds of a few
seat rents in the church.  It is but right to mention that Miss
Gardyne of Middleton, at her decease in 1831, beqeathed L.14
to, the poor's fund, and her sister, Miss Grizel, left L.20 to the
same charity
	Inns, Alehouses, &c.--The number of alehouses is six, but it
cannot be said that the parishioners are at all addicted to ine-
briety.  All the alehotsds are in the quoad sacra parish of Friock-
heim.
	Fuel.--Neweastle coal is the chief fuel used in this quarter;
and Arbroath is the nearest harbour whence it can be procured.
It usually costs about 14s. the cart-load of twelve barrels, exclu-
sive of carriage; which latter will no doubt be considerably re-
duced by tbe opening of the railway formerly mentioned.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the date of the last Statistical Account, the appearance
of this parish has been entirely changed.   Old plantations have
been cut away, and houses and fields of grain occupy their locali-

         * This sum has been greatly drawn upon, and diminished of late years, by the in-
creasing demands demands of pauperism.


