
                               ST FERGUS.                          19l

<TABLE>
Nassa incrassata			   Alasmodon mwgaritiferum
Purpura lapillus			   Cardium edule
Buccinum undatum		         Mactra solida
Fusus antiquus			   Donax trunculus
----- corneus			   Amphidesma prismatica
Rostellaria pes-pelecani	   Cyprina Islandica
Patella vulgata			   Venus gallina
------- levis			   Venerupis pullastra
Pecten varius			   --------- Virginea
------ sinuosus			   Balanus communis
Anomia ephippium			   Vermilia vermicularis
Mytilus edulis, var. incrassatus Heterodisca reversa
Modiolus vulgaris			   Chiton marginatus.
Anodon Anatious

   Insects, &c.-The insects most destructive to vegetation in this
parish, so far as the observation of the writer extends, are the
Limax agrestis, or grub-worm, the Papilio napi, the Tipula iritici,
and common caterpillar; seldom a summer passes in which the
gooseberry bushes do not suffer severely from the ravages of these
larvae.  The only remedy which has been found efficient in this
neighbourhood, is to water the bushes in the evening, and imme-
diately after to dust the under part of the leaves with hot lime;
but this must be done as soon as the eggs are discovered.  There
is a disease called segging or bushing to which the braird of oats
in this parish is very liable on highly cultivated land; and which
is evidently occasioned by some insect, though its distinctive charac-
ter has not been ascertained.  The Curculio pini; from the rava-
ges of this insect, and the clay subsoil, the larch tree has never
thriven in this parish.  The Curculio pyri is often seen on the
wall trees in the manse garden.
   Botany.-In a parish where the plough holds such an extensive
dominion the Flora cannot be expected to be very interesting.  The
following is a list of such plants as seem deserving of being enu-
merated in a work of this kind.
   Anemone nemorosa, only in one location, on the banks of the
Ugie, nearly opposite to Raven's Craig; Arenaria peploides;
Botrychium Lunaria; Chrysosplenium oppositifolium; Corydalis
claviculata; Drosera longifolia, rare, the only location with which
the writer is acquainted is in the moss lying between St Fergus
and Crimond; Echium vulgare, very rare, only one plant having
been discovered some years ago on the farm of Ednic, which had
most probably been introduced among seed corn from England;
Euphrasia officinalis, most abundant; Gentiana anarella and
campestris, the latter very abundant; Geum urbanum, rare, found
chiefly about Inverugie; Glechoma hederacea, rare in general, but
most abundant in the neighbourhood of the Kirktown;  Habenaria


