
                         KILSYTH.                        143

equal to the richest in Scotland.  Draining is still in its infancy:
its advantages, however, are already seen.
     The soil of the parish should be classed into three kinds, be-
sides the hill pasture, viz. l. The rich alluvial soil lying in the
lower part of the strath, interspersed with the moss of Dullatur
bopg; red moss and Inchterff moss, which form but a very minute 
portion of the strath, not exceeding 100 acres, while the rich al-
luvial part of the strath in the parish is about from 1200 to 1500
acres, or nearly one-third of the arable lands of the parish.  2.
The gravelly and sandy strath, running the whole length of the
parish, along the edge of the above described rich alluvial soil,
and, betwixt that and the higher arable land; this gravelly sandy
strath is boundedon its north-edge, by a large dike or break in the
strata.  3. The tilly or clayey strath, running along the northern
boundary of the gravelly and sandy, and between that and the hill
pasture.  This is the coal district of the parish, and of course, the
worst and most unproductive land of the parish, comprehending per- 
haps three-fifths of the arable lands of the whole parish: the soil is
tilly, close-bottomed, and not alluminous, consequently very infe-
rior. 4. The hill pasture and grass farms are covered with fine rich
pasturage for cattle and sheep, to the summit of the hills.
     Lime.-The lime at the west side in the West Barony, de-
serves the enconium bestowed on it in the last Account.  About
1806, the late Mr Neilson became the tenant of all the coal
and lime on the state of Kilsyth, belonging to Sir Charles, now
Sir Archibald Edmonston.  He extended and improved the lime-
workings, and sold during his lifetime, at an average, nearly to
the amount of L.2000 yearly, to the surrounding country.  At his
death (1819), the work began to half off.  At present, there is not
one-twentieth part of the quantity sold at these works.  The chief
reason is, that the present tenant, Mr James Marshall, directs his
capital of the coal trade, which is still more important and pro-
fitable.  The working of lime at Berryhill is entirely abondoned.
     There are other posts of limestone in the same line, which have
never been wrought, except a small quantity by Mr Bow of good lime,
farther down the hill at Riskend, dipping towards the above lands,
never yet wrought.  In 1825, the present proprietor of Kilsyth
estate caused the mines at Corrie to be opened.  As far as could
be discovered, the veins had been exhausted.  Every mine and
shaft was cleared out, which had formely been opened.  From the





