
                  ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                       945

which, rising in Eldrig moor, in the parish of Kilbride, and flowing
through a considerable part of that parish under the name of
Park burn, reaches the parish of Blantyre, at a point where it is
joined by the Rottenburn, forms the boundary between that pa-
rish and Kilbride, and Cambuslang, and falls into the Clyde at
Turnwheel; the Kelvin, which, rising in Kilsyth parish, Stirlingshire,
flows along the northern boundary of the county, bordering Govan
parish on the east, and part of the Barony parish of Glasgow on
the west, and joins the Clyde near the village of Govan.
   There are few lakes of any consequence in this county.  The
Craneloch in Dunsyre parish, elevated 800 feet above the water
level, in a bleak inhospitable desert, is about a mile in circumfe-
rence.  The White Loch, to the west of the village of Carnwath,
is about the same extent, but is finely wooded on the south and
west sides.  Langloch, to the south-east of the parish of Lanark,
between the town of Lanark and Hyndford Bridge, although nar-
row, is of considerable length.  In Old Monkland are Bishop's
Loch, covering a space of 80 acres, Woodend Loch, 50 acres, and
Lochend, 40 acres.  In Cadder parish there are two lochs, one of
considerable extent in the centre of the parish, called Lum-
loch, the other called Loch Grog, which, in consequence of drain-
ing, are now almost dry, and capable of tillage; besides these are
Robroyston Loch, which is fast filling up; Johnston Loch about a
mile in circumference; and Gartinqueen Loch, supplied by a
streamlet from the parish of New Monkland.  In the Barony pa-
rish of Glasgow are the Slogganfield and Frankfield lochs, which
supply streams for the town mills.  But the largest and most im-
portant lake in the county is the reservoir for supplying the Forth
and Clyde and the Monkland canals.  That reservoir is formed by
art, and covers about 300 acres of land, situate in the parishes of
New Monkland and Shotts.  These canals themselves form, next
to the Clyde, the most interesting feature in the hydrography of
the county.  The Monkland Canal, issuing from the above-men-
tioned reservoir, proceeds nearly north west to Glasgow, affording a
cheap communication between that city and the collieries of Old and
New Monkland, and yields a revenue of about L.15,000.  The Forth
and Clyde Canal passes through the Barony parish and Cadder.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--In the southern extremity of the Coun-
ty, the mountain ranges are chiefly composed of greywacke and trap-
rocks.  These indeed are the predominant rocks in the extensive
range of hills which runs from the confines of Ayrshire eastward to


