
			COYLTON.                             663

comfort, a model for a place of worship. The design was by David
Bryce, Esq. Edinburgh, who made it to suit the views of the late
John Hamilton, Esq. of Sundrum. This gentleman, who took a
warm interest in whateverhe thought would promote the improvement
and well-being of the parish, besides gifting the site, contributed,
by extra advances, to finish it in a very substantial and tasteful
manner. It has a square, tower upwards of sixty feet high; and a
bell very superior to what is attached to most country churches.
Its weight is about 12 cwt., and it cost L. 100. The church
contains 744 sittings, none of which are let: 576 are appropriat-
ed by heritors and their tenants, and 168 considerately left free
to accommodate the feuars, cottagers, and poor. Although the
church is in the centre of the parish, the great distance of some
parts, and other causes, prevent, in bad weather, the attendance
from being so regular as it otherwise would.
	All the inhabitants are connected with the Established Church,
with the exception of six families, who are Roman Catholics; one
belonging to the Relief; one to the United Secession; one to the
Associate Synod of Original Seceders; and two or three individu-
als in the capacity of labourers or servants, connected with one or
other of these bodies. For the last six or seven years, the ave-
rage number of communicants in the parish church has been 500.
The average amount of collections for the last three years, de-
ducting mortcloth dues, &c. is L. 56, 1s. 5d. For several years,
there have been regular contributions from the parish, for religious
and educational purposes. These, till lately, exceeded L. 24 an-
nually. Of this amount about L. 18 have been yearly transmitted
to the funds of the General Assembly's Schemes.
	The manse is new, and very commodious. It was built in 1839,
in the most substantial manner. The stipend is 23 bolls, 3 firlots,
1 peck, 3 1/4 lippies bear, 8 Winchester bushels per boll; 42 bolls,
1 firlot, 3 pecks, 1 1/4 lippies, meal; and L. 192, 1s. 2d. Sterling.
The glebe, including the garden and site of manse and offices,
amounts to 6 acres, 3 roods, and 26 falls, Scotch measure, and is
of L. 12 yearly value.
	Education.--There is one parochial school, in the centre of the
parish, although not perhaps of the population. In a parish so
narrow, and extending five or six miles on each side of the parish
school, it is impossible it can be accessible to many children till they
are some years beyond the age when the work of education should
be commenced. From this cause, private schools for elementary
branches have at various times been set up in different parts. There



