
                      CROY AND DALCROSS.                         451

nance a very opposite inference, as Is oil leam nach robh do luadh
fo charn clach, I wish your ashes were under a cairn; 'B' fhearr
learn bhi fo charn chlach, I would rather be an outlaw. Yet it can
hardly be supposed that such care would have been taken of the ashes
of criminals, as that succeeding ages would show such pious pains
to perpetuate their memory. There is another Druidical circle of
extraordinary dimensions, perfectly entire in Midleys, surrounded
by a deep fosse. The stones are all of such prodigious size, that
it is difficult even to imagine how, without the combination of great
mechanical powers, they could be carried up the steep ascent.
  Records of Session.-From 1640 to 1789, the parish records
were kept with singular care. The collections for the poor, and
texts of Scripture, regularly entered. The names and residences
of the various delinquents, with inquisitorial minuteness, are all
recorded, from 1640 to 1720, a period looked on by many as the
golden age of the church. Whatever may have been the case else-
where, this parish was certainly then ranked with every spe-
cies of abomination. In the black catalogue, besides the sin of
uncleanness, may be mentioned,-drying and grinding corn and
killing salmon on the Sabbath; brawling, drunkenness, and fight-
ing in Church; defamation of character; fightings at lykwakes;
casting the sieve and the sheers; and not a few for endeavouring
to compass their neighbour's death by charms, spells, and many
kindred follies. The cutty-stool got little rest; and, so late
as 1748, a thoughtless wight, on the death of his aged mother, on a
Sabbath evening, called together his ungodly neighbours to testify
his sorrow by a dance, which was continued with great glee until
Monday morning, for which unseasonable and unseemly mirtb, he
and his fiddler had to appear in sober weeds for six consecutive
Sabbaths, on the said index expurgatorius,-no doubt to the great
edification of the congregation, as the records do not furnish a
similar demonstration of sorrow till the present day.
  The only event worthy to be recorded, is the battle of Culloden,
fought 16th April 1746, on a bleak moor five miles south west of
the church. The particulars have been so often and so mi-
nutely, and by Chambers, so faithfully and circumstantially
narrated, that hardly anything farther can be said It may,
however, be proper to observe, that there was one deed of such
atrocious and execrable foulness, as can hardly find a parallel
in the annals of the most bloody and ruthless tyrants of ancient
or modern times, and which, though denied by the sycophants of the


