
382     	              ROSS AND CROMARTY.

with wood, and the richest and, choicest collection of native plants.
And at the entrance to Munlochy Bay, there is a large mass of
similar material, which, according to tradition, was once covered
with stately oak timber, but which now, whatever has been the
cause of the great change, presents no trace of such a forest, and
indeed over two-thirds  of the mass seems to be completely denud-
ed of the soil, and presents in its curiously formed circular peaks
and basons of bare rock.-a very apt miniature resemblance to a
volcanic range. At these two places there are detached portions
of rock-but otherwise, the whole shore is sandy and gravelly,
with bere,and there an occasional small boulder. The upper
portion of Munlochy Bay is formed of a deep blue clay, which, if
reclaimed, and it might be reclaimed at no great expense, would
form avaluable addition to the agricultural portion of the district.
  Climate.--The air is generally dry and healthy. There are 44
of the inhabitants of this parish above seventy years of age. There
are no distempers peculiar to this parish ; but it may be here
mentioned, that in 1833, considerable havoc was made in the vil-
lage by cholera.
   Hydrography.-The waters of the Moray Frith, and also of
Munlochy Bay, which bound the southern, and part of the west-
ern sides of the parish, are dark-coloured, but perfectly salt at
all times of the tide. The tide recedes one-fourth of a mile op-
posite the village of Avoch where the breadth of the Frith is
about three miles. As the tides come through the Pentland
Frith  they are always raised by a westerly, and depressed by an
easterly wind. The highest stream tides rise from sixteen to eigbteen
feet; the highest neap tides from eight to ten feet. The whole of
the parish, with the exception of the south side of the second
ridge, called Tourie Lum, is well supplied with  excellent water
from perennial springs.  There are two on the north side of the
village of peculiarly excellent quality, Hainuck and Charles's. But
the one of grdat celebrity is Craiguck, on the estate of Bennetsfield,
which is annually resorted to by  numbers of invalids --, at any rate
by numbers who fancy themselves to be invalids,--early on the first
Sabbath morning of May, old style, from various parts of the country.
Previous to partaking of it, the propitiatory oblation has sometimes
been rigidly observed -- namely, of spilling a portion of the water
upon the ground three times, and of affixing an offering of a rug,
which is suspended upon a bramble bush that overhangs it --which,
from the traditionary antiquity of the custom, might appear to re-


