
52                     SHETLAND.

bourhood, and who use every art to engage the young men in
drinking to the great injury of their morals, and the waste of their
substance. The population, with a few exceptions, is in general
sober, yet the quantity of ardent spirits exhausted in the parish,
was some years ago very great, equalling in value one-half of the
rent of the island. There is now a great change. The institu-
tion of a Temperance Society in November 1831, has produced a
very happy effect. The quantity of liquors now exhausted in the
parish, is less than the half of what it formerly was.
   Fuel.-Peats from the hills of Valleyfield and Saxa Vord, are
the only article of fuel used by the tenantry, and are procured by
many at no small labour and expense, especially on the east side of
the island, where peat-moss is completely exhausted. Besides the
labour of cutting and drying them, the people are obliged to em-
ploy from eight to ten horses, for the space of five or six weeks,
every summer, to carry them home, and these must be attended
by a person to put on the loads, and one or two boys to drive the
horses. Most of the gentry use a considerable quantity of English
coal.
             MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Very considerable changes have taken place here, since the last
Statistical Account was published, some of which have been glanced
at in the course of the foregoing observations. The farms are now
smaller, and more adapted for a population of fishermen, whose
avocations allow them but little time for farm-work, and who have
but very little inclination for it. They are, however, sufficiently
large to supply them with meal, potatoes, cabbages, &c.; and to
enable them to keep a sufficient number of milch cows, horses,
sheep, and some pigs; and they have at all times an abundant
supply of the best fish, both for family use and for the market.
Favourable seasons and successful fishings have placed many of
them in easy circumstances, and enabled them to indulge in the
luxury of tea, formerly little known among them, but now used in
the greater number of families twice every day.
   In consequence of the reduction of the size of tbe farms, ploughs
have entirely disappeared from amongst the tenantry. That im-
plement of husbandry is now only employed on the farms of the

<FOOTNOTE>Since this statement was drawn up, a society has been formed in this parish, based
on the principle of total abstinence from all intoxicating liquors, and which already
numbers upwards of 350 members. Two of the most extensive spirit-dealers in the
parish have wholly abandoned the traffic, from conscientious convictions of its im-
propriety; and it is hoped the rest will soon be led to adopt the same course.


