
                             ISLAND OF SKYE-STRATH.                 311

      supplies an extensive district with lime of a superior quality.  To
      the public it is sold at 9d. per boll; but Lord Macdonald, with his
      usual attention to the interests of his tenants, binds the lessee of
      the lime kiln to supply them with lime for building at 6d. ; and
      for land at 4d. per boll.
         Fisheries.--The herring-fishing was at one time so productive
      in the bays of the parish, that 60 or 70 vessels, averaging about
      40 tons, were annually engaged in it, and many of them carrying
      away several cargoes in the course of the year.  It is still prose-
      cuted with considerable vigour, but for many years back with very
      indifferent success; so much so, indeed, that where 60 or 70
      vessels could formerly be loaded in a few weeks, one could
      not now be loaded in the course of a whole season.  The
      failure of this most important source of emolument to many a
      poor and industrious fisherman on the west coast, is co‰val with,
      and by many ascribed to the destruction of such countless multi-
      tudes of this prolific fish at the spawning season, on the east coast
      of Scotland.  The cod and ling fishing is carried on during the
      months of January, February, March, and April.  In favourable
      years, those engaged in it realize from L. 3 to L. 4 per man, be-
      sides having an abundant supply of other fish for the use of their
      own families.  Salmon-fishing is carried on, but not on a very ex-
      tensive scale.  It closes on the 14th of September, and does not
      generally commence until the middle of May.
                            V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
          Market-Town.--At Broadford three markets are annually held
      for the sale of black-cattle and horses.
          Means of Communication.--Broadford is likewise a post-town,
      where the mails arrive and are despatched three times a week.
      Within the incumbent's recollection, letters from London took ten
      days in reaching Broadford, but now they arrive there on the third
      night.
         From Broadford the mails are carried across Kyleakin ferry, by
      a runner to Lochcarron, whence they are conveyed to Dingwall
      by a gig, having accommodation for the conveyance of passengers.
         About thirty miles of Parliamentary road, and ten of statute la-
      bour, pass in different directions through the parish.  During the
      summer and harvest months we have a regular weekly communi-
      cation with Glasgow by steam-boats; but in winter they ply only
      once a fortnight.  Not many years ago, the voyage from Skye to
      the Clyde generally, occupied from ten to fifteen days while now
      it is usually performed in about thirty-six hours.


