
260                               FORFARSHIRE.

	Literature.--A parochial library* was instituted in this parish
in the year 1809,--the first in this district of these valuable institu-
tions, and it now contains 590 volumes. More recently, a smaller
collection of about 190 volumes has been provided for the village
of Ferryden, and another of 96 volumes for the village of Usan.
The books in all these libraries are principally of a moral and re-
ligious description; but they contain also several miscellaneous
works of history and biography; and in each library there is a set
of the Kildare Street publications. The inhabitants of the parish
have the use of these libraries gratis, whicli have been formed and
upheld by donations of books, and occasional collections in the pa-
rish church.
  Charitable and other Institutions.--A considerable number of
the inhabitants of the parish are members of friendly societies in
the town of Montrose; but in the year 1819, a friendly society
was instituted for the benefit of the fishermen of the parish, in-
cluding also those who reside on the Montrose bank of the river,
most of whom have originally belonged to the parish of Craig.
This society has been attended with many good effects, and is in
a very flourishing state. It consists of 160 members, and has a
fund of about L. 500.
   A saving-bank was established in the parish in the year 1815,
but, from various causes, has not received so much support as might
have been expected. The investments have been principally made
by unmarried domestic servants, fishermen, and coast-guard men,
The sum invested yearly has been about L. 65, 3s. 6d., and the
amount drawn about L. 49, 16s. 10d.; but a branch of the bank
has been opened recently at the fishing village of Ferryden, which
promises to prove very successful,--the sum of L. 43 having been
invested, chiefly by young men, in the course of a few months.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving regular parochial aid is 26, and the average sum allotted
to each is 1s. 1d. per week. There are occasional donations, how-
ever, made to persons in temporary distress, who are not upon the
weekly pension-list; and two general distributions annually, from
L. 8 to L. 10 each, are made among all the poor,--from 65 to
70 in number, chiefly widows and aged persons. " It may here

<FOOTNOTE>This originated in a donation of books from Andrew Balfour, Esq. Edinburgh.
A small library in Ferryden also took its rise from a similar donation by James Dou-
glas, Esq. of Cavers, who, in the year 1827, expended L. 100 in donations of books
to parish libraries and reading societies in Forfarshire. These donations not only
laid the foundation of many parish libraries in this quarter, but became the means of
inducing the ministers and inhabitants of other parishes to form similar institutions
for themselves.


