
       712                       PERTHSHIRE.

       at which prizes are bestowed by Sir Neil Menzies on the success-
       ful competitors.  A society, called the Atholl Club, for encou-
       raging improvements, both in husbandry and in' the breeds of
       cattle, have their meetings every third year in this village, for in-
       specting stock and adjuging their premiums.
         Leases.--The general duration of leases is fifteen years, but
       there are several places where none appear to be given.
                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         The nearest market-town is Dunkeld, at the distance of eighteen
       nails but the chief business of this district is done in Perth.  The
       village of Weem is small in respect of population, but other cir-
       ctimstances render it of considerable importance.  It is a polling-
       place for elections; the Atholl Club hold their triennial meeting
       in it; the COmmissioners of Supply have their statutory road meet-
       ings and others; the justices of the peace have monthly meetings
       for small debt cases, and occasional meetings for Excise purposes.
       These last are now a mere matter of form compared to the time
       when crowds of offenders against the Excise laws were called to-
       gether, to await with anxiety and dread the awarding of the pe-
       nalties to which their offences subjected them.  It is also the seat
       of a Presbytery, erected by an act of the General Assembly, May
       24th 1836,  "into a separate Presbytery, to be called the Presby-
       terv of Weem," and appointed to meet in October following.  It
       consists of ten parishes, six original, three Government, and one
       chapel-of-ease, which were all disjoined from the Presbytery of
       Dunkeld.
         Means of Communication.--There is a post-office in the village
       of Aberfeldy, about a mile distant, and a penny-post from it passes
       through this village six days of the week.  There are turnpike
       roads through the Weem, Murthly, Crannich, Newhall, and
       Sticks divisions; and there are good roads irr most of the other
       parts.  The post drives a four-wheeled carriage for the convey-
       ance of passengers.  There were two public coaches running
       through this parish during the last summer, from Dunkeld to
         Tarbet on Lochlomond side; and there is a weekly carrier to the
       village, and others passing through it.
         The Bridge of Tay is a very fine building, of five large arches
       over the river of that name, between the village of Weem and that
       of Aberfeldy,, and opening up the communication of all this north-
       ern district with the south.  It was finished in Year 1733 un-
       der the direction of General Wade Commander of the Forces in
       Scotland.


