
                            FETTERESSO.                        255

pied in raising beans. The principal grain crops are oats and bar-
ley. Of the former every species known in the country is sown,
and change of seed frequently procured from other districts. The
prices of grain being now principally regulated by weight; in seve-
ral districts, where the soil is of an inferior quality, the cultivation
of barley and Chester bear is discontinued, and oats, as more re-
munerating, substituted in their room.
	Many courses of rotation of cropping are in use. Among them,
lst, turnips, barley, grass, oats; 2d, turnips, barley or oats, hay,
pasture, oats; 3d, turnips, barley or oats, hay, pasture, pasture,
oats, oats. The second, five course shift, is the most prevalent.
    A considerable quantity of land is anually, in small lots, let to
tradesmen and others residing in Stonehaven, by farmers in the
neighbourhood of it, for raising potatoes. Much of this crop is
sold by the tenants in the northern district at Aberdeen ; and large
quantities from every part of the parish are shipped for London,
&c. Much, too, is used, both raw and steamed, as food for horses
and cattle, and it forms the principal article in feeding many pigs.
It is feared, it may be added, that it forms the principal article in
the sustenance of the families, not only of the decidedly poor, but
also of many tradesmen and labourers.
    Mr Robertson, in his Agricultural Report of the County of
Kincardine, (1808), states the number of black-cattle in this pa-
rish, 3050; horses then paying tax, 315; sheep, 3100; swine,
22. The number is now greatly increased, except in regard to
hill pastured sheep, the number of which is diminished. Many
horses are reared, but few possess particularly valuable properties.
Some of the heritors and principal tenants have paid attention to
the breeds of cattle. The late Mr Duff of Fetteresso preferred
the West Highland, which he brought to a great size and weight;
the late Mr Silver of Netherley had always an extensive stock of
a superior class; and Mr Barclay of Ury is very eminent as a
breeder of Teeswater or short-horned cattle, to be afterwards no-
ticed. The cattle possessed by the tenantry in general are little
to be commended. By far too many are reared. It would be of
much advantage that the number were reduced at least a third;
this would be better proportioned to the food that can be suppli-
ed, and prove more profitable to the possessor. Cattle are fatten-
ed for consumpt in the country, and the London market, which, for
some year past, has been opened to this district by steamers and
other vessels from Aberdeen; but by far the greater part of the tur-



