
                            BANFF.                           17

   charter obtained for that special purpose) let out, in perpetoity at
   a small annual feu-duty, which, however, appears to have been the
   actual rent at the time.
   	Land-owners.-The principal landholders at present are, the
    Earl of Fife, Earl of Seafield, and Sir Robert Abercromby of Birk-
    enbog, grandson, by the mother's side, of the last Lord Banff.
    	To a comparatively late period, the town seems to have been a
    very insignificant place, little more than a fishing village, an ap-
    pendage to the monastery and castle. The streets were not paved
    before 1551; and, at the beginning of the succeeding century, few
    houses besides Lord Airlie's, Lord Banff's, and the Laird of Auch-
    medden's houses, were slated. The harbour was formerly within
    the river.\f*
       Historical Events.-The town has never been connected with any
    historical event of importance, but some visitations to which it was
    subjected in the troublous times of old, have no doubt been reckoned
    of sufficient importance by the inhabitants. Spalding relates that, in
    March or April 1644, "There went down to Banff the lairds of
    Gight Newtown, and Ardlogie, with a party of forty horse and mus-
    keteers, brave gentlemen. They took in the town, without contradic-
    tion, meddled with the keys of the tolbooth, took free quarters, and
    plundered all the arms they could get, buff-coats, pikes, swords,
    earabines, pistols, yea, and money also. They took frae Alexan-

    <FOOTNOTE>The following effort of "the vision and the faculty divine." is the production of
    no less famous a person than Dr Arthur Johnstoun, being one of his "Epigrams upon
    severall of the Royall burgh in the kingdom; as may be found in his poems printed
    at Middle-Burgh, 1642. Translated into English by I.B." (else where more fully
    designed, "Mr John Barclay, person of Cruden.")
                     Bamff near the Ocean doth thy self confess
                     In Bulk then Trica, or Hypepe less:
                     Yet art acknowledge'd by the neigbouring lands
                     To be their Regent and the Boyne Commands:
                     Nor cornes nor pastures wanting are to thee,
                     Nor stately ships which do lanch forth to see.
                     Thou art adorned by a temple-great.
                     And by the Muses and Airea's Seat.
                     A place is near which was a feld untill
                     Our ancestors did raise it an hill,
                     Hither the sea flows up to Diveron's food,
                     A stately castle also on it stood,
                     A warlick fort, its rabbish yet appears,
                     The rest's consum'd by time, which all things wears.
                     The buildings which joys to the mercat-place,
                     The Parian pillars which uphold them grace:
                     Stirring for defense and specious to the right,
                     In them doth dwell a noble ancient knight:
                       A vertmous people doth inhabite thee,
                       And this, O Banff I thy greatest praise must be.

      BANFF.                           B


