
		   KIRKPATRICK-IRONGRAY.                  269


Edward Gordon and Alexander M'Cubbin, lie buried on a small
rising ground, within a clump of trees, close to the Cluden, and
in view of the kirk.  They were seized in Lochinket moor, by
Bruce and the Laird of Lagg, and executed on the spot where
they were buried, to strike terror, perhaps, into the hearts of some
families in the neighbourhood, either known or suspected to be
attached to the Presbyterian cause.
	In later times this parish gave birth to an individual in humble
life, whose name would probably ere now have been forgotten,
had not her singular and affecting story attracted the attention of
the Author of Waverldy, and given rise to one of the most en-
chanting and instructive of his tales--"The Heart of Mid-
lothian." The individual to whom we allude is Helen Walker, the
prototype of "Jeanie Deans." How he came to hear of her story,
--the simple materials on which this splendid creation of his ge-
nius was reared,--and what led to the erection of a stone to her
memory, are all given in the preface to the tale. *
	Land-owners.--James Oswald of Newark, M. P. for Glasgow,
is patron of the parish. His estate lies along the right bank
of the Cluden, and embraces part of the middle and almost the
whole of the lower district of the parish. There is no mansion-
house on the property. Mr Oswald's usual residence is Auchen-
cruive, a magnificent seat in the parish of St Quivox, and neigh-

<FOOTNOTE>To bring her character before the view of the reader, we cannot do better than
transcribe the simple and touching inscription written by himself.
				This Stone was erected
			      By the Author of Waverley,
					In
				Memory of Helen Walker,
			   Who died in the year of God 1791.
				This Humble Individual
				Practised in Real Life
		   		    the Virtues
			   With which Fiction has invented
			      The Imaginary character of
				    Jeanie Deans.
		           Refusing the slightest, departure
				    from Veracity,
			   Even to save the life of a sister,
			       She nevertheless showed her
				 Kindness and fortitude,
					  In
			Rescuing her from the severity of the law,
			    At the expense of personal exertions,
			    Which the time rendered as difficult,
				As the motive was laudable.

				Respect the grave of poverty,
			      When combined wiht love of truth
				     And dear affection.


