
102                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

communicants on an average of the winter and summer commu-
nions, is 420.
   Divine service is not upon the whole so uniformly well attended as
might, be expected from the number of persons in communion with
the church, and professing adherence to it. The state of the weatber
makes a much greater alteration in the attendance, than could be
anticipated among a hardy agricultural peasantry, whose occu-
pation habituates them to all manner of exposure. The practice
of half-day attendance, which prevails among some of the better
classes, has undoubtedly a most detrimental effect upon those who
more immediately come under the influence of their example.
   Since the institution of the General Assembly's four schemes,
the religious contributions of the people have been chiefly directed
into these channels. There is a collection made once in the year,
for each of these, and the average amount of the whole may be
about L. 14. The regular weekly collections for the poor have,
on an average of three years, amounted annually to L. 44, 12s.
These, however, it is to be remarked, are daily on the decrease.
   Education.-There are, at present, 3 schools connected with
the parish, all of which are in the village of Ratho. The chief of
these is the parish school, which has for years been most efficient-
ly taught by Mr James Gourlay. There attend it, upon an ave-
rage through the year, about 85 scholars. The instruction im-
parted comprehends the common branches of reading, writing, and
arithmetic, English grammar, and geography, with the higher
branches of book-keeping, French, Latin, and Greek, and mathe-
matics, when required. The fees, as fixed by the heritors and
kirk-session, are as follows: 2s. 6d. per quarter for English reading;
writing, 3s. 6d.; arithmetic, 4s. 6d.; Latin, 7s. 6d.;  Greek, 9s. 6d.;
French, 10s. 6d. The higher charge always comprehends the
lower branches of instruction. For English grammar and geogra-
phy no additional charge is made. The schoolmaster has the
legal accommodation of house and garden; his salary is L. 34, 4s.
4 1/2d.; the school-fees should amount to L. 40. Besides this, he
may receive L. 9, 10s. a-year from his office as session-clerk, and
the fees connected with it.
   The other two school are taught by females, and are chiefly
to be considered as sewing-schools; the reading and writing taught
in then, being chiefly intended to keep up the remembrance of
what has already been acquired in the parish school. One of these
is supported partly by yearly subscriptions, which vary in amount,
4


