
               SADDELL AND SKIPNESS.                           447

was so increased by St Bernard, that they governed the greatest
part of Europe for a whole age, both in things spiritual and tem-
poral; and one may easily judge of their influence in this country
when, at one period, they bad no less than fourteen convetits'in
Scotland.
   Endowments--The monastery of Saddell was richly endowed by
Reginald and his successors. He granted to it the lands of Glen
Saddell, the twelve merk lands of Ballibean, in the lordship of Kin-
tyre-the lands of Cheskin, in Arran, and unum denarium ex qua-
libet domo. Donald, his son, confirmed the whole of his father's
grants, and added some of his owti, as did also Angus. Pennant
in his travels informs us that the lands of Kilmorle, Tortin, and
Benans in Arran were annexed to it, and also Inchmarnock, in the
county of Bute. Sir Duncan Campbell of Lochow, founder of the
collegiate church or provostry o , f Kilmun, who'was created Lord
Campbell in 1445, was a areat benefactor to it. He mortified for
its use the lands of Blar'tntiobairt, in the shire of Argyle, 11 pro
salute animae suae."
   Churchyard,--Here are some of the most interesting tombstones
in the kingdom, with an endless variety of figures and inscriptions.
One of the most conspicuous is that of the Lord of the Isles him-
self in the character of a warrior, sculptured upon the stone as
largeaslife, withthellelaidheamh da laimh" (thetwo handed-sworcl)
lying sbeatbed by his side. Others of the same kind have a monk
in miniattire beside them, to recommend them, it is thought, to the
keeper of the keys. The Abbot's tombstone, which lies somewhere
among the riiins, has been described as a remarkably fine one.
He is (Irawn at full length,--his bead shaven, and his pontifical
robs reaching to his heels. His bands are closely clasped, raised
very high, and resting on his breast, as if in the attitude of prayer.
On the lower part of his breast is the seal of the monastery, re-
sembling not a little the arms of Canterbury ; the sand-glass and
the trumpet to represent the lapse of time and the approach of
judcrinenf. On the lower part is a label filled with Saxon or
Runic characters, but so effaced, as to be almost illegible.
   Here several persons of distinction from all parts of the country,
including some of the collateral branches of the Macdonald fa-
mily, had their sepultures. A grave-stone, close by that of the
chieftain himself, contains the figure of a warrior, said to, repre-


<FOOTNOTE>Chartulary of Paisley, page 377--Douglas' Peerage.

