
208                               LANARKSHIRE.

description of the public buildings in Glasgow would be superflu-
ous. We shall therefore confine ourselves merely to mentioning a
few of the most prominent of those appropriated for ecclesiastical
purposes, and a few for the civil concerns of the city. For eccle-
siastical, the first in order is the Cathedral, which is allowed to
be the most splendid edifice of old English architecture that is to
be found in Scotland. Its length from east to west is 319 feet,
width 63 feet, height of the nave 90 feet, and of the choir 85 feet.
In this edifice there are 2 steeples, 147 pillars, and 159 windows
of various dimensions, many of them of exquisite workmanship. *

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Rickman, the celebrated architect, who gave the design for St David's Church
in this city, in his work on Gothic Architecture, 3d edit., p.336, says, "That the
crypt of the cathedral of Glasgow is not equalled by any in the kingdom. The piers
and groins are all of the most intricate character, the most beautiful design, and ex-
cellentt execution. The flowered capitals of the piers are much like those of York."
The choir of the cathedral was renovated several years ago by the corporation, in a
manner which does it great honour, so much so, that it is not too much to say, that
the Cathedral Church of Glasgow is unrivalled in Scotland. But to the regret of
every man of taste, the magnificent nave has been allowed to get into a state of great
dilapidation. The arches, and the tabernacle work, and the images at the rood-loft at
the east end are in decay, and the mullions and flowing tracery of the windows in the
north and south facades, are in a similar condition. The west end is bounded by a
bare wall, erected 170 years ago, and quite incompatible with the grandeur and ar.
chitectural effect of the other parts. Such is the condition of the nave of the Glas-
gow cathedral. Instead of its being a great ornament to the city it is calculated to im-
press strangers with the lowest estimate of the taste and public spirit of the citizens of
Glasgow.
	Impressed with the importance of the measure, Dr Cleland frequently suggested
to the public the renovation of the nave, and at length, on the 22d October 1829, he
drew up, printed, and widely circulated, an appeal to his fellow-citizens, and com-
menced a subscription for this important and necessary work, but owing to an unex-
pected difficulty, raised on the part of the crown, to whom the edifice belongs, the pro-
jected improvements were postponed. The public mind thus directed, never lost
sight of the scheme. In 1832, Mr Archibald M'Lellan, then a member of the town-
council, and president of the Dilletanti Society, suggested, in his valuable work on
Cathedrals, that the Outer High Church, then deeply affected by dry rot, should
be abandoned as a place of worship, and restored to the nave. While this magni-
ficent, scheme would have had no chance of success in 1829, as matters then were,
there is now every prospect of its being carried into effect, from the circumstance of
that church having, in 1832, been formally declared by two eminent physicians,+
unfit for a place of worship. The corporation, as proprietors of the seats, having
thus no alternative, have commenced the building of a church in High John
Street, in lieu of the Outer High Church. The nave, including the space now occu-
pied by that church, will then be a receptacle for monuments to departed worth, and
the grand entrance to the Cathedral Church. Even in its present dilapidated state,
there are monuments in the nave, which would be considered elegant in Westminster
Abbey, and worthy of a place in St Paul's CathedraL
	There is now every reason to believe that Government will contribute liberally to
the renovation of the Cathedral out of the burgh and barony teinds, Dr Cleland hav-
ing lately had an oppurtunity of pointing out the defects to the Right Honourable
Sir John Cam Hobhouse, at that time Chief Commissioner of the Woods and Forest,
which Board has been lately entrusted with the management of the Crown eccle-
siastical edifices.
	Some time priox to 1817, his Majesty's Government resolved that in future they would
not give a tack of Crown teinds without a fine of three years free teind. On 5th July
1823, William Smith, Esq. of Carbeth-Guthrie, then Lord Provost, and Dr Cleland at-

				Dr Burns and Dr Balmanno.


