
                KIRKMICHAEL.				505

described as " Ecclesia Sancti Michaelis de Gemilston. The
church was granted to the prior and canons of Whithorn by John de
Gemilston, and confirmed to them by Robert I. in May 1325. In
James V., the vicarage of Kirkmichael, in the deanery of Carrick,
was L. 3, 6s. 8d. being a tenth of its estimated value. In 1562,
the half of the vicarage was enjoyed by Sir Thomas Montgomery,
the vicar of the church, who received from it L. 15 yearly, and L. 5
more as the rent of the glebe-lands and manse. How the other
half of the vicarage was disposed of, appeareth not. But the tithes
and revenue of Kirkmichael, which belonged to the priory of
Whithorn, were leased to Jonet Mure, for the payment of L. 100
a-year. The church of Kirkmichael, with the other property of
the priory, were vested in the King by the general annexation act
of 1587. The whole was granted by the King in 1606 to the
bishops of Galloway. In 1641, it was transferred to the Univer-
sity of Glasgow, but it was restored to the same bishop in 1661;
and it was held by the bishops of that see till the final abolition
of Episcopacy in 1689, when the patronage was vested in the King,
to whom it now belongs."
   The church, with its romantic burying-ground, is beautifully si-
tuated on the Dyrock burn, and surrounded by a row of old and
majestic ash-trees. The position is well chosen, for the conve-
nience of the people generally. The family farthest from church
on the southern extremity, is seven miles and a-half distant, and
the one on the northern extremity is five miles distant. The
church was built in 1787, contains accommodation for 556 persons,
is a substantial house, and in good repair.
   A new manse has just been built. It is after the style of the
old English manor-house, and is in exact keeping with the charac-
ter of the place. It is a happy change from the common manse
form, and is equally creditable to the liberal spirit, and the ex-
cellent taste of the heritors. The contract price without offices
was L. 968, 8s., which, considering the nature of the building, is
thought exceedingly moderate.
   The glebe contains 16 acres, and, after a little improvement by
draining, may run from L. 2 to L. 3 per acre. The stipend was
last year augmented to 17 chalders, half-meal, half-barley, with
L. 10 for communion elements.
   Ministers of Kirkmichael.--The following are the ministers of
this parish since the Reformation,-- Mr Roger Melville; Mr Wil-
liam Peebles, ordained 1638; (Mr William Cockburn; Mr Wil-


