
408                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	The common length of, leases on sheep farms containing a
portion of arable land, which is the description of farms in this
parish, is nine years: but this is too short; for there is not suffi-
cient time for making any great improvement, and these, if made,
are, scarcely finished, and the farmer has hardly begun to en-
joy the fruits of them, when, by their being brought again in-
to the market, they become a temptation to a new bidder. On
the Duke's farms, this is indeed corrected; for there, there is no
exposure to public roup, nor private offers made. A certain per
centage, in proportion to the sales of the former lease, is either
added to or taken from it, as the rent of the lease ensuing: this is
offered for the acceptance of the tenant, and if he has a son to
succeed him, behaves well, and can pay his rent, he is never re-
moved. In this way, let the leases be of what length they may,im-
provements are constantly carrying on: farms become a kind of
liferent property to the possessors, who improve them for their
children's children, and yet it is understood that the Duke's farms
are not, on the whole, cheaper than others. But the security of
the system is all the charm. In the building of houses, the Duke
gives wood, slate, and lime; but the carriage of these from the
places where they are usually sold, and all the other expenses of
building and finishing, are the work of the tenant. On farms
differently constituted, every permanent improvement ought to be
made by the landlord. In general, the farm buildings on the
Duke's estates in Eskdale are commodious and in good repair;
and I add with pleasure, that the paternal interest which the fami-
ly of Buccleuch has ever taken in the welfare of its tenantry, is
gratefully felt by the latter, and has a powerful effect on their ge-
neral character. Few are more honourable in their dealings or
better informed.
	Draining.--The most general improvement on sheep farms here
is surface draining. The drains are generally made from 16 inches
to 2 feet wide, and 1 foot deep at an average. The expense of mak-
ing them is from 6s. to 7s.'6d. per 100 roods of 18 feet each; and
when the soil, after some years, has become compressed, and the
sides of the drains have begun to meet, they are commonly widened
and cleaned out for from 4s. to 5s. per 100 roods. A considerable
degree of skill is requisite in laying them on. If the run too slow,
they cannot clear themselves of flying bent and other impurities;
and if too rapid, they run into gullies. The best rate of motion
is a medium between these two. Experience has taught that they
				4


