
     Statistical Account

nature.  it is 44 feet above the bed of a rivulet, is covered
with 30 feet of rock and earth, and crowned with wood.  The
entrance is adorned with a vast prominent rock 27 feet broad,
and 30 long, sloping a little upward.  The inward structure

<FOOTNOTE>

mounts, which are not uncommon, may be guessed at by antiquaries.  They
are generally supposed to be places where the ancient barons held their courts of
law, gave orders to, and harangued their retainers, and where they frequently
covered the remains of a departed Christian.  There is to be found the remains
of a ruin, called a Chapel, supposed to be a Romish one.  Lately a cairn of
stones was removed from the top of a hill, called Lawhill, and there was found
a stone coffin containing human bones.  About 16 years ago, on removing a
large heap of earth and stones, there was found a stone coffin, with 3 or 4 urns,
containing burnt bones.  The urns are said to have had letters or figures on
them, but were broken by the workmen in hopes of treasure.  Camphill, near
the borders of the parish of Largs, is said to be the place, where the Scots army
under Alexander III. encamped, previous to the battle of Largs 1263.  Between
that and Largs is Routdon-burn, supposed to derive its name from a detachment
of King Haco of Denmark's army, being there attacked and put to the rout,
and that don, is a contraction of Dane.  What renders this more probable, on
the banks of the Routdon burn, is a large cairn, upon removing part of which,
lately was discovered a stone coffin.  The knights Templars had lands in this
parish, and are called Temple lands at this day.-Anciently, there were 2
churches in the parish; the one on the east, the other on the west of the village,
and little more than a quarter of a mile distant from the present church.  With-
in these last 40 years past, the remains of the east church have been seen by
some now living.  The west church, though no remains of the building can be
traced, yet from a piece of ground being there, still called the old glebe, it is
probable the church may have stood near to it.  This old glebe, was exchanged
about 80 years ago, for the present one.  At what period the 2 churches were
united, and the church first built where the present one now stands, is uncer-
tain, but thought have been between the years 1600 and 1608.  No aug-
mentation of stipend of Dalry since 1650; when, at the instance of Mr. Ro-
bert Bell, then minister, pursuer, the stipend was then fixed at what it now is.
The decree bears to have proceeded on an agreement between Blair of Blair,
tacksman of the teinds of the parish, by tack granted to him by John, Arch-
bishop of St. Andrew's, Commendator of Kilwinning, dated the last day of May
1616, and 2 commissions from the presbytery of Irvine, in name and behalf of
Mr. Belt the pursuer.-The mosses in the low part of the parish, do evidently


