
                    RATHVEN.                               265

in the village of Easter Buckie. It was built in the year 1835,
chiefly by subscription, and cost the sum of L.800. It is free of
debt. The clergyman was ordained to this charge in the month
of July 1837, and has a bond for L.80 per annum as stipend.
This chapel contains 800 hearers. There are no free sittings,
provided they possibly can be let.  The highest charge is 3s. 6d.
and the lowest 1s. No part of the weekly collections has
hitherto gone to the support of the poor.  The beritors and
kirk-session are now, however, entitled to the half of these col-
lections, according to the decision given by the Court of Ses-
sion in the cause of the beritors against the managers of the Cha-
pel of Ease in Brechin.  The population assigned is upwards of
2000, which comprehends the whole of the village of Buckie, and
a small portion of the landward part lying towards the south.
Number of communicants, 400; unlet seats, 300.
   The third chapel in connection with the Established Church is
situated at the village of Portnockie. It was finished and opened
for public worship some time ago. It contains 450 sitters. The
whole.seats are already let, and the members of Presbytery have
agreed to preach in rotation weekly till such time as a clergyman
be ordained. It is called Seafield Church, and, when formed into
a parish, will comprehend the part of this parish attached quoad
sacra to Cullen, and a few families residing in the immediate neigh-
bourbood of Portnockie. It was built by subscription, and cost
L.400, of which the Honourable Colonel Grant, now sixth Earl
of Seafield, contributed L.100.
   There are two Episcopal chapels,--one at Arradoul, and an-
other in Buckie. The one at Arradoul was built about fifty-four
years ago, and contains 211 sittings, of which 139 are let at 3s. 6d,
each. The other, in Buckie, was purchased about a year ago
from the Methodists, and contains 200 sittings.
   There are two Roman Catholic chapels in this parish, one of
which ir situated at Presholm, and the other at Buckie. The one
at Presholm was built in 1788, and contains 800 sitters ; the other,
which was lately fitted up, holds 400. The attendance at each
chapel averages 400. The amount of Catholic population is
1500. The bishop resides at Presholm, and has three priests who
officiate and live with him there, whose incomes depend solely
upon what the bishop may give them.  The collections at both
chapels are given to the poor of their own persuasion.


