
	      634                     PERTHSHIRE.

              time to time, by the kirk-session, has accumulated to a considerable
              sum, the interest of which is employed for the support of the poor.
                 The manse was built in 0804, and repaired in 1829.  The
              glebe consists of between 22 and 23 acres Scots, exclusive of gar-
              den, orchard, shrubberies, &c. which may contain two acres more.
              The soil is generally of excellent quality.  Having lately been
              subjected to thorough draining, its productive powers have been
              much increased, especially in reference to green crops.  Accord-
              ing to the mode in which land is let in the parish, the glebe would
              draw an annual rent of three bolls of grain per acre, (i. e. 4
              bushels of wheat, 6 of oats, and 6 of barley,) which, according to
              the average of the fiars prices of the county for the last, five years,
              would amount to between L. 70 and L. 80.  The present stipend is
              14 chalders, half meal, half barley, the average amount of which for
              the last five years, inclusive of an allowance of L. 8, 6s. 8d. for
              communion elements, is L. 208 10s. 5d.  The last augmentation
              took place in 1818.  The number of families in thd parish who
              attend the Established Church is 62, and the number of persons
              of all ages belonging to it is 335.  The number of families not in
              the parish, but who regularly attend the church of St Madoes,
              is 34, these affording upwards of 100 church-goers.  There are
              4 families in the parish belonging to the Dissenters, containing 15
              persons of all ages.  Divine service at the Established Cburch is
              attended by all classes with the greatest regularity.  The sa-
              crament of the Lord's Supper is dispensed twice a year, (in Fe-
              bruary and in August) ; at the former time the average number of
              communicants is 225, at the latter 245; of these from 70 to 80,
              come from the neighbouring parishes.
                There is a society for religious purposes in the parish.  Its
              members all belong to the Established Church, and its funds are
              mainly appropriated to the advancement of the Church of Scot-
              land's four great schemes.  The average amount of these for the
              last ten years is L. 25 annually, this partly obtained by private sub-
              scriptions, and partly by public collections.
                Education.-There is no week-day school in tbe parish but the
              parochial, in which English reading and grammar, writing, arith-
              metic, book-keeping, practical mathematics, and geography, with
              Latin and Greek, if required, are taught.  The schoolmaster has
              the legal accommodation and the maximum salary.  The school
              fees are small and ill paid, the whole sum realized from them not
              exceeding L. 10 Sterling annually, although the average num-


