
                          PARISH OF CARRINGTON.*

           PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                     THE REV. JOHN LOCHTIE, MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The original name of this parish seems to have been
Karington or Kerington. As far back as the year 1704, it seems
to have received the name of Primrose, most probably from the
family of that name having acquired at very large proportion of
the landed property which it contains. The name in the title as
above seems to have been fixed for a long time, and is now the
only designation admitted into records and other public documents,
There is a record dated November 6, 1653, entitled, Register of
the kirk discipline of Karingtoun.
   Extent, &c.-At the extreme points, its length from east to west
is about 3 1/2 and its breadth, from south to north, 2 miles.
   Boundaries.-On the north-east it is bounded by Cockpen;
north and west, by Lasswade; west by Penicuick; on the south
and east, by Temple and Borthwick, separated by the South Esk
winding along the romantic and finely wooded grounds of Rosebery
and Arniston.
   Climate, Soil, Cultivation, and Produce.-About the village of
Carrington, the soil is good and dry. But towards the west part
of the parish, the land has not, till within the last twenty years,
undergone much improvement. It has all now been under the
plough, except about 100 acres of moss. Ere long, this will
also disappear by draining. It produces all kinds of grain.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-These are, the Earl of Rosebery and Robert Bal-
four Wardlaw Ramsay, Esq. Robert Dundas, Esq. of Arniston, in
the neighbouring parish of Temple, possesses part of the lands in
this parish along the banks of the South Esk, including Carring-
ton mill and lands.
   Mansion-Houses.-The only mansion-house is that of Mr Ram-
say, which is situated towards the north boundary of the parish, in

<FOOTNOTE>From a Correspondent.


