
		               DAILLY.                       387

visit of the Highland Society to Ayrshire in 1835, and the esta-
blishment of numerous agricultural associations upon similar prin-
ciples throughout the country. Generally speaking, the husbandry
pursued is good. Wheat is much cultivated after a potatoe crops
Grass sown down with wheat is usually found to produce a light
crop of hay, and in some instances has failed altogether. On large
farms, turnips are in a great measure taking the place of potatoes.
They seem to answer the soil and climate, and are an excellent
preparation for barley, which, when sown down with grass seeds, is
followed by a large crop of hay, with corresponding good pasture.
Bone manure has been introduced of late for turnips, and is highly
approved of.
	Since 1805, the state of husbandry has been greatly improved;
and a considerable portion of waste or moor land has been brought
under cultivation, by enclosing and liming on the surface. Drain-
ing has been carried to a great extent by both proprietors and
tenants. The improvement by this means on the estate of Bargany
is very remarkable. A large tract of hill pasture, which the pro-
prietor held for some time in his own hand, was most advantageous-
ly subjected to the process first of surface-draining, and then of lim-
ing. The lower grounds on the same property have all been power-
fully drained, and in many places trenched, and being new laid down
in grass with every possible attention, afford the richest and most beau-
tiful pasture. Tile-draining, or furrow-draining, is considered as a
most important improvement. Irrigation was introduced a few years
ago at Dalquharran, by Mr Kennedy of Dunure, and it was found
to answer so well, that he has greatly enlarged his meadow. The
same system has also been begun by Sir James Fergusson at Kil-
kerran, and he has been followed in it by one of his principal ten-
ants. Embanking on a pretty large scale has been practised by Sir
James Fergusson, and particularly by Mr Kennedy of Dunure. To
abridge the very winding course of the Girvan, and to prevent the
inundations to which the low grounds on each side were frequent-
ly subject, he caused a new channel to be cut for the river for the
space of 210 yards; and raised on both sides a double embank-
ment, the upper one being so far behind the lower, as to give
ample room for the largest quantity of water which the Girvan,
when most swollen, can be supposed to contain. Another very in-
genious operation was carried on at the same time. Beford the
river was admitted into its new channel, pipes were laid under its
bed, by which the ground on one side might be drained. That


