
340              ARGYSLESHIRE.

of Ulva, Gometra, Little Colonsa, and Staffa, which belong to 
the united parish. Beyond these, to the westward,and likewise
appertaining to the parish, are the Treshipish Isles, consisting of
Fladda, Linga, Bach or the Dutchman's Cap, and the two Cairn-
burghs. Exclusive of these various islands, the united parish may 
be about 150 to 160 square miles, and is surrounded on all sides
by the sea, excepting at the isthmus alredy mentioned, which,
together with Loch-nan-gaul, divides it from the parishes of To-
rosay and Kilfinichen on the south. To the south of Staffa is
Iona or Icolmokill; and to the west of the Treshinish Isles, are the
islands of Tiree and Coll. At a greater distance to the north are
seen the isles of Canna, Rum, Eigg, and Muck;and, nearer is 
to be seen the point or headland of Ardnamurchan, the westmont
extremity of the mainland of Scotland. To the east, the Sound 
of Mull divides the united parish from that of Morven. The pa-
rish lies about 171 miles W. N. W. of Edinburgh, 62 N. W.of
Inverary, and 30 N. W. of Oban.
   Topographical Appearances.-The general appearance of the 
land is hilly, and  the hills are, for the most	part, covered with
heath. The arable land lies generally near the shore. The more 
inland parts are good pasture intermixed with moss and heath.
The state of griculture would bemuch farther advanced, were
the roads in better order. There is great want of proper roads
in this parish.
   Meteorology.-The climatemay be characterized as very healthy.
Many persons live to the patriarchal age between eighty and nine-
ty, and a few have exceeded ninety years. There is at present in the
island of Ulva a woman who has attained to 100, with her faculties
entire. An impreesion has prevailed, that rain falls here to a greater
extent then in the low country;ther is reason to doubt the accu-
racy of this, especially in the Ulva parish, judging from a regis-
ter of the weather kept by Mr Clark at Ulva House for the last
seven years. The prevailing gales are from the west and south-
west. The winters are much more temperate and mild than in
the inland parts of Scotland, the grounds being seldom covered 
with snow, and the frosts never of long continuance.
   Geology, Soil, &c.-Although the appearnce of the land is
hilly, yet there are no mountains of remarkable height. The basalt
and wacken strata, traveresed with basaltic veins, seem to pervade
the whole. The wacke affords many beautiful specimens of zeo-
lite, and also the rarer fossil prehnite. The zeolite is frequently






  

