
   172 				ELGINSHIRE.

   tities of grain are ground annually.  The Messrs Urquhart have
   a powerful saw-mill, where timber is sawn into deals, spars, &c.
   Of late, they have prepared a quantity of wood-pavement, cut into
   small hexagonal blocks, for the streets of London.  There is a
   brewery, and also a distillery in the close neighbourhood of the
   town.
      Produce.-- The value of the average annual produce of tbe parish,
   so far as can be ascertained, may be stated as follows:

   <TABLE>
        Grain and straw,  .             L. 10,000
		   	Potatoes, turnips, &c.	     .      3,500
        Grass,     .     .     .            4,000
   			Salmon-fishing,	      .	     .        500
        Wood,    .     .     .                200
        Gardens,     .       .      .         100
             Total,                     L. 18,300

      Wages.-- The rates of wages for agricultural servants are, for
   males, from L. 9 to L. 12 per annum, besides food, for which an
   allowance is often given of six bolls of meal, besides a quantity of
   potatoes.  Females receive from L. 4 to L. 5 and their victuals.
   The wages of day-labourers vary from 1s. 6d. to 2s. per day; car-
   penters receive from 2s. to 2s. 6d.; and masons, 2s. 6d. and 3s.
      An agricultural society was instituted about ten years ago,
   which holds several meetings annually in the town, and of which
   most of the farmers in this as well as the adjoining parishes are
   members.  Cattle-shows take place every summer, in the month
   of July, under their auspices, at which premiums are awarded to
   the exhibitors of the best animals of each class of stock,--and the
   good effects resulting from the establishment of the society have
   already become apparent in the increased anxiety and enterprise
   of the farmers to procure improved breeds of stock of all kinds.
      Horticultural Society.-- No branch of rural economy has re-
   ceived more encouragement in the parish of late years, than gar-
   dening.  A horticultural society was established a few years ago,
   under the patronage of the Earl of Moray and several of the
   neighbouring gentlemen, with the view of exciting more general
   attention to the cultivation of garden produce.  Two exhibitions
   of fruits, flowers, and vegetables take place annually under the
   auspices of the Society, in June and September, at which prizes
   are awarded forthe best specimens.  The institution has hitherto
   been very successfully managed ; the flower-shows have been
   pleasingly and tastefully conducted, and have been generally at-
   tended by a numerous and gay assemblage of company from all
   parts of the county.


