
                       GOLSPIE.                                41

ence; and it will remain a lasting monument of his ability and
exertions.
     Little Ferry.-The Little Ferry inlet, or the estuary, as it may
be regarded, of the Fleet, forms a harbour at the distance of about
a mile from the bar formed at its mouth. The depth of the water
over this bar, during spring tides, is, at full tide, about 18 feet, and
at ebb tide 4 1\2 feet; and, during neap tides, is, at full tide, about
16, and, at ebb tide, 6 feet. When the Fleet is flooded, the depth
is, in a small degree, increased. The harbour is about 259 Yards
broad, has about 18 feet water at ebb tide, and affords perfect safe-
ty, in any weather. Above this narrow part, the sea, at full tide,
expands over a space of about 1500 imperial acres. The harbour
of the Little Ferry is frequented by trading vessels, which import
lime, coal, bone-dust, and merchant goods, for this parish and dis-
trict, and export grain, wool, whisky, &c. At Dunrobin there is
a pier for the use of small vessels.
     Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated about the
middle of the parish, and so near the sea, that the glebe only in-
tervenes.The situation is convenient for the parishioners; the
village, which contains from a third to a half of the population,
being in its immediate vicinity, and most of the remaining part,
with the exception of a few families, who are not far from the neigh-
bouring parish churches, being within less than three miles of it; and
the extremities of the parish, which are more thinly inhabited, being
in any direction scarcely more than six miles distant from the church.
The church was built in 1738. The southern aisle was added in
1751, and at present the building is in good repair. It is fitted to ac-
commodate 565 persons.-The manse was built in 1827.-A large
proportion of the glebe is sand and gravel. Of good glebe land
there is scarcely the legal measure of four and a-half acres; and
it has become greatly deteriorated by being cut up by a neighbour-
ing stream. Calculating according to the average rent of land in
this parish, which is L.1, 2s., its value annually is evidently small.
There is no grass glebe.-The annual stipend consists of 131 bolls
of victual, old county measure, and L.75 in money. There is no
separate allowance for sacramental expenses. The teinds are
supposed to be exhausted. There is no public place of worship
of any kind in the parish, but the parish church. There is no
catechist.
     The average number of communicants in this parish, which is 70,
must, when compared with the population, appear strikingly small;



