
			CRIEFF.                          515

ners retiring from business, which had given regular employe-
meat to many of the inhabitants, and particularly to poor women,
during the space of eighteen years and which paid the average
sum of L. 60. a-week in wages. The dissolution of this partner-
ship was a great loss to many a poor person in Crieff.
     Agricultural Society.-The Strathearn Agricultural Society was
instituted on the 6th December 1809, by the late Sir Patrick Mur-
ray, Bart, of Ochtertyre, for the improvement of stock, farm-pro-
duce of all kinds, and other agricultural purpords; and it inbludes
a district of ten parishes in the upper part of Strathearn.  At its
first institution, and for some years afterwards, the meetings of the
society were well attended both by the principal resident heritors,
and by their tenentry. But the former become gradually more
and more remiss in their attendance, and the latter seceded from
it, owing to the neglect of the former, and to the depression in the
value of agricultural produce, which took place about the year 1815,
and which has continued ever since. From these circumstances,
the Strathearn Agricltural Society had fallen into a state of such
abeyance that it was found necessary, either to break it up alto-
gether, or to remodel it upon a scale much less comprehernsive than
that upon which it had been originally framed. And accordingly,
on the 27th March 1834, it, received a new constitution,and was
subjected to new rules, by which its transections are still carried on.

		V. PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Town.-There is no other market-town and no other village in
the parish, than Crieff itself and the population of the landward
part of the parish bears no proportion to that of the town. The po-
pulation of the town amounted in 1776 to 1592; in 1792 to 2071;
in 1827 to 3700; and in 1835 to 3835. The trade of Crieff
si principally carried on with Glasgow; though merbantile con-
nexions are maintained with Edinburgh, Perth, Stirling, Dundee,
and several towns in England. And some idea may be formed of
the home consumption of different commodities from the circum-
stance, that employment is given  to not fewer than  7 bakers, 3
bankers, 8 blacksmiths, 12 butchers, 7 carriers, 21 carters, 10
dress-makers, 37 grocers, 10 baberdashers and cloth shops, 6
medical men, 17 shoemakers and shoe shop, 16 tailers (masters,)
and 8 writers.
     But though there is no lack of tradesmen, and professional per-
sons of every description, it is different with the representatives of
civil authority. It is very true, as we have already stated, that a
baron-bailie-we should have said that three baron bailies-are


