
     Statistical Account

of a rich and heavy mould.  On the N. side of the river, 
the ground is flat and level;  and on the S. it rises with a 
gradual ascent, terminating at one corner of the parish in the 
hill of Urchany, the only eminence in the parish deserving 
the name of a hill. 

   Town.-The town is a royal burgh.  In conjunction with
Inverness, Forres, and Fortrose, it returns a member to serve 
in parliament.  At what period it was erected into a royal 
burgh, is uncertain*.  The immunities of Nairn originally 
appear to have been very extensive; however, in the lapse 
of time, these have been greatly lessened; so that the com- 
mon good now consists only of a few moors, which of late 
have been let on various leases, and which;  in process of 
time, will be of considerable advantage to the community. 
There are likewise some lands, besides the burgage lands, 
which pay eques and feu-duties to the town; therefore, though 
the public revenue be now but small, yet it is increasing, and 
in a few years will be considerable.  The town originally, 
being situated in a different place, probably, from where it 
now stands, was defended by a castle.  As far back as the 
time of King Malcolm the First, Buchanan informs us that 
this castle was taken by the Danes, and that by them the 
custodes or keepers thereof were cruelly used.  Since that pe-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The first charter, of which any copy is extant, was obtained from James 
the Sixth of Scotland, in the year 1589, being the renewal of one granted by 
Alexander, perhaps the first of that name who swayed the Scotch sceptre, as it 
is only said to have been granted by Alexander.  There is also another charter 
by Charles the Second, in confirmation of the abovementioned one, dated 1661.
The town-council consists of 17 members, viz. the provost, 3 bailies, dean of 
guild, and treasurer, with II counsellors, 9 of which make a quorum.  The 
3 bailies, the dean of guild, and treasurer, in consequence of a late decision 
of the House of Peers, must be resident.  The whole trades make but one cor-
poration.


