
300                    FORFARSHIRE.

Earl of Huntly, at that time commander of the royal army, on
his passage over the Grampians. They met in an eng`gement
near Brechin, where the Earl and his party were completely de-
feated. The principal cause of the defeat was the desertion of
the laird of Balnamoon with 300 men, during the heat of the con-
test. The Earl was hotly pursued to the Castle of Finhaven,
where, when he entered, he gave vent to his rage and mortifica-
tion at his defeat in the horrible oath, that he would. endure seven
years' torment to have gained the honour, which had that day fal-
len to his old enemy the Earl of Huntly.
	The Castle of Finhaven was afterwards the scene of a singular
spectacle, which, in its mixture of meanness and magnificence, is
very characteristic of the times. Being completely humbled by
the battle of Brechin, the Tiger Earl thought it best to submit to
his sovereign, and to sue for reconciliation. With a view of strik-
ing terror into the hearts of the Earl and the other turbulent nobles
and barons in this quarter, James II. came with the royal army into
Angus-shire. Accompanied by several noblemen and gentlemen,
the once proud Earl came forth from the Castle of Finhaven, bare-
headed, and clad in sackcloth, like one guilty of a great crime, and
in this plight threw himself on the road before the King, falling on
his knees, weepidg and beseeching him to forgive him his offence
against him. The old historian, Lindsay of Pitscottie, har put a
long speech in his mouth, recounting all that his family had for-
merly done for the state. The historian adds, that when the Earl
had ended, the noblemen and gentlemen of Angus held up their
hands to the King, most solemnly crying for mercy, "till," as he
says in his old quaint graphic language, "their sobbing and sigh-
ing cutted their words so sore, that almost their very prayers could
not be understood." The consequence of all this piece of page-
antry, for such it was on both sides, was, that the King absolved
him from his crime of lese-majesty, and restored him to his dignity.
The King was then brought by the Earl to the Castle of Finhaven,
and was there "banquetted right magnificently."
	The castle was on another occasion the scene of great festivity.
In 1545, Lindsay, the Master of Crawford, was married to the
daughter of Cardinal Beaton. The dowry, of this lady is stated to
have been 4000 merks,-a very large sum at that time. The Car-
dinal himself was present in the castle on the occasion, and honour-
ed it with all his ecclesiastical pomp and magnificence.


