
474                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

  With regard to dress, the minute of the synod of Moray, dated
1624, " discharging ministers within the bounds of the Inverness
presbytery from coming to their meetings of presbytery in bonnets
and plaids," would not now apply to the people, far less to the
clergymen. It is true, the broad flat bonnet worn by the Moray
farmer of last century may still be seen on old men ; and the
Glengarry bonnet on young men and boys. But the latter, as
well as the sprinkling of tartan frocks and jackets among children,
and the showy tartan waistcoats worn by young men, are the pro-
duct of a more modern mania for the Celtic costume. It is pleas-
ing to see the endless variety of clan and fancy tartans displayed
in the cloaks and shawls of females.
   In estimating the character of the people, it will be necessary
to divide them into three classes-first, the fishers, generally speak-
ing, a correct and orderly set of people, seldom outraging the mo-
ral duties ; rarely associating with persons out of their own voca-
tion, and generally possessing the necessaries of life in abundance.
It must, however, be added,'that they do not appreciate the advanta-
ges of education. Next, the Chelsea pensioners, many of whom are
located in the parish, having married natives when stationed with
their regiments in the Fort, and having been swayed by female influ-
ence in the choice of a local habitation. This class, though there are
many honourable exceptions, is rather improvident and intemperate.
The third class comprehends the peasantry and mechanics. From
the example of military habits, instances of dissipation were not un-
common a short time ago in this class. But a happy change has been
produced; the temperance principle has been pretty widely adopt-
ed, and the external improvement is already very manifest. Among
the seniors of this class, there are some bright examples of primi-
tive simplicity and sterling worth.

			  IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-There are about 1434 imperial acres in cultiva-
tion ; 1815 in pasture and heath, of which last 64 acres have been
lately planted with fir and larch by the proprietor, Earl Cawdor,
and preparations are in progress for extending the plantation con-
siderably. * In the Ordnance lands in the neigbbourhood of the
fort, there are 216 acres of gravel and sand, rendered waste by
early inundation.
   The average rent of arable land per acre is about 15s. 6d.; the

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, seventy-six acres have been inclosed, and are to be
planted this season. From 300 to 400 acres are to be planted next year.


