
                                 KIRKMICHAEL.                    787

     shape is quadrangular, approaching to the figure of a rhombus, of
     which the greater diagonal is 7 feet, and the lesser 5 feet. Its
     mean thickness is about 2 1/2 feet. Its solid contents are therefore
     about 51,075 cubical feet.
       On the north side of the stone, at the distance of 60 yards, on
     a small eminence, are two concentric circles, similar to that al-
     ready described, and a single circle adjoining to them on the east
     side. Beyond this, at thirty-seven yards distance, on another small
     eminence, is another pair of concentric circles, with a single one
     adjoining to them on the east side. Beyond these, at forty-five yards
     distance, is a third pair of concentric cirles, with their adjacent
     circle on the east side. Farther on to the north-east, at the distance
     of 90 yards, is a single circle, and beside it, on the west side, two
     rectangular enclosures of 37 feet by 12; also a cairn 23 or 24 yards
     in circumference, and about 12 feet high in the centre. Several
     small cairns are scattered in the neighbourhood. One hundred
     and twenty yards west from the rocking-stone is a pair of concentric
     circles, with a small single circle beside them of 7 feet in diameter.
     All the pairs of concentric circles are of the same dimensions, the
     inner one being about 32 feet, and the outer about 45 or 46 feet
     in diameter; and all of them have a breach or doorway four or five
     feet wide on the south side. The single circles are, in general,
     from 32 to 36 feet in diameter, and have no breach. The vesti
     ges of all these structures are perfectly distinct, and many of the
     stones still retain the erect posture in which all of them bad pro-
     bably been placed at first. Cairns and circles similar to those de-
     scribed are to be seen in other hills of this parish, particularly be-
     tween Strathardle and Glenderby. There are likewise several tall
     erect stones, called here in Gaelic, Crom-leaca, or Clach-shleuch-
     da, stones of worship.-(Old Account.)
        Parochial Registers.-These begin in the year 1650, and con-
     tain records of the marriages and births, and, at times, of deaths.
     They have not been regularly kept till of late years.
        Land-owners.- These are, Mrs Farquharson of lnvercauld,
     valued rent, L.355, 17s. 4d.; Miss Rutherford of Ashintully,
     L.320, 12s.; Patrick Small Keir, Esq. of Kinmonth, L.336, 14s.
     11d.
        Mansion Houses.-These are, Ashintully, the residence of Miss
     Rutherford; and Woodhill, the residence of dam Fergusson,
     Esq.


