			TANNADICE.                            203

relieved, by a decreet of augmentation obtained thirty years ago.
Still the living is very inadequate to the charge. The glebe, ex-
clusive of garden, &c. consists of eight Scotch acres, and if valued
at the same rate as a few additional acres which the incumbent
rents, would be worth L.28 Sterling. The church has had a choir
and an oriel window,--indications of a Roman Catholic origin.
It is in a tolerable state of repair, but otherwise very inconvenient
and uncomfortable. The manse was built in 1797, and has since
received an addition, and, as a whole, is substantial, comfortable,
and most delightfully situated. The other accommodations are
of later erection than the manse, and are spacious and substantial.
	The parish church, which is but indifferently seated, may
contain 650 persons. The communicants are about 570, besides
about 100 who annually communicate at Cortachy; in all, nearly
700.  Three of the heritors are of the Episcopalian persuasion,
and two are Presbyterians. There are three women and one man
who attend the Secession. An Episcopalian minister officiated in
the parish church till the year 1716; but, being favourable to the
rebellion, he was dismissed, and his son was hanged. The people
then elected and got a Presbyterian minister ordained and admit-
ted; but in the course of six years he became so unpopular, and
was so grossly slandered, as to be deposed; but upon a review of
the sentence, it was found so iniquitous that it was cancelled in a
few years; yet the poor man had neither opportunity nor encou-
ragement to exercise his restored privileges, as another had in the
meantime been installed in his place. Nor did the latter long en-
joy his situation. On his death, St Mary's College wished to fill
up the vacancy, but the person they recommended being rejected,
another was popularly elected. At next vacancy the patrons exer-
cised their right, and after going more than once the round of all
the church courts, made it good. If the three former incumben-
cies were stormy, this was a hurricane, terminated only by death, the
settler of all controversies, and leaving a large debt for law expenses.
	Education.--The parochial schoolmaster has an excellent dwell-
ing-house, and teaching-room apart,--both beautifully situated.
His accommodations are good, and his salary the maximum.
There are other three male teachers in the parish,--one of whom
depends nearly altogether upon school-fees; but besides fees, the
other two have teaching-rooms, dwelling-houses, and gardens, free,
and not less than L.10 annually, by subscription or otherwise.
There are about as many female as male teachers in the parish;


