
600 			       LANARKSHIRE.

                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        "During the reign of William the Lion, the territory or ma-
nor of Cormanock was possessed by Henry, the son of Anselm, who
took from it the local appellation of Henry of Cormanock. He
appears as a witness to a number of cbarters of Williarn the Lion,
in which he is called, ' Henricus de Cormanoc.' Before the year
1189, this Henry, for the salvation of the souls of his father and
mother, granted, in perpetual alms, to the abbot and monks of
Paisley, the Church of Cormanock, with half a carucate of land
in the same manor, and common of pasture, and all other ease-
ments; and be directed, that when he and his wife, Johanna, died,
their bodies, with a third part of their gnods, should go to the same
monastery. The church, &c. continued to belong to the monks
of Paisley till the Reformation."--" In 1587, the patronage and
tithes of the church of Carmanock, which were then held by Lord
Claud Hamilton, as Commendator of Paisley, for life, were granted
to him and his heirs, together with the other property of the monks
of Paisley; and upon his death in 1621, they were inherited by
his grandson, James Earl of Abercorn. In 1653, the patronage
and tithes of Carmunnock passed, with the Lordship of Paisley, from
the Earl of Abercorn, to Sir William Cochran of Cowden, who
was created Lord Cochran in 1647, and Earl of Dundonald in
1669. In the following century, the patronage of the church of
Carmunnock was acquired by Stuart of Castlemilk," (Chalmers'
Caledonia.) The patronage still remains with the descendants
of the last mentioned family, the present proprieter of Castlemilk,
and patron of the parish, James Stirling Stirling, grand-nephew of
the late Lady Stuart, being a minor.
	Land-owners.--There are in all sixteen heritors, but only two
of an considerable extent, viz. the above-mentioned James Stirling
Stirling of Castlemilk, whose property extends to more than the
half, and Humphry Ewing M'Lae, Esq. of Cathkin, who is in
possession of nearly one-third of the parish. With three excep-
tions, the remaining 14 are feuars, who at different times have pur-
chased a piece of ground from Castlemilk.
	Parochial Registers.--Before the year 1640, a registration o
marriages and births began to be kept; but several parts of the
register, from decay and other accidental causes, cannot now be
read. There is an entire register both of marriages and births from
1765, and the different parochial records are now kept with great
accuracy and neatness.





