
506                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the shrewd guess, that he "had been at the Dowloch," both sug-
gested an excuse for taciturnity, and a reason for not farther at-
tempting to break it. The medical faculty will learn no doubt
with dismay, that the Noble proprietor is about to restore Dowloch
to all its former glory; some have hinted, for the less poetic, pur-
pose, of accommodating wild-fowl. But if any one of that truly
Noble house should ever stand in need of the charmed water, this
much may be safely affirmed, that it were deeply to be deplored,
if there were not at command greatly less questionable aid.
	Will it be thought to be beneath the dignity of Statistical lite-
rature, to record matters of such questionable veracity, beside de-
tails which are only valuable, if admitting of the most rigid scru-
tiny? Perhaps the moralist will find ah excuse, in the illustration
they afford of the state of society, at a period not very remote from
our own.
	Land-owners.--There are nine heritors in the parish who pay
stipend. Of the whole valued rent, L. 6799, 8s., L. 5644, 8s. 4d.
is attached to the property of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch.
	Gardens at Drumlanrig Castle.--Drumlanrig Castle, his Grace's
Dumfries-shire residence, stands at the extremity of the parish of
Durrisdeer, and within a few hundred yards of the parish of Penpont.
A part of the pleasure grounds attached, and the extensive, new gar-
dens, which were begun about six years ago, and are scarcely yet
finished, are situated within the parish of Penpont. These, with the
elegant cottage for the accommodation of the gardener, designed by
Mr Burn, the architect, have been made at an expense of nearly
L. 11,000.  And the soilbeing excellent, and the whole establishment
under the most judicious management, in a few years they will be as
productive as any in Scotland. The position of the gardens, in point
of taste, may; perhaps be questioned; but no other locality held
out the same advantages in point of soil, extent, aspect and shel-
ter. The vegetable garden is four acres within the walls; and
the quality of its productions not excelled by Covent Garden mar-
ket itself. There are 600 feet of glass divided as follows: 100
allotted to vinery; 100 to peach-house; 100 to Dutch peach-pit;
100 to pine stove; 50 to succession pine-house; 100 to forcing-
frames, for melons, cucumbers, &c.; and 50 to an exotic stove. In
these, excepting the forcing-frames, water is employed to produce
the necessary degree of heat, and all, the departments are kept in
the most beautiful order. The exotic stove contains many of the


