
392                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

and the traitor Duke of Albany attempted to plunder Lochmaben
on St Magdalene's fair day; but they were disappointed. In a
charter of novodamus, granted the 16th July, 1612, by James VI.
he gives as a reason for its renewal, that the burgh records had
been destroyed when it was burnt by the English. This charter
confirms all former charters which had been burnt, and it grants
of new to the said burgh all the lands belonging to the same. It
also gave full power to the inhabitants to elect magistrates for the
government of the people thereof. We may state here, that Wil-
liam Maxwell sat in the Scots Parliament, as commissioner for the
burgh of Lochmaben in October 1612. This is the first instance
that can be traced of its representation in Parliament.
	This burgh is governed by a provost, three bailies, a dean of guild,
a treasurer, and nine ordinary councillors. There are five incorporat-
ed trades, which annually elect their deacons and office-bearers; and
the deacons with. the masters of craft, choose their convener; but
none of them ex officio are members of the town council. The
revenues of this burgh are very small, arising from the feu-duties
and customs which are collected within the burgh roods. These
funds are at present under the judicial management of the Lords of
Session. The town contains about 1000 inhabitants, 39 of whom
have votes under the Reform Bill for a member of Parliament. This
burgh was one of the few which did not come under the spirit of the
Reform Act, farther than losing its power, (which perhaps was its
greates,) as one of the five burghs which returned a member to Par-
liament. There is a very handsome town-hall with a spire and clock,
built in 1745,--under which there is the jail and a lock-up-house,
with an arched space in front for weighing the differedt commodities
brought to market. When the cross, which was standing in l479, was
destroyed, there is a story told of the manner in which the magis-
trates for the time being got the present one erected. At the time
the castle of Elshieshields was built, some of the bulding materials
were left remaining; and Lochmaben being without a cross, which
was indispensable in all burghs, the town council, as the price of these
materials for erecting the cross, made over to the laird of Elshie-
shields, his heirs and successors, the mill and mill lands of Loch-
maben, being a part of the burgh property, from which lands the
present proprietor draws L. 100 Sterling.
	There are no manufactories or trade of any kind carried on,
so as to induce strangers to settle in the burgh. Some years
ago, large quantities of flax were raised in this parish,--which
				     3


