
4                      FIFESHIRE.

Above the gravel and sandstone strata which lie along the banks
of the Eden and Lady Burn, trap rock, greenstone, and clinkstone,
abound and are quarried extensively. Neither coal nor lime are to
be found in the parish, nor in any part of the Strath of the Eden or
How of Fife,-although both of these valuable articles, are in abun-
dance, and of excellent quality, about seven, and ten miles to the
south.
The soil of the parish is very variable, from a light sandy soil to
that of a strong and heavy clay. In general, however, it is good
and fertile, and through the means of long cultivation, and from a
full command of manure, it is highly improved, and produces the
finest crops.
Zoology.-The rarer species of birds to be found in the parish,
are the jay, the golden crested-wren, the willow-wren, the water-
hen' the water-ouzel, the kingfisher, the long-tailed titmouse, the
goat-sucker.*
                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
There is a good map of the parish lately executed and litho-
graphed by John Govan, Esq. W. S. common agent for the heri-
tors in adjusting the localities,-and which, though not scientifically
correct,,gives a good view of the conjoined parishes. There is also
a good plan of the town in Wood's Burgh Atlas, published several
years ago.
Antiquities.-Tlie ancient Castle of Cupar stood on the termina-
tioii of the mound already described as running along the course of
the Lady Burn. This is represented by Buchanan as a place of very
considerable strength in the time of Edward Baliol. During the
invasion of the English at that time, it was seized upon, and occu-
pied by them till they were driven by famine to abandon it and re-
turn across the Forth to their own country.  Its position -at the
junction of the Eden and Lady Burn favours the opinion, that, at
altime when these streams were not so well guarded within their
banks as they now are by artificial means, it must have been a for-
tress of considerable strength, and in a rude state of warfare must
bave presented considerable resistance to an assailing force. While
workmen were mployed some years ago in improving the line of
road, that runs to the east, several skeletons were found, which were
conjectured to,be those of the soldiers who had fallen while con-

A pack Of fox hounds is kept at Cupar as head quarters, subscribed for by seve-
gentlemen in the cou"ty, and all there are aburidince of woods in Fife, the BP
is generally good. There is also at Cupar it small subscription pack of bariers. 
                                  4

