
           398                        PERTHSHIRE.

           quired, are sufficiently qualified to teach.  The parochial school,
           for some years past, has been conducted entirely by an assistant and
           successor to the schoolmaster.  The latter individual enjoys, as a
           retiring salary, the legal salary, which is the maximum, together
           with an addition, secured to him by the heritors, sufficient to make
           up to him a complete annuity of L. 40 Sterling.  The assistant,
           so long as he continues in this capacity, enjoys from the heritors
           a separate and independent salary of L. 25, besides the school-
           house, which contains the legal accommodation, the schoolmaster's
           house, and the legal quantity of garden ground, * all rent free.  He
           is also entitled to the whole of the school-fees.  Having, moreover,
           been appointed session-clerk, he derives from this office an addi-
           tional income of not less, on an average, than L. 15 a-year.
              In the case of the other schnols, the fees form the whole of the
           teacher's income, with the exception of the privileges already men-
           tioned.
              The amount of the school fees in the parochial school may, at
           an average, be about L. 45 per annum.  The amount in the largest
           of the other schools, may be about L. 27 ; in the next, about L. 18;
           and in the two smallest, it cannot be more than L. 6 or L. 8.  In
           all the schools, however, there are many instances in which the
           teacher finds it difficult to realize the payment of the sums which
           are due.
              Even in the parish school, the other branches, such as French
           and Latin, have very seldom been required by any of the scholars.
              At the time of the presbyterial examination of the schools in
           March 1837, the proportion of those attendiing them was 9 1/4 out
           of every 100 of the population.
              With the exception of one district, there is no part of the parish
           so distant from some one or other of the schools as to prevent the
           attendance of children.  The centre of the district in question is three
           miles distant from the nearest school within the parish, although it is
           not more than half that distance from the schonl of the adjoining
           parish.  The district contains a population of about 200 indivi-
           duals.  One or two of the schools would require to be enlarged ;
           but the only additional school which might be required would be
           in this district ; but the school fees would be quite inadequate, as
           the experiment has already proved, to support a teacher.
              In the year 1820, there were six Sabbath evening schools form-

           <FOOTNOTE>There is no garden ground belonging to the office of schoolmaster in this parish,
           but he has the privilege of a garden, for which the heritors pay rent.
                                                         3


