
			DRYFESDALE.                           453

The Milk and Corrie diversify and enrich the east and south-east,
sides. They have nothing peculiar, but like other streams contain
plenty of small fish.
	Geology.--No minerals or ores of any kind are found here. There
are some beds of a very soft kind of freestone found at Oldwells,
but not wrought. At the old cauldron near Dryfesdale gate, there
is some good shell marl, which is now only wrought by the tenants
on whose grounds it is found. There is also at Quaas, a quarter
of a mile west of Lockerbie, at the southern end of the parish, a
rock of very dark-coloured limertone, not made use of. The very
great quantities of rag and whinstone supply the deficiency of sand-
stone. These make good, durable, and at the same time beautiful
walls, when skilfully wrought.
	There is little peat-moss in the parish, except some small spots
on the west side.
			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.--On the holm of Dryfe, as stated in the former Ac-
count, about half a mile below the old church-yard, are two very aged
thorn trees, with a tumulus at their base, called Maxwell's Thorns,
because they point out the place of the remarkable fight on Dryfe-
sands, between the Maxwells of Nithsdale, and the Johnstons of An-
nandale. There are vestiges of strong towers at Old Walls, Kirk-
town-mains, Nether-place, Myrehead, and Daltonhook. There are
evident remains of eight camps or forts, some square or Roman, others
circular or British, and mostly built on eminences, because about
2000 years since (their age) the sides of the eminences or hills had
been covered with growing wood, and the present flat or low lying and
holm lands in Annandale had partly been a morass, or under water;
hence we find, that the Roman roads were generally made on ris-
ing ground, when it could be got. The most remarkable are two,
the one British, and the other Roman, facing each other, and se-
parated by a n`rrow morass. They are built on two hills east of
the village Bengall, the name alluding to the forts on the hills,
signifyinf the hill of the Gauls. Old pieces of armour and war-
like weapons have frequently been found in them, and the skeleton
of a man was found in a cairn on the intervening morass, thought
to have lain there for some ages; and some fragments of his dress
or accoutrements were carried off as a curiosity, particularly the
sandals, curiously wrought and bound around the mouths with
leathern thongs, which were conveyed into England, for the Oxford
Museum. There is also a Roman fort, beautifully situated upon


