
76                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

After this come the byre stable, and other necessary houses, ar-
ranged in an order by no means the most convenient or pleasing,
Some have of late built houses of better construction, which have
a more pleasing aspect, and must at the same time afford their oc-
copiers more comfort than houses built after the structure follow-
ed till very lately in this county. It may be mentioned that at-
tention is paid to cleanliness, both in the domestic economy and
dress of the peasantry, and the sober and the industrious enjoy
that share of the comforts of life with which people in the lower
ranks arei generally found to be content; and that they are so in
this parish, the writer knows from the experience of several years
spent among them. In a Population so great, there must of neces-
sity be individuals of very different dispositions, and of various de-
grees of intelligence; but, keeping out of view occasional brawls
and a few squabbles which very seldom occur, the great mass of the
population is to be considered as composed of good moral charac-
ters, who, in outward behaviour, conduct themselves in a manner
becoming the Christian name; and there is a reason to hope, that
not a few have felt the vital influences of the gospel of peace.
The whole of the inhabitants, with the exception of thirty-three
individuals, are attached to the Established Church of Scotland.
Making allowances for the distances which they have to travel,
and the very bad roads by which they must come, the people on';
the whole are regular in attending public worship on the Sabbath,
as *all as cateebeticalkexercises on week-days. That they are
exempted from the failin and shortcomings of out nature, is
what can be neither expected nor affirmed. That a few young men,
prompted by folly and the more love of sport, should occasionally
trespass against the game laws, can surprise no one who considers
the temptations to'which individuals are exposed in a place vhere
wide extended moors, with abundance of game, are inducements
to the sportsman too powerful to be reqisted. This is no t an apo-
logy for breaches of 14w it is a mere statement of facts, which,
whon considered, must make the rarity of such breaches highly
tmffitable to the inhabitants of renibte districts, who cart often
commit a -trespass of this nature without the; least fear of de-
tection.
                     IV.-INIDUSTRY.
Agriculture.-The parish, as already observed, may be consi-

<FOOTNOTE>Of these, six, an exciseman and his family, who were Episcpallans, have lately
left the parish.
                         3



