
                          EDINBURGH.                          725

   The contributors were erected into a corporation in 1742, and,
the funds accumulating, advantageous purchases of land were
made, which subsequently increasing much in value enhanced the
funds of the institution. In 1812 considerable additions were
made to the hospital. But the situation being originally low, and
the contiguous buildings still farther obstructing free ventilation,
a new site was fixed upon in the Dean grounds, north of the
Water of Leith, and a very handsome and commodious building
was erected there in 1832 at an expense of about L. 16,000. It
accommodates about 200 orphan children. Orphan children from
any part of Scotland are admitted, a benefaction of L. 200 en-
titling the donor to present a child for admission. A good plain
education is given to both sexes, and the girls are exercised in the
domestic duties of the house to train them for servants. The
old hospital, which interfered with the railway terminus, has been
pulled down.
   Gillespie's Hospital.-This hospital was founded by James
Gillespie of Spylaw, who, by deed dated 1796, bequeathed a
considerable part of his ample fortune to the endowment of an
hospital for old men and women, and a free school for the instruc-
tion of 100 poor boys in reading, writing, and arithmetic. The
present building was commenced in 1801, and the trustees were
erected into a corporation by Royal charter. The management
is vested in the master, treasurer, and twelve assistants of the mer-
chant company, five members of the town-council, and the mini-
sters of the Tolbooth and St Stephen's churches. The gross
annual revenue amounts to about L. 1500. The building, which
is in the Gothic style, is commodious, and contains about 50 in-
mates. The school-house is in a detached building, and educates
150 boys.
   John Watson's Hospital.-In 1759 Mr John Watson, a Writer
in Edinburgh, left a reversion of his fortune, about L. 5000, for
the erection of a foundling hospital in Edinburgh. For many,
years the money lay at interest, under the guardianship of the
keeper and deputy-keepers of his Majesty's signet, until it had
accumulated to L. 100,000. As the utility and moral effects, of a
foundling hospital were much questioned, an act of Parliament was
at length obtained empowering the trustees, to alter the original
intention of the donor. They accordingly founded, in the year
1825, a building on the lands of Dean, "for the maintenance and
education of destitute children, and bringing them to be useful


