
906                 SUPPLEMENT TO THE

lections in many cases necessary.  This is an unhappy state of
things, which, it is hoped, will only be temporary.  But no change
can obliterate the interesting and important fact, that the Chapels
of Ease of Glasgow, hardly as sometimes they may have been
dealt with, were the means of saving to the general community a
very large sum of money through many years.  Let none thought-
lessly say that this would not have been a bad mode of endow-
ment.  The collections might have been so applied; but not only
would this have been destructive of the old and excellent practice
already referred to, but it could only have procured an endowment
for a very few places of worship.  To keep pace with the wants of
the people, such a number of chapels must have been built, and
let at so low a rate for the working-classes, as would have divided
and frittered away the collections, and made them altogether in-
adequate as a source of endowment.  It is the small number of
the Chapels of Ease, and so their ability to gather a richer class
of society within their walls, which renders their collections so con-
siderable as they are.  In short, the success of the Chapels of
Ease in collecting for the poor is a previous and indirect proof
of the fact, that thousands and tens of thousands of persons are
growing up, in the meantime, utter strangers to the ordinances
of religion.
   Even in the most favourable circumstances, the chapels soon
reached their limit, and that is a limit which leaves vast multitudes
utterly unprovided with the means of grace and salvation.  Deeply
impressed with the wide-spread and growing destitution in Glas-
gow, a number ofenlightened and generous Christian men formed
themselves into a society, for building twenty additional churches
in the city and its vicinity, in connection with the Establishment,
in five years.  The principles of the society and corresponding re-
gulations are such as to restore the parochial system to its original
efficiency,--breaking down large parishes to a manageable size,--
giving a preference in seat-letting to the parishioners,--and pro-
viding that the price of a large number of the sittings shall be so
low as to render them accessible to the poor and working-classes.
Under the blessing of the great Head of the Church, the under-
taking was cordially entered into, and in less than a year L.21,400
were subscribed, by 140 persons, chiefly in subscriptions of 1.100
and L.200, payable in five instalments.
   Before proceeding to describe the operations of the Society, it
may not be unsuitable to present the reader with a picture of the


