
			GLASSERTON.	        	      47

people who are unfit for harder labour. It has been attempted to
take salmon with a draw-net at a place opposite the little village of
Monrieth; the plan does not succeed well, and can only be
practised in fine weather, and for a few days at a time during the
spring tides. The coast is too rocky for fishing in this way, at
least to any extent.
	Wages.--Men-servants by the half-year, with victuals, L. 5 or
guineas; women-servants from L.2 to L.2, l0s.; harvest wages
for men from L. 2 to L. 2, 5s. for women about L.1, 10s. The
day's wages is 1s. 4d. in summer, and 1s. 2d. in winter; day's
wages in harvest about 2s. without victuals.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--I have already mentioned the intro-
duction of steam navigation as one of our very recent improvements.
Since I commenced writing this report, I understand that the prin-
cipal land proprietors in the county have made an arrangement with
Government for a mail-coach to run from Newtonstewart by Wig-
ton, Garliestown, Whithorn, Port-William, and Glenluce, to Stran-
raer. This road passes through the parish of Glasserton; entering
this parish about half a mile from, the burgh of Whithorn, it conti-
nues in it to the village of Monrieth, within two miles of Port-
William, which is eight miles from Whithorn. Hitherto, New-
tonstewart was the nearest point at which the mail could be reach-
ed, which is twenty-two miles from the church of Glasserton.
This arrangement, therefore, may be considered as a great advan-
tage to this part of the country.
	Villages, &c.--This parish contains no towns, and only one village.
The nearest market-town is Whithorn. There is no public or pri-
vate associations of any description, and neither trade nor manufab-
tures. It is entirely an agricultural parish; and the few mechanics
which belong to it are dependent on or connected with agriculture,
such as smiths, joiners, shoemakers, tailors; but weavers have nearly
vanished, and the inhabitants chiefly depend upon the manufactures
of' other places for their clothing. Spinning and knitting, which
formerly was the employment of old and infirm women, is no
longer practised. Indeed, that class have been the greatest suf-
ferers from the introduction of machinery, for it has taken from
them the only employment which they had strength to perform,
and their sole means of subsistence.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church stands at the distance of
about 600 yards north of Glasserton House. It is surrounded


