
194                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

endless proportions with the slate-band. Their strata lie in every di-
rection, from being perfectly vertical to nearly horizontal. They are
sometimes found united to veins of porphyry, and run in a direction
from east-north-east to west-south-west. The highest parts of the
Stewartry consist entirely of granite,to the extent of miles, which
sometimes runs in veins among the strata of schistus.
	The soil lying on granite is generally barren. The degree of
ferthlity of the schistus district seems very much to follow the
proportion of slate-band in the rock below it. The hills of gravel
and tile are covered with soil similar to the mosses of which they
are composed.
	From the rocky nature of the country it is, every where abundant-
ly supplied with stones for building and draining; but, unless at
Kirkbean, I am not aware of any place where limestone has been
wrought. All the freestone employed is brought from beyond
Dumfries, a distance of twenty miles. It is only, therefore, sought
for expensive houses, to furnish door and window ribbets and lintels.
Many of the houses in Galloway are damp and liable to smoke.
There is a slate quarry at Parton, which is most convenient for the
neighbourhood. There are no circumstances indicating that coals
exist in the district.
	Zoology.-A small breed of horses, from twelve to fourteen bands
high, was formerly common, and held in high estimation in Gal-
loway. There being little occasion to employ them in the draught,
they travelled quickly and safely, in a rugged and mountainous
country. The ancient breed is now almost lost. Horses of greater
weight became necessary, as those ever way fitted for predatory
excursions ceased to be of peculiar value for the operose processes
of agriculture. Their colour is generally a light bay or brown,
with black legs; their heads were unusually small, and their whole
form indicated a capability of enduring great fatigue.  The horses
now to be found in Galloway, with the exception of being rather
smaller in size, differ little from those found throughout Scotland.
In the cart, they are all yoked single.
	Galloway has long been distinguished for a peculiar breed of
cattle, and, from the soil and climate being peculiarly adapted for
rearing them, they have received great attention. They are uni-
versally almost without horns, less than the horned breed of Lan-
cashire but larger than those in the West Highlands, and bearing
a very considerable resemblance to the cattle peculiar to Angus-
shire. Their general colour is black. In the dairies in the neigh-


