
     of Tarland.

some have 3, some 4 horses, with some 8 some 10, and some
12 oxen, for their ploughs; and some 2, some 3, and some 4
cows, with their calves of one and two years old.  Some have
2, others 3, and some 4 or 5 score of sheep upon a farm.  The
subtenants keep a horse and a cow.  The general value of the or-
dinary horses are from L. 5 to L. 12, and some few to L. 4 or
L. 15 sterling.  The common sizes of cattle are worth, from 3
years old and upwards, L. 3, L. 4, L. 6, and sometimes L. 7
sterling; cows from L. 2: 10 to L. 6: sheep are generally worth,
wedders from 10 s. to 15 s. ewes and lambs of the country breed
from 4 s. to 8 s. and lambs from 2 s. 6 d. to 4 s.-The farmers
in this country, in general, are obliged to send their labouring
cattle away, about the end of May, for summer grazing, to
glens at the distance of 30 or 40 miles, from whence they do
not return till about the end of August; and many of them
must send their sheep, at least their wedders, to distant pas-
tures for the summer season too.  This is a great draw-back
upon the improvement of their farms, as besides the expence
of paying for grass, which within these dozen of years has
risen from 2 s. to 8 s. a head for cattle, they lose the benefit of
their dung for 3 months.  Another great inconvenience they
have to struggle with in summer, is the difficulty of getting ser-
vants, which is owing to the following practice that has pre-
vailed for some years back:-a great number of able-bodied
winter servants engage to go out of the country in summer,
for building dykes and enclosures to thole gentlemen who are
carrying on improvements in the south country; and by there
means they make double, sometimes triple, the wages in the sum-
mer half year that they could get or expect by engaging with
farmer at home.  The Dyker, ashe is called, gets from L. 2 to L. 3
sterling, and sometimes more, for 3 months in summer; then
he returns home, and gets 25 s. or 30 s. perhaps 35 s. for harvest.
work, and from harvest, if it is early, to Martinmas, some will


