
                             KEIG.                          947

meter, and 13 1/2 feet in length, lying on the west side of the circle.
Of these upright stones the two principal ones last mentioned,
and three of the others, remain standing,-two are lying on the
ground, and the other four are broken.  In the middle of the cir-
cle is a quantity of loose stones, and near the centre a slab of 4
or 5 feet square, covering a small pit open on the south side.
The other circle, which is more imperfect, is situated in a belt
of wood, a quarter of a mile north-west of the farm-steading of
Old Keig.  It is about 66 feet in diameter, and in the cir-
cumference of the circle there are two upright stones, 9 feet
above ground, with an immense stone lying between them about
16 feet long, 6 feet high, and 5 broad at one end, and differ-
ing from the other in being flat on the top, of a quadrangular
form, and placed on the south side of the circle.  This could be
no rocking-stone, and has evidently been used as a stone of sacri-
fice, there being now no altar stone in the centre of the circle, if
it had ever been.  These rude circles were places of worship, and
generally of the circular form, because it was an emblem of eter-
nity.  They were either erected on eminences, that the Druids
might see the heavenly bodies, or in groves, because it was deem-
ed unlawful to build temples to the gods, or to worship them with-
in walls or under roofs. *  The rude upright stones by which they
were formed were representations of Celtic deities, + and particu-
larly the square stone, which implies solidity, stability, and the
power of God. ++  As these rude obelisks were the first description
of images in the world, S they were worshipped by the Druids,
and appropriately enough formed a part of the temple in their ido-
latrous system.  The large stone, 3 feet diameter, and 13 1/2 feet
long, which lies between two of these upright stones in the circle,
on the Cothiemuir hill, resembles much the rocking-stone, being
now inverted, with its base uppermost, which was so rounded that
it might move in a groove, and differs in its nature from the stones
of that locality.  These rocking-stones, which were the wonder of
the ancient world, were made to move by a protuberance of a cir-
cular form on the under surface, which moved in a socket, and was
poised in such a way as to vibrate by a touch of the hand, and yet

<FOOTNOTE>Tacitus de Morib. Germanorum, c. 9.
   Phurnutus de Nat. Deorum, c. 16
   Maximus Tyrius, Serm. 38.  Pausanias in Achaicis, Plin. 1. 14, c. 8. Clemen.
Alex. Stromat. lib. i.
   Themistius, Orat. xv.  Clem. Alexand. Stromat. lib. i.


