
218                        BANFFSHILLE.

in the bottom of the rivulet. It was erected by Mr Christie to
render the church accessible to the people of Cantly. One hun-
dred merks were lodged in the hands of the laird of Edingight, to
be laid out in repairing the bridge. This sum, no doubt, has been
long ago exhausted. The bridge was originally very narrow, hav-
ing been only intended for people on foot. To make it passable by
carts, another of the same size was added to it, in the year 1783,
the patron allowing the vacant stipend of that year to go to that
use. The two bridges, many years ago, threatened to separate;
but, on the appearance of a breach between them, they were im-
mediately bound together by bolts of iron.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Grange was separated from Keith in 1618, of which it once
formed a part. Both of these parishes are church lands. The pre-
sent church was built in 1795, and contains 616 sittings, allowing
eighteen inches for each sitter. It is not well situated for the bulk of
the population, being within a mile of one end of the parish. There
is a Secession meeting at the other end, the oldest, it is said, in the
north. There are, on an average, in the parish church, about 490
communicants, of which 155 are male heads of families; in the
Secession meeting, perhaps 90, made up of bearers from this and
the surrounding parishes. Secession minister's stipend is L. 70
yearly. The parochial manse and offices were built in 1814; the
offices are small, but the manse is large and good; the glebe is five
acres of good land; the stipend 14 1/2 chalders, Banffshire measure,
half barley, half meal, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. of communion elements.
Lord Fife is patron.
   Education.-The school and school-house are limited in extent.
The salary is the maximum, viz.  L.34, 4s. 4d. with a mortifica-
tion of L. 1, 2s. yearly, and the interest of L. 100, bequeathed
by the late Mr Bruce, minister of Dunbar. The master has the
benefit of the Dick Bequest.
   There is a school on the General Assembly's scheme, with a
salary of L. 25 yearly, and a cow's keep gratis, for the benefit of
which the people pay a rent, subscribed by the tenants in small
sums, to Sir James Innes, the proprietor, who refuses to sup-
ply the croft gratis. The school and school-house were built
by subscription in the year 1827, by the exertions of the
present minister. This seminary is of infinite importance in
this part of Grange, which would be otherwise entirely desti-
tute of the means of education. There are also two other schools


