
42                              ROXBURGHSHIRE.

of the trees promoted, and success secured in exposed situations
where trees are liable to die prematurely.
     The trees planted are oak, ash, elm, birch, beech, sycamore,
Scotch, larch,spruce and silver firs: and alder and willows are
planted in marshy places. Oak elm, and sycamore thrive well,
even upon cold, clay land, and in exposed situations in this parish, and
it is to be regretted a larger proportion of these varieties has not
been plated. Shelter has been the principal object in stripe or
belt plantings, and too large a proportion of the fir tribe has ge-
nerally been set in them. It has been observed that the spruce
firs, which had been set in those plantings, throve well while young,
but they soon began to dwindle, and do not now appear likely to
arrive at maturity, while the few silver firs, which have been plant-
ed, continue to thrive well, and are likely to become fine timber.
In cases where a fair proportion of deciduous forest trees have been
planted, particulary of oake, elm, and sycamore, they have as before
observed, thriven well even upon cold land and in exposed situa-
tions. Where the fir trees have been removed gradually and in
due time, the hardwood timber trees are likely to become ulti-
mately not only the occupiers, by giving permanent shelter in place of
the fir trees, which soon lose their side branches and cease to give
effective shelter. The hardwood trees will likewise become more
ornamental than the fir. Injury has in a few instances been done
to deciduous forest trees by pruning their side branches close off
from their stems. In the opinion of men of experience, timber
trees thrive best, either when they have not been pruned in any
way, or when being pruned, the branches have been shortened at a
distance from the stems, and above there are secondary branches
springing from the larger side branches.
     Rent, &c.--The average rent of arable land in the parish is
about 17s. 6d. per acre; the charge for summering a cow is L.3,5s.;
a three year old, L. 2, 15s.; a two year old, L. l. 17s.; a one year
old, L. l. 10s.; for wintering a cow on straw, with a little hay or
turnip in spring, L. 2, 5s.; a three year old, L. l.
ed land is L. l, per annum, and for a young sheep of the same
kind 12s. The above rates for sheep include turnip in spring.
The charge for keeping a Cheviot ewe on outfield or inferior land



