
     Statistical Account

are the great bars to improvements.  If it is objected, the
an advance of rent is expected at the end of the first 19
years, that may be agreed upon at certain periods of the
lease; and if judiciously managed for 38 years, it would be
worth a third or a half more than it was at the beginning.

   A more favourable Rotation would be highly advantage-
ous; a great deal more in grass, and less in tillage.  This
would be the easiest method to put farms into good order,
and to keep them in it.  The half of seed, labour, and ma-
nure might be spared; the work done in proper season, and
at the half of the expence.

   A generous Indulgence upon the part of the Proprietor to
the tenant may sometimes be very expedient; remitting
him some part, or allowing some deduction, in proportion
to his liberal improvements.  It is not requisite, where
farms are in good order; but considering the general condi-
tion of tenants, it is impossible farms can be improved
otherwise.  Whereas, if such a measure was adopted for 8
or 9 years, at the beginning of the lease, the farmer would
be enabled to apply a double quantity of manure, and
thereby greatly advance the value of the ground*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A gentleman of property in the neighbourhood, since these remarks,
has favoured the writer with a few lines, representing, in strong terms,
the injury done by hunters to the farmers in this parish.  He observes that
the exercise should be confined to an open country, and dry fields; for,
if pursued m a deep loamy soil, as here, the damage may soon be very
great, involving wheat, sown grass, hedges, anti all vegetation in ruin.
In a word, he does not know a greater grievance that a poor farmer la-
bours under.  The hint deserves notice; it comes from a gentleman who
is dressing his farm with a degree of taste equal to any in the country
To this, perhaps, it wilt be said, that gentlemen must have their sport.
Yet, with all deference to that noble and ancient profession, may it not be


