
     of Langholm.

thriving hedges.  On the S. and W. side of the town there
are also some small orchards, which, from their sheltered
situation, are in good years very productive.  In the gar-
dens adjoining the town, all hortulan vegetables grow vi-
gorously, and arrive at great perfection.  Not only in this
parish, but also in the whole district of Eskdale, it has been
ascertained by accurate calculations,that more rain falls
by a third than either at Hawick of Selkirk.  This differ-
ence is imputed to the communication with the Atlantic 
by the frith, from which, as being much larger
collection of water than German sea, there must, of
course, be a much greater degree of exhalation, which the
attraction of the surrrounding hills, acting as alembicks, con-
denses and discharges in rain.  Our heaviest rains, conse-
quently, are those from the S. W. which is exposed to the 
Solway frith.  Notwithstanding, however,the consequent
moisture of the atmosphere, the inhabitants, both in the
town and landward part of the parish, are in general very
healthy, and many of them live to a great age*.  Though

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mr James Moust, surgeon, a native of Aberdeenshire, died here
about 17 years ago, at the reputed age of 120 Certain it is, William Gar-
rioch, M. D. (from the same country), preceptor to the late and present 
Sir William Maxell of Springkell, and who died in the year 1768, at the 
age of 74, attended him asa scholar when he kept a school in Aberdeen
about the end of the last century.  In the year 1781, Goerge Swan,
cooper,died at the advanced age of 105, and was walking about a few
days previous to this death.  John Brown, dyer, died in the year 1776, at
the age of 101, and his sons, who follow the same employment, enjoy
perfect health, and carry on lusinels with laudable industry, at the ages
of 82 and 76.  It is but fair, however, to say that these two instances of
longevity have no other vouchers than their own report when living,cor-
robonated by the concurring testimony of their relatives, and of the parish
at large.  Prior to those periods, there are no regular registers extant, by
which the time of their births can be ascertained.  Since the induction of


