
266                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

4d. and the amount of school-fees L. 12.  He has the legal ac-
commodation, somewhat more than an acre of land adjoining his
house, and L. 4, 3s. 4d. of money, arising from a fund mortified
by Lady Yester, as a remuneration and encouragement for teach-
ing poor children.  The fees are, for reading, 2s. per quarter;
for reading and writing, 2s. 6d.; and for arithmetic, 3s., more be-
ing charged, however, for the higher branches.  There are none
who cannot read, and few who cannot write likewise, at the age
of seven years.  The distance of several families from the parish
school renders it extremely desirable that an additional one should
be erected, and a suitable teacher appointed by the heritors.  A
library connected with the Sabbath school has been attended with
great benefit.
     Savings Bank.--The nearest Saving bank is at Jedburgh, and
the persons by whom investments are generally made in it are
tradesmen and farm-servants.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.--One cottage, called the Alms-
house, still remains, which Lady Yester, according to her letters
of mortification dated 4th November 1630, and 14th March 1638,
bequeathed for behoof of the poor.  She likewise mortified L. 1000
Scots, the annual rent of which, L. 4, 3s. 4d., beside the week-
ly collections, is distributed in small proportions, among such
indigent individuals as have not been permanently admitted to
the benefit of an assessment.  The average number of poor on
the roll for the last ten years is 18, and the average allowance to
each is L. 4, 8s.  81/4d. per year.  Such is the decrease in their
number, however, that the sum allotted for their supply is at pre-
sent one-third part less than it had been for a long period.  The
mode of regular assessment for the maintenance of the poor has
been in operation here for a considerable number of years.  It
has had the effect, certainly, of lessening the shame and degrada-
tion naturally experienced by needy applicants, and which at first
were felt so strongly, as, in various instances, to prevent an appli-
cation being made.  As it is, however, a careful and judicious dis-
tribution of the funds will best insure the satisfaction of all parties.
     Fairs.--Two fairs are annually held at Pennymuir.  One was
established 15th October 1830, and the other in the month of
August thereafter.  The purpose of their establishment was the
more convenient disposal of sheep and lambs, of which about 1400
are presented for sale at each market.  Also on the 25th day of


