
	     142                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

around. In these, however, were included the original glebe; in lieu
of which, in asubsequent arrangement with the presbytery, the farm
of Buarblach, burdened as above, was given by regular deed, in-
serted in the records, to the incumbent of the parish in all time to
come. At the period of the transaction, it was no more than a
fair equivalent, but the increase in the value of land since makes
the glebe an important addition to the income of the minister. The
teinds of the parish are exhausted, and the heritors, having resign-
ed them on the occasion of the last augmentation, the stipend is
fixed at the annual sum of L. 237, 7s. 9 1/2d. Sterling.
   Education.-We have at present five schools : one parochial,
and four from the Edinburgh Gaelic School Society. The paro-
chial school is situated at a short distance from the manse ; has a
salary of L. 30 Sterling, with the legal accommodations, and a
large attendance of scholars, too poor to.pay almost anything.
The branches taught are, English and Gaelic reading, writing,
arithmetic, book-keeping, and sometimes Latin. Though the full
legal accommodations are provided for the schoolmaster, not L. 5
a year are drawn in the shape of school fees. The principle ap-
plied in selecting the situation for the church has also been ap-
plied in the case of the school-house. Not only is it in the north-
ern portion of the Glenelg district, so as to be useless to Arnis-
dale, Knodyart, and Morar, but, in addition to this, there being
no central point between the two glens, which form this northern
portion, convenient for the children of  both, it has been placed
within the reach of the chief population, viz. near the opening of
the larger glen, where it can easily be attended by 200 scho-
lars. Its distance from Glenbeg is thus three miles, from Arnis-
dale fourteen, from Knodyart eighteen and a broad ferry, and
from Morar twenty, and two such ferries. In short, it is conve-
nient only to about a fourth of the whole population. The immense
deficiency in the means of education has hitherto been met solely
by the Gaelic School Society,-a society which it is impossible to
mention without rendering it the tribute of our gratitude for the
unspeakable benefit it has conferred on so large a portion of the
Highlands. Glenelg owes it much. But the schools established
by this society being circulating, and their object limited to teach-
ing to read the scriptures in Gaelic, however valuable, considering
the character of the people for whom they are intended, they can-
not be held to be a sufficient substitute for parochial schools.
Three'additional,'parochial schools at least, we require, one for
Arnisdale, one for Knodyart, one for Morar; and besides these,


