
                     INVERKEITHING,                         247

to their ministers, and attend duly upon the public. ordinances
of religion. That are some Penny a-week Societies for mis-
sionary and religious purposes; and there are occasional collec-
tions made at the church door for Highland Schools, the India
Mission, and other similar objects.
  Education.--There is a parochial school, in which are taught
English, writing, arithmetic, Latin, Greek, French, geography,
mathematics, &c. The teacher has the maximum salary; there
is a good dwelling-house, and an elegant adjacent school-house.
The school fees may amount to about L. 70. There are six pri-
vate schools, in which the ordinary branches of education are taught,
and in which the teachers are supported by the school fees alone.
One is a female school for the higher and ornamental branches of
education. There is also a Sabbath day school, which meets both
before and after public worship, and is supported by subscriptions
and collections,and attended by numerous scholar. The expense
of education is moderate, being per quarter 3s. for English ; 4s.
for English and writing; 5s. for arithmetic; 7s. for Latin; and the
same for French. The number of scholars attending all these
schools is very nearly 400.
   Literature.-- There are three libraries,--a subscription, a circu-
lating, and a congregational one belonging to the dissenters, but
none of them contain any great number of books.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor receiving pa-
rochial aid belonging to the Established Church, was, during last
year (1835)  43. The accounts of the current year cannot be
made up, until the end of it. The allowances given them vary
from 6d. to 2s. 6d. per week, proportioned according to their
wants. The collections at the church door are upon an average,
L. 20 annually, and the subscription or assessment upon, the heri-
tors for the year above-mentioned was L. 110, out of which there
are L.10 given to the dissenters in iad of their paupers. there
are some small salaries paid to clerks, and church-officers. The
heritors pay according to their valued rents.
   Prisons.--The jail is by no means secure,-- several escapes have
been made from it. Excepting a vagrant or rioter upon the streets,
and that for a night, incarceration in this Prison is a rare event.
It is superintended by one of the town-officers.
   Fairs.--There are 5 fairs appointed to be held in this burgh,
which were once well attended by dealers in horses, cattle, and,
merchant's goods; but they are now merely nominal, no business


