
		DINGWALL.                                229

   The chartered constitution of the burgh consists in a council of
   fifteen members, including a provost, two ballies, a dean of guild,
   and a treasurer. These, by the late burgh Reform Act, are elect-
   ed from time to time by those residing within the royalty, who pos-
   sess or rent property to the yearly value of L.10 or upwards. The
   number of persons possessing this qualification here is about 100.
   Dingwall is one of the northern district of burghs that send a joint
   member to Parliament.
     The police of the place is very defective, owing to the limited
   state of the public funds. For although it possesses an average
   revenue of L.273, 7s. 2d. Sterling, arising from the superiority of
   certain lands held in feu of the burgh,-the fishings in the river
   Conan, &c. and the rent of a small residue of the public lands, still
   the interest of debts to a large amount, contracted chiefly in a te-
   dious law-suit with the Honourable Mrs Hay M'Kenzie of Cro-
   marty, regarding possession of part of the Conan fishings, together
   with the payment of public burdens, leave little to meet the ex-
   pense of an efficient system of police, and of cleaning, lighting, or
   improving the town.
   	The freedom of the town, which is an indispensable qualifica-
   tion to merchants commencing business here, costs from L.5 to
   L.15, according to the probable extent of the business to be car-
   ried on.
   	Means of Communication.-There is the greatest facility of com-
   munication between Dingwall and all parts of the country. The
   roads in all directions are surpassed by none in the kingdom. The
   mail-coach passes and repasses daily through the town, and in
   summer there are two additional daily coaches, one betwixt Ding-
   wall and Inverness by the ferry of Kessock, a distance of thirteen
   miles. And the other twice, each day between Dingwall and the
   Strathpeffer spaw, now a place of considerable resort, distant four
   miles and a-half. Weekly steam-boats from Edinburgh, and every
   second week from London, call at Invergordon, in this frith, distant
   only fourteen miles; and the town furnishes four post-chaises and six
   gigs.
   	There is a tolerably good harbour quite close to the town, con-
   sisting of a canal formed in the years 1815-17, at an expense of
   L.4365. The management of it is vested by an Act of Parlia-
   ment paassed in 1824 in a board of commisioners, a great ma-
   jority of whom consist of the magistrates of the town. The ave-
   rage revenue arising from it is about L.130, which is not more
   than sufficient to keep it in repair. The advantages resulting from


