
money, upon becoming a member is 5s.,  * and the contribution
1s. 6d. per quater. The sick or lame, if they have been four
years in the society, draw 5s. per week for thr first three
months,-2s. 6d. for the second three months, and afterwards,
while they may need support, 1s. 6d. Upon the death of a
member, L. 3 are allowed for funeral expenses, and upon his
wife's decease, if she has remained a widow, L. 2. If sickness
&c. can be proved to have originated in irregular conduct, the
individual is excluded from the benefit of the society.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 38, and the average sum per week al-
lotted to each is about 2s. It varies, according to their circum-
stances, from 1s. to 2s. 6d., and in a few instances to 3s. The
average annual amount of regular church collections is L. 34,
and the only other means of providing for the poor is by a re-
gular assessment, which has long obtained in this, as in all the con-
tiguous parishes. The amount of the assessment for the last year
in this parish was greater than usual,-being L. 227, 18s. 41/2d.
   There is an unwillingness manifested by some of the poor to
make application for parochial relief; but this is not the common
feeling. As in other places, when there has long been a com-
pulsory provision for paupers, this resource has ceased to be regard-
ed generally as degrading.
   Fairs.-There are two fairs held annually in the village of Swin-
ton,-the one in June, and the other in October. Originally
these fairs formed a market for cattle and agricultural produce,
but they do not now answer that end.
   Inn.-There is only one inn in the parish. It is in the vil-
lage. The accommodations are superior, and it is required as
a place of stay and refreshment on the public road from Berwick,
which passes through the village.
   Fuel.-Coal is almost the only description of fuel used. It
is procured in Northumberland, from a distance of ten miles, and
sells in Swinton at the rate of about 18s. per ton.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   Though no important improvement, not then commenced,
seems to have been effected in this parish since the period of the
last Statistical Account, there are perhaps few parishes which have

<FOOTNOTE>This entry money after 25 years of age increases 29.,-after 30, 3s., till 40,
when admission ceases.


