
826                       LANARKSHIRE.

stems.  Upon the glebe of Lammingtoune, and in a hedge common
to it and the Lammingtoune estate, there are only nine trees, five
of which are on the glebe, two of them old knurly oaks of no great
size, an ash 8 feet 2 inches, and an aged elm of great beauty 10
feet round the stems.  Of young trees, I have on Wandell glebe
about 30, and on that of Lammingtoune about 350, all planted in
1826.  I was told by an old man, who died about thirteen years
ago, that in his young days he remembered seeing several old fruit
trees, such as apples, pears, and cherries, growing near the " Old
Place," the remains of the Laird of Lammingtoune's orchard, all of
which have long since disappeared ! There was, in my recollections
a well-kept garden at Hillhouse, and there are still a good many fruit
trees in it.  The garden belonging to the schoolmaster is well laid
out, and supplied with a full complement of apple, pear, and plum
trees, put in three years ago, and promising to do well. He has also
a tasteful shrubbery and flower-plot in front of his house, and the
whole is enclosed with a thriving thorn-hedge.  At Beatlaws and
Mains, there are likewise neat gardens, lately formed, and in both
of which there are apple and other fruit trees.  There are a few
also at Otterburns and Loanhead.  In the little gardens about the
village, there have, for a length of time, been several apple trees,
some of which yield a fair crop in good seasons.  All these gar-
dens have gooseberry and currant bushes of excellent sorts.  When
I came to the manse in August 1823, there was neither gooseberry
bush, nor fruit tree, nor a single flower nor shrub near it ! In short,
the old garden had been completely destroyed during a vacancy
of five years ! A new garden wall was built in 1823, enclosing
about a Scots rood of ground; the wall is 9 feet in height, and
encloses the garden on all sides, except the north, where it is de-
fended by the back wall of the kitchen and offices.  The wall has
a freestone cope, and the whole cost L.74.  On the inside of the
wall there are thirty-nine fruit trees, and on the east and south
aspect of the same, outside, there are twenty more; comprehend-
ing apples, pears, plums, and cherries, of various sorts; all now
arrived at full bearing.  There are besides those on the wall, fifty-
eight standard trees, chiefly apples.  These last do not bear so
steadily as the wall trees, being of late much injured by the May
fly, or grub.   Along the whole extent outside of the east and south
aspects of the garden wall, there is a border for vegetables 9 feet in
breadth, outside of which, again, and separated by a gravel walk,
there is another border of about the same width planted with trees,


