
190			KINCARDINESHIRE.

are many parts of the north of Scotland, or what is locally termed
a pan or moorband.
	Climate.--The temperature of the atmospbere is low. On the
whole, throughout. tbe year there is little sunshine, a good deal of
rain, but comparatively little snow. The prevailing wind-seems to
be south-west.
	Hydrography.--The parish is well supplied with springs, and
the water is particularly good. The Dee washes almost all the
north side of the parish. This river is subject to great and sud.
den floods, so that no mill can be driven by its waters: hence
the small streams are used. A remarkable flood occurred on the
17tb September 1768; another on the 4th August 1829.
	Geology.--The rocks are all of primitive formation, granite
chiefly, gneiss in large masses. What is termed "iron slag" is
found in this parish. In the mosses are found great quantities of
timber, particularly oak of very large size, birch, and alder, with
shells of nuts.
	Zoology.--In Kingcausie wood, are roe-deer, sometimes in con-
siderable numbers. A few years ago, rabbits were unknown here:
they are now very frequent and destructive. Very few sheep are
bred or fed in the parish. Every season flocks of Highland sheep
are wintered in this parish--removed to the hills in March or
April. A considerable number of swine are reared at mills and
farm-houses, but all for exportation, as the lower ranks eat no
pork. The breed has been greatly improved, being crosses of
the Chinese with Berkshire and other breeds. They are sent to
london, both alive, and when cured in the shape of ham, the ship-
ping taking the refuse.
	Fishing.-- The part of the Dee opposite to the parish formerly
let at high rents for salmon-fishing, but now will not repay the
fishermen's wages, owing to the stake and bag-nets at the mouth
of the river.
	Botany.--The parish is rich in botany. Among the rarer spe-
cies are the Paris quadrifolia, and Linnea borealis, found in the
woods of Kingcausie.
	Considerable portions of the parish are covered with wood. The
trees to which the soil appears most congenial are the larch and
spruce, birch and beech.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities,--Part of this parish would seem to have been once,
a favourite haunt of the Knights Templars.


