
940                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

constrained to yield to the irresistible force of Divine truth ; in
the light of this truth, prejudice, ashamed, would hide its head;
and thus religious education, having its intrinsic worth once clear-
ly revealed to the public eye, would go forth with the prayers of
a united church, and with the rich blessing of the God of all
grace, conquering and to conquer.
   Friendly Societies.-There are three Friendly Societies in the
parish,-in some respects variously constituted, but having, as their
general object, the payment of small annuities to the widows of
deceased members, and of a limited allowance in cases of sickness
to members whose circumstances require such aid.  Two of these
societies also make a small allowance for decaying the funeral ex-
penses of deceased members.  The average annual disbursement
of all the three, for the years 1838, 1839, and 1840, amounted to
upwards of L.84.  These Societies appear to be well conducted,
and they have proved in many cases, eminently serviceable to the
poorer classes of the community.
   Savings Bank.-A savings bank, in terms of the acts of Parlia-
ment regulating such institutions, was established here in Novem-
ber 1839.  The operations of the bank extend to several of the
adjoining parishes; as the village of Ellon, from its central situa-
tion, is found to be a convenient place for the transaction of busi-
ness.  The sums deposited in the bank from the parish of Ellon
alone amounted, in May 1840, to nearly L.1100.  The amount
of sums withdrawn, from the commencement of the institution, up
to the same date, was something less than L.160.  The savings
bank promises to answer well the purposes of its institution.  Many
individuals of the working classes have now deposits to a very con-
siderable amount; and the circumstance, that all sums, however
small, are receivable, evidently tends to foster among them habits
of foresight and economy.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are usually about 40 per-
sons who receive a stated allowance out of the funds for the poor,
at an average rate, when they are not bedrid or peculiarly infirm, of
from L.1, 10s. to L.2 per annum.  In the case of bedrid paupers,
or widows who have been left in destitute circumstances with large
families, a weekly allowance is made, varying, according to the
exigencies of the case, from 2s. to 4s., and even 5s.  Of late years
there has been an unusually large number of such cases in the pa-
rish, which, of course, has pressed with proportional severity on
the funds.  There is from time to time, also, particularly in


