
120                       FIFESHIRE.

the robust appearance of the bleachers, although in general they
enjoy tolerably good health. Great attention is now paid by the
mill proprietors to the proper ventilation of the rooms in which the
people work. This is attended with the happiest effects on their
health.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Markets.-The nearest market-town to Leslie is Kirkaldy,
where an excellent weekly market is held on Saturday. This be-
ing a stock market, it is in general well attended, and has proved
of great benefit to the farmers and grain-dealers. It is about nine
miles from Leslie.
  Means of Communication.-There is a daily penny post from
Kirkaldy to Leslie. The town of Leslie is about a mile and a-
half from the high road to Dundee through Cupar. Coaches from
Edinburgh to Dundee, Cupar, Perth, &c. pass and repass on the
road during the summer,six or eight times everyday. There are no
toll roads in the parish. The roads are kept up by the converted
statute labour money, and are in excellent order. The bridges and
fences are all kept in the very best manner.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the most con-
venient part of the parish, being nearly in the centre. It was built
in the year 1820, and is in excellent repair. There are few coun-
try churches neater both in the exterior and interior. It is seated
for 850, but with great ease contains 1000. The free sittings may
contain 300. The manse was built in 1811, and is an excellent
commodious house. The arable glebe is not quite four acres in ex-
tent; and but indifferent land. There are nearly two acres of foggage;
and being close to the village, it lets rather high. The present rent
drawn is L. 257, per annum, for the whole. The amount of sti-
pend is L. 257 8s. 6d., including allowance for communion ele-
ments. Number of families attending Established Church, 270,
consisting of 1736 individuals.
  There are three dissenting chapels in the parish, and one small
congregation belonging to the Baptist connection. Two of the dis-
senting congregations belong to what is termed the United asso-
ciate Synod of the Secession Church ; the other to the Associate
Synod of Original Seceders. The ministers are paid by the pro-
ceeds of the seat rents. Two are supposed to have L. 110, the
other L. 70, with three houses. Number of families in the parish
attending, the three dissenting congregations, 183, consisting of


