
172			WIGTONSHIRE.

Mochrum and Luce. The rock-bramble (Rubut saxatilis) I have
seen nowhere in this country but in one spot near the Cree, where
it displays in autumn it pleasantly acid berries. The orders Ona-
graricae and Lythrarieae have their representatives in this parish;
and species of the numerous order Umbelliferae are but too com-
lon everywhere. I need scarcely name the Caprifoliaceae and
the Rubiaceae, but to note, that the northen bed-straw (Ga-
lium boreale) is abundant on the banks of the Cree, and of the
neighbouring stream, the Pinkill, in Minnigaff. I pass over the
Valerianieae and the Dipsaceae, as the offering nothing remarkable.
To these I may add the great order Cnmpositae, the genera of
which, thnugh numerous, are such only as are found in the great-
er part of Scotland. The Campanulaceae and the Ericeae are in
a similar predicament. The most distinguished plant of the order
Boragineae is the Omphalodes sempervirens, which exhibits its
bright blue flowers in one or two places under the hedges on the
road side. The only plant of the dangerous Solaneae which is
indigenous in Penninghame is the bitter-sweet (Solanum Dul-
camara), a deadly poison, but a valuable medicine. It grows
in a hedge which borders the road leading from Newton-
stewart to Wigton. The Scrophularineae and Labiatae demand
no special notice. But the Lentibulariae must be mentioned, for
the sake of the pretty, curious, and rare Pinguicula lusitanica
(Portugal butterwort,) a few plants of which may be found in a
single spot within the parish of Wigton, near the south-western
boundary of Penninghame. The same species occurs more abun-
dantly a few miles beyond the western limits of this parish, in
Kirkowen, on the great road leading to Portpatrick. Of the Mo-
nochlamydeous plants, the most interesting orders to be found
here at the Chenopodeae and the Polygoneae. The former af-
fords us, besides the common species, the curious and useful Che-
nopodium bonus-Henricus (good Henry), which grows only on
the sides of the road which leads from the hamlet of Penning-
hame to the main road leading to Wigton. The most interesting
species of the Polygoneae is the Polygonum Bistorta (Bistort or
snake-root), which is found, not in this parish, but in Minnigaff,
on the eastern bank of the Pinkell, a little way below Cumlodum
cottage. Of the endegenous orders the most remarkable is the
Orchideae, the most frequent of which are the Orchis macula-
ta, which adorns our moist meadows with its bright spotted leaves
and its tufts of purple flowers; the Platanthera bifolia, the deli-
				   3


