
                     LAGGAN.                                 423

   It may be mentioned as an interesting circumtances, that Mrs
Grant was among the last surviving individuals, who met with the
celebrated. Dr samuel Johnson, while upon his memorable Tour
in Scotland in 1773. Mrs Grant, then a girl of eighteen, resided
at Fort-Augustus, when Dr Johnson spent of a day in visiting
and inspecting the fort. She has been heard to describe the strong
impression made upon her memory by the ponderous figure, and
peculiar costume, of the great moralist and lexicographer. *
   This lady, who resided twenty-four years in this, posses-
sed talents of a very high order, sanctified by sincere, fervent, un-
obtrusive piety, producing a enlarged benevolence to her fellow-
creatures.
   Parochial Registers.-The first entry of baptism in our register
is dated 1775; and the first of marriege, five years later. The
register has not been always very regularly kept: and the burials
have not been recorded.
   Historical Notices.-There is a tradition that, in ancient times,
the Kings of Scotland were often wont to come, upon hunting excur-
sions, to the side of Lochlaggan, and that one, if not  more, of the
Kings Fergus was buried there. The place is still called Ardveirge,
of the Aird (height) of Fergus. About three years ago, the Mar-
quess of Abercorn commenced building a shooting-lodge there.
A piece of ground was trenched for a garden, in the immidiate
vicinity of the grave, and a silver coin about the size of a sixpence
was found by the trenchers. This coin is of a very ancient date,
-Henry II. There are two small island in Lochlaggan, nearly
abreast of Ardveirge, which are termed Eilean an Righ (King's
Island), and Eilean nan Con (Dog's Island.) Is is supposed that,
in the last-mentioned place, the dogs were tied or secured after
the chase.
   When the Rebellion of 1745 broke out, the dilatory function-
aries of Government sent Sir John Cope, with about 1400 men, to
check the career of the Pretender, and tn scatter his daring follow-
ers. Sir John accordingly set off upon his expedition, and appeared
to be so observant of the puncilios of military etiquette in his move-
ments, that if the Highlanders had been led by Montrose or Dundee.

<FOOTNOTE>4. "Essays on the Sipertitions of the Highlanders of Scotland," with transla-
tions from Gaelic poems. In two volumes, published in London in 1811.
   5. "Eighteen Hundred and Thirteen,"-a poem descriptive of remarkable public
events at home abroad during that year. One volume, published in London in
1814.
   A short Memoir of Mrs Grant appeared in the Edinburgh Evening Courant, of
the 22d November 1838, from which these remarks have been chiefly abridged.


