
234                           LANARKSHIRE.

of late years has greatly increased in number, respectability of cha-
racter, and worldly estate, which, when taken in connection with
other circumstances, have tended greatly to the increase of reli-
gion, morality, and active benevolence. The spirit which actuates
the benevolence of Glasgow is ever present in times of difficulty.
The knowledge of this important fact should tend greatly to pre-
vent discontent in the minds of the indigent, and mitigate their
sufferings in times of distress.
	Since the commencement of the present century, Glasgow has
greatly increased in scientific knowledge, and many of her citizens
have rendered essential service to their country.
	The fourth meeting of the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, held in Edinburgh from the 8th to the 15th Sep-
tember 1834, consisted of a number of persons, from all countries,
many of them the most distinguished in Europe for scientific ac-
quirements. While a considerable number of the citizens of Glas-
gow were admitted members of the Association, the following were
elected office-bearers, viz. Secretary to the Chemistry and Mi-
neralogy Section, Thomas Thomson, M. D., F. R. S., Professor
of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow.--Members of Commit-
tee, Charles Macintosh, F. R. S. and Charles Tennant, M. H. S. S.
--Member of Committee in the Natural History Section, Wil-
liam Jackson Hooker, LL. D., F. R. S., Professor of Botany in
the University of Glasgow.--Secretary to the Statistical Section,
James Cleland, LL. D.

	The following very valuable paper, drawn up by Principal Mac-
farlan, came too late to be inserted in its proper place in this article:
and though a very small part of it has been anticipated, our readers
may be gratified to receive it entire.
	"The origin of the name Glasgow is like that of most other
place, involved in uncertainty, and it would be useless to repeat
the fantastic conjectures of antiquarians and etymologists, with re-
gard to its meaning. Perhaps the most probable conjecture is that
which derives it from the level green on the banks of the river,
for nany ages its greatest ornament. Glas-achadh in Gaelic, pro-
nounced Glassaugh, or with a slight vocal sound at the termina-
tion Glassaugh, signifies the green field, or alluvial plain, and is
strictly descriptive of the spot in question. The name of the town,
as ordinarily pronounced by highlanders, corresponds closely to
				3


