

                              CAPUTH.                            675

     on the south extremity, overlooking the Tay, are the distinct re-
     mains of what is supposed originally to have been a Pictish fort,
     and latterly a Roman encampment.  It is evident that it must
     have been a place of great strength, giving the command of the
     whole district to the person who held it.  It is particularly de-
     scribed by Mr Pennant in his Tour.
        The following information respecting Inchtuthil is from the
     Statistical Account by Mr Innerarity in 1792: " It is a flat of
     160 Scotch acres, regularly steep on every side, and in every part
     of equal height, that is, about 60 feet above the great plain of the
     Stormont, on which it stands.  Here the Picts had a town, which
     must have been a place of great strength, and of which the ves-
     tiges may be discerned at the south-west corner of this singular
     elevation.  Boetius calls it Tuline or Tulina, and says th`t it was
     populous and well fortified, but deserted and burned bv the Picts,
     on the approach of the Romans under Agricola.  He adds, (as
     translated by Holinsbed,) " the Scottishmen in our time call the
     place Inchtuthil" The Romans also availed themselves of this
     situation.  Their camp stood on the north-east border, and com-
     manded an extensive view of the plain.  It is 500 yards square;
     the walls to a considerable height were strongly built, 9 1/2 feet
     thick, with stones brougbt from a quarry two miles distant ; the
     stones have been gradually removed, and the walls are now almost
     levelled by the plough.  In the course of ploughing, fragments
     of weapons and some entire utensils, were formerly found.  There
     are two tumuli, or barrows, and a redoubt, on the south-east side
     of the camp.  A few years ago, the largest of these barrows was
     opened, and consisted of a rich black mould, possibly composed
     of the ashes of the funeral pyres that had been consumed there.
     It ir now distinguished by a clump of trees.  Inchtuthil is likewise
     believed to have been part of the land granted by Kenneth III.
     (who began his reign, in 977,) to Hay, for his bravery in the
     battle of Luncarty ; and his descendants possessed it till the be-
     ginning of the rdventeenth century.  William, Fifth Earl of Er-
     rol (who succeeded in 1506,) was in his father's lifetime designed
     William of Caputh and Master of Errol."
        Cairnmure, or the Big Carn, is about a mile and a-half north-
     east of the church, and is the largest in the country, being 456 feet
     in circumference, and 14 feet in height.  It formerly gave name                                                 ta
     to the property in that district, but its origin and use are quite
     unknown.  As some distance to the south-west, stands another,


