
414                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

given by the Reformation, followed by the gradually increasing
peace and civilization of the country, and industry of the people,
while they contributed to the progress and enlargement of other
towns, served in a great measure to counteract, in the case of Stir-
ling, what must have been otherwise felt to be a heavy loss. These
counteracting influences, however, while they prevented any con-
siderable decay, were insufficient to effect any improvement, in so
far as size and general appearance were concerned. But when the
influence of the union of the kingdoms began to be developed,
which was not, at least in this part of the country, until after the
suppression of the two rebellions in favour of the Stewart family,
and abolition of the hereditary jurisdictions belonging to the feu-
dal barons, Stirling again started forward in a course of improve-
ment, which has never been arrested, but, on the contrary, appears
to be becoming more and more distinguished, and to keep pace
with the general progress of the country.  Since that time, it has
been greatly extended; and a rapid advance has been made in
many particulars, which mark the growing prosperity and comfort
of the community.  During this interval, the population has more
than doubled. New and handsome streets have been built.  Old
houses have been replaced by new, in many instances; in others,
have been modernized and beautified.  Many excellent dwelling-
houses and splendid shops, and elegant suburban villas, give an
air of wealth and comfort; the streets have been lighted with gas
of first-rate-quality; and the municipal rulers have, within the last
seven years, by improving the streets, immensely added to the
beauty of the town, and to the safety and accommodation of the
inhabitants, and rendered it greatly more attractive to the nume-
rous strangers who visit it for business health, or amusement-
One of the most pleasing and beautiful ornaments of the town,
however, not only contributing to its embellishment, but providing
for the healthful recreation of thew inhabitants, and enabling them
to contemplate the enchanting prospects by which it is surrounded,
the "Back Walk," is of older date, although belonging to the
modern history of the place.  It was begun in 1723 by Mr Ed-
monstone of Cambus Wallace, and from time to time extended,
until completed, towards the end bf the last century.  Commencing
in the south-east part of the town on the outside of the hill, it
gradually rises through a grove of tall and luxuriant trees, and then
by, the naked and rocky edge of the hill, till it attains near to its
summit under the castle, and proceeding to skirt the lofty emi-



