
     Statistical Account

failing panegyrists of the times that are elapsed.  Mr. Hume,
and the Abbe du Bois, are of a different opinion, and assert,
that in ancient times, the seasons were colder than at present,
but the facts adduced by these respectable writers are too
vague and remote to overthrow the experience of feeling*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*William the Norman, after the conquest of England, surveyed that coun-
try, and committed the admeasurement to Doomsday Book, designed to be a
permanent record of the nature and value of the soil; that gradation of offices,
and those institutions which he embraced in his political scheme.  The imita-
tion of a model that might be so conducive to promote the welfare of the great
body of the people employed in agriculture, should perhaps, with that varia-
tion required by circumstances, be in some measure adopted by all the proprie-
tors in Scotland.  It is well known that the value of land must rise or fall, ac-
cording to the flourishing or declining condition of the state.  Reason dictates
that it is by this criterion the rents of a landlord ought to be regulated. When
at a certain term lands are to be let, and exposed, as it were to a public sale,
the highest biddder to have the preference, it must occur, that in such a colli-
sion of passions, and jarring interests, as must necessarily upon those occa-
sions, the desperate and unprincipled will frequently be preferred to the honest
and industrious; besides that, the rents of some farms will be low and mode-
rate, while that of others will be high and exorbitant.  To prevent, therefore,
this inequality, and to extend distributive justice to every individual, proprie-
tors should not only survey their properties, but also affix a value to the farms,
according to the value of the productions at the time, and the probable conti-
nuance of that value.  Every circumstance of convenience and inconvenience,
whether with regard to fuel, the nature of the soil, and the condition of the
farm, should likewise be taken under consideration, and a rent proportionate
affixed.  Judicious men acquainted with the place, and obliged, by proper
sanctions, to observe a strict impartiality, would perhaps be the most proper to
accomplish such a desirable object.  These hints may appear chimeral, but there
would be no harm in the experiment; and, if practicable, might prove highly
advantageous, both to the proprietor and tenant, by promoting their reciprocal
interests.  Such a plan, without having recourse to the levelling principle of
modern innovations, might have a happy tendency in diffusing the comforts of
life more equally, and at the same time, maintain that distinction of ranks so
necessary to the existence of society.


