

20                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

  Soil.-The soil consists of diluvial deposit, in general dry with
a gravelly bottom; but in some places on the banks of the Clyde,
especially at the part farthest down the river, it is fine deep loam
with clay bottom. The rising grounds are so situated as to show
that the deluge which caused their formation must have been
from north-west to south-east.
  Mines.-There are mines of coal and lime in the neighbourhood
of Duntocher. The shafts are from 120 to 200 feet deep. These
mines contain ironstone, limestone, coal, and pyrites. The ironstone
varies in thickness. The limestone and coal are regular; the coal
is about 4 1/2 to 5 feet thick, and the limestone, which lies immediate-
ly above it, is aboutthe same. It is expected that seams of coal
will be found lower down, but no search has been hitherto made
for them. The coal, in burning, cakes like the Newcastle coal.
  Zoology.-The game in the parish are hares, pheasants, par-
tridges, red grouse and black grouse. Besides these, there are
roe-deer in Lord Blantyre's woods on the hills. There are foxes,
too, which sometimes do considerable damage on the sheep farms.
  The parish is not remarkable for breeding any species of cattle.
  Botany.-There are no rare plants. The soil is congenial to
all sorts of forest and fruit trees. Oaks, ashes, elms, beeches,
planes, limes, and fir-trees, of various kinds are growing, both in
the upper and lower parts, with great luxuriance. Many of them
are of a great size, and must be of a great age, and are still fresh
and vigorous.  Fruit trees also grow well. They have not been
much cultivated, but, from the appearance of those which have
been planted, there seems to be nothing in the soil or subsoil to
prevent them from growing to any size, and bearing fruit to any
age to which fruit trees in this country can attain.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Antiquities.-It is well known that the Roman wall between the
Forth and Clyde terminated in this parish. It was begun by Agri-
cola, and completed by Antoninus Pius, and is generally called
Graham's dike, from a tradition that a Scottish varrior of this
name first broke over it. All vestiges of the wall within the parish
have disappeared; but the fossa which ran parallel to it may still
be traced in several places, particularly on the farm of Carleith,
and in a field near the Cleddin burn. The very accurate survey
made by General Roy in 1755, and published by the Antiquarian
Society in 1793; and the earlier but careful remarks of Gordon,
Stukely, Horsley, and Maitland, enable the antiquary to trace the


