
118                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

relics of the dead they contained had become as the dust that en-
closed them.
   On the farm of Marson, the last ruins of what seemed to have
been some ancient chapel, were employed in completing the en-
closures of that district, regarding which some interesting tradi-
tions were in circulation among the people; very much resembling
those of the crusade adventures. In the contiguous farm of Mem-
big, there is a deeply affecting spot by a beautifully sequestered lit-
tle bay overhung with lofty trees, which cannot be omitted, when not-
ing the few antiquities, if they can be so called, which the ''isle"
contains. There is indeed nothing seen there monumental of the
doings or sufferings of man; only the green sward meets the eye,
and no relics of any former age ; but who can look on it without
emotion? it is the traditionary burial place of unchristened infants,
during the iron tyranny of the papal delusion. A sweetly solemn
seclusion, as if a dark and severe superstition, half relenting its own
uncharitableness, and yielding to a certain compunctious tender-
ness of feeling, had sought for the loveliest spot in this beautiful
"isle," for the repose of those babes whose dust it had harshly
doomed to exile from the sepulchre of their fathers.
   Modern Buildings.--After the destruction of the old castle, the
late Duke of Argyle founded another mansion in 1803, not on the
old site, but retiring from the shore more towards the bosom of
the Bay of Campsail. It is from a splendid design by J. Bononi
of London, in Romanesque, or rather modern Italian style of archi-
tecture. The general effect is exceedingly graceful and elegant.
It has two principal fronts, to the north and to the South. The
former is adorned with a magnificent portico, approximating to the
Roman Ionic, and projecting so far as to admit of a carriage-way
being within it. A circular tower rises from the centre of the
building, surrounded by a balustrade at the summit, from which
there is one of the most splendid panoramas that can possibly be
conceived.
   The situation, although in some respects inferior to that of the
old castle, and not perhaps the best that might have been other-
wise selected on the grounds, is happy in many respects; and the
castle itself, with its magnificent environs of woods, and waters,
and mountains, contains, in rich variety and profusion such ele-
ments of beauty and sublimity, as those who are strangers to the
shores of the Gareloch may find it exceeding difficult to see any
where else.


