
                              MINTO.                           373

-both of them in a style of art, of which, in Scotland, there are as
yet but few examples in works of the same kind.
   Heritors.-There are in the parish four heritors,-the Duke of
Buccleuch; Earl of  Minto; Archibald Dickson, Esq. of Has-
sendean-burn; William Scott, Esq. of Teviotbank; one non-re-
sident, one constantly resident, and two occasionally so.
    Parochial Register.-The date of the earliest entry in the
parochial register, is 1703. During last century, entries were
made with more regularity than has since been observed.  No re-
gister is kept of deaths. Marriages, as ascertained from the pro-
clamations, may be stated at 5 yearly.

                      III.-POPULATION.
   The only village, Minto, according to the census of 1831, con-
tains 108 inhabitants, the other parts of the parish, 373,-making
together a population of 481; but in 1828, as ascertained by the
writer, it amounted to 530.  In 1831, the number of families was
95, with 85 inhabited houses.
  The population is, of late, rather on the decrease, partly from the
enlargement and junction of farms, and the giving up of the nur-
series at Hassendean-burn, which, after having been established
upwards of a century, have recently been removed to Hawick.
  Character of the People.-The people generally are industrious
and well-conditioned; individuals, from time to time, rising in their
station of life, or enabling their children to do so, by giving them
the benefit of a higher education.  Chiefly from the improvements
in this particular, the language within the last forty years has
undergone a considerable change. It is not improbable, that, ere
long, the ancient dialect of the district, which has several interest-
ing peculiarities, may become, in a great measure, extinct.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture .-The number of acres, standard imperial measure,
cultivated or occasionally in pasture, may be computed at 3205;
there are 1458 in pasture.  Of this, little or none could with ad-
vantage be taken into cultivation, while some land, which was at
one time ploughed, is now suffered to lie permanently in grass.
The improved system of husbandry, and of the rotation of crops,
is everywhere in use; bone dust has, of late years, been employed
in the growing of turnips; and increasing attention is paid to the
draining of the land, which, from the nature of the soil, is produc-
tive of the greatest benefit.
  Live-Stock.-The short-born cattle, and the Cheviot Lei-


