
			PARISH OF MARKINCH.

		PRESBYTERY OF KIRKALDY, SYNOD OF FIFE.

		  THE REV. J. SIEVERIGHT, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries.-MARKINCH is bounded on the north, by the pa-
rishes of Falkland and Kettle; on the South, by Dysart and
Wemyss; and on the east, by Kennoway and Leven. The ge-
neral form of the parish is quadrilateral, the lines of boundary
being pretty regular, except on the eastern side, which is deeply
indented by the parish of Kennoway.
   Name.-The church and village of Markinch are situated on
the summit and declivity of a gentle eminence, which, at a remote
period, has, doubtless, been surrounded by water, but in more re-
cent times, by a deep morass, which, though no drained, and in
many parts covered with buildings, may still be distinctly traced
throughout its original extent. If it is considered then,- that, at
the commencement of the present era, the whole country was co-
vered with a dense and impenetrable forest,-the  appropriateness
of the name will be sufficiently apparent, Mark or Mark, in the
language of Scandinavia, signifying a forest, and Ynys or Insch, in
ancient Celtic, an island-hence the Celto-Pictish name Markinch
or  "Island of the Forest."
   Within the insular limits we have thus described, are included
the knoll or eminence on which the church stands, towards the
south; and Markinch hill, towards the north;-the two being con-
nected by a sloping ridge, along the summit and sides of which, the
primitive habitations were necessarily constructed; but since ther

<FOOTNOTE>There has lately been published a well executed map of the prish by Mr James
Frazer, land-surveyor in Markinch.
          The more ancient orthography is Markinch. In West Goth, Marko signifies
a limit or boundary--the Anglo-Saxon, Mearc, the same,-thus Mearc-land, confi
nium, fines terrae-but both, we apprehend, are derived from Mark, sylva as the ra-
dical word-forests in ancient times often forming the principal boundaries between
different countries and states, and their minor territorial subdivisions. This is one of the
few words, which, with little variation in sound or orthography, are found in most
languages, ancient and modern. West. Goth. Mark, Marke, sylva, nota, limez.Fin.
Merki; Ang. Sax. Mearc; Isl. Mark, M"rk; Ger. Marck; Engl. Mark; Belg.
Maerk; Welsh, Marc; Armor. Marc; Fr. Marque; Sp. and Ital. Marca; Pers.
Marz.


