
                                       METHVEN.                       157

         nature ought to be founded, this society, like all others of the
         same kind, had long to grope its way in uncertainty, and from
         time to time to vary and adjust its rates of contributions and allow-
         ances, according as the funds were supposed to be adequate to the
         purposes contemplated or not.  This state of ignorance was evi-
         dently the true cause, both then and afterwards, of the almost uni-
         versal failure of Friendly Societies.  But by the caution and fore-
         sight of some of its leading members, this Society was safely guid-
         ed through those difficulties which proved so fatal to others, and
         was even comparatively in a prosperous state in the year 1824,
         when the Report of the Highland Society of Scotland upon Be-
         nefit or Friendly Societies was published.
           For this important production, the public owe a deep debt of
         gratitude to Charles Oliphant, Esq.  W. S.
           Upon the appearance of the Highland Society's Report, the
         members of this society, generally, eagerly availed themselves of
         the information it afforded, and showed a resolution, in spite of every
         difficulty, to reduce to practice, in their own case, the principles
         therein expounded.  They, therefore, immediately set about re-
         modelling the Methven Friendly Society, in strict conformity to
         the data contained in the Report of the Highland Society, and for
         this purpose they appointed a large committee of their number, to
         whom, in terms of the Friendly Society Act of 1802, they dele-
         gated all the power and authority the society itself possessed, to
         alter, to amend, and to enlarge its laws, its principles, and its ob-
         jects.
           The society accordingly, on the 22d May 1826, adopted a new
         constitution, principally derived from, and entirely founded upon,
         the Highland Society's Report, embracing the three great schemes
         therein exhibited, namely, 1st, For affording weekly payments
         in money during sickness, until the member attahns the seventieth
         year of his age.  2d, For affording annuities to members for life
         after the sixtieth, sixty-fifth, or seventieth year of their age, and
         also for affording, at any age, single annuities, i. e. an annuity for
         the life of one person.  And, 3d, For a funeral allowance, or a sum
         payable at death.
           With regard to the first scheme, the member who subscribes
         for an allowance in sickness must, at the same time, contribute
         also for an annuity to commence with the seventy-first year of his
         age, if he lives so long, when the sickness allowance  terminates,
         and the contributions for both cease; and the relation which these


