
                           ABERLADY.                        255

is more generally diffused amongst them than the inhabitants of
towns are willing to imagine; and there seems to be no good
ground for believing, that they have fallen in any degree from the
respectability of their fathers. Wages in this parish and district
have been for several years past on a very low scale,-partly from
the influx of Irish labourers in summer and harvest,-and partly
from the depressed condition of agricultural affairs; and it is much
to be wished, that labour ere long may receive a more abundant
reward. The houses, too, allotted to the farm-servants, are fre-
quently not so good as might be reasonably expected; and hither-
to there has in this respect been little of that improvement which
unquestionably, on the whole, characterizes the present age. There
is at this date some tendency towards a better state of things; and
ground is given to hope, that the cottages on every farm will,
at no very distant period, have two apartments instead of one,-that
they will be better lighted,-better protected against cold and
damp than, generally speaking, they now are, and on the whole,
built with more regard to conveniency and comfort. By such al-
terations, it cannot be doubted, that the health and the habits of
the labourer and his family would be improved; and it seems to be
equally certain, that the additional expense to the landlord and far-
mer would be amply repaid by an increased quantity of labour wil-
lingly given, or at least, by the more cheerful perfomance of the
customary task; setting aside the delight which must spring up in
every well-constituted mind on beholding the diffusion of satisfac-
tion and enjoyment.
   During the last three years there were 3 illegitimate births in
the parish.
                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The parish may be considered as purely agricultural. Its in-
habitants have no connection with navigation. There are no fish-
eries carried on from the coast; and with the exception of a brick
and tile-work, chiefly employed in making tiles for drains, there is
nothing which can be called a manufactory. The few tradesmen
in the parish, that is, masons, carpenters, shoemakers, blacksmiths,
bakers, tailors, are employed solely in supplying the wants of their
immediate neighbours, and there is not a single weaver amongst
them. Not more than sixty years ago, there were twenty looms in
the village, regularly employed, and a considerable home manu-
facture of linen cloth; but from the progress of the cotton manu-
facture, and the application of machinery to the spinning of flax,


