

			MINNIGAFF.   				131

the arts of than their rival neighbours the Scots, which may
have arisen from their inhabiting the lower and more fertile land.
The murder-hole is also a curious tradition. It confirms me in
opinion, that our lawyers misinterpret the right meaning of the
old grants of baronial jurisdiction which usually bear the right
of pit and gallows. Our legal antiquaries hold that the pit means
the dungeon of the castle, and that the grant applies to a right
of punishment and execution; but I am pretty much convinced
that the grant refers to execution by hanging or drowing. There
seems no good reason for granting a right of mere imprisonment,
which was in fact common tn almost all the king's vassals, whether
possessing the higher power of capital execution or not.'
	"The dry summer of 1819 exposed to view many oaken trunks,
of immense magnitude, lying in the bed of the water of Cree, near
Machermore. Mr Newall, the farmer there, collected all the
empty casks he could find in the neighbourhood, bunged them up,
and fastened them by ropes to the wood in the bed of the river,
and as they rose, the casks raised the timber to which they were
affixed. In the clay which adhered to the end of one piece that
was buried in the adjoining bank at least twelve feet below the
surface, was a horn 34 inches in length, 12 inches round the top,
immediately below which it spread into three antlers, each five
inches long.
	"Although aware that to collect specimens of natural history was
somewhat out of the direct line of Sir Walter's pursuits, I sent
him the horn, with some human bones of extraordinary dimen-
sions found at the same place. the great size of the fossil, and
the particulars of its discovery, however, make it appear valuable
to him. In a letter dated Edinburgh, 27th January 1820, he
says, 'I showed the curious fossil horn to our Professor of Na-
tural History. He pronounces it a deer horn, but a very fine
specimen of the largest possible size.'
	"There are several very remarkable cairns in the parish of
Minnigaff. That of Drtmlawhinnie, on the moor of Barcly, is
891 feet in circumference. The Boss Cairns, on the moor of
Dranandow, appears to have been equally large; but a consider-
able part of it has been carried away to make enelosures in the
neighnourhood, by which a singular cavity has been laid open.
It is eight feet long, four feet wide, and three feet high, running
from east to west, and is intersected by another of equal dimen-
sions, running south and north. The stones in the middle of this




