
	 			GARVOCK.                    29

sandstone seem to run the whole length of the parish;-the di-
rection south-west and dip north-west at various angles from near-
ly a horizontal position to 20&deg;. The strata are of various thick-
ness to upwards of twenty feet; and alternate, when seen near the
surface, with puddingstotie or conglomerate. This sandstone,
where most uniform in structure, often contains small rounded
blocks of foreign rocks, as granite, jasper, &c. In some places,
the strata near the surface are soft, and when exposed to the air
soon moulder into sand; but where in contact with conglomerate,
they are very hard. Over the surface of these rocks, where they
present an upright face, is seen a covering of scurdy or unstratified
trap, which, by long exposure to the air, has a friable appearance.
The highest points in the parish are generally covered with this.
In the valleys, strata of hard gravel are found of great thickness.
Over almost the whole parish, are found water-worn or rolled blocks
of granite, quartz, jasper, &c. in such abundance, as that when a
few inches of the surface are removed for the first time, the ground
seems actually paved with them. Boulder stones of granite or
gnehss, &c. occur in several places, but none above three feet in dia-
meter. Masses of mica slate, containing garnets, are met with,
but rarely. There is a considerable bed of limestone in the south-
west corner of the parish, in the steep face of the Hill of Gar-
vock, which seems to run into the parish of Marykirk, where it
again appears at a short distance, and just opposite. The part in
this parish was wrought some years ago; but, on account of the
steep and difficult access, and the stone being found to contain a
considerable quantity of sand, it has been discontinued. A quarry
of excellent building red sandstone has been occasionally wrought
in the north-east end of the parish, in tbe Den of Davo; and a
stratum equally good, if not superior, was discovered about four
years ago near the top and centre of the Hill of Garvock, but
being found only about five feet in thickness, and dipping imme-
diately under the hill, it has for some time been discontinued, on
account of the expense in tirring.
        Peat-Moss.-In this parish, there bad formerly been several
mosses, from which peats and sods had been cut; and several
tenants from neighbouring parishes had a right, from their pro-
prietor being an heritor of Garvock, of coming for peats and sods.
These are now almost all entirely exhausted except one, and even
on it, the plnufh has made, and is still making, great encroach-
ments. Some of the others are already converted into corn-land,


