
				BORTHWICK				       177

namented grounds-but the site being in the course of the stream
which posses behind the mansion house, has been found insufficient
to resist the mass of water which occasionally pours from the
streamlets of the moorland--and which has repeatedly borne all
before it--and descended through the neighbouring valley, not
without risk of considerable damage and danger to the inhabitants.
It is not likely that the attempt to construct a pond will be repeat-
ed, nor is it desirable, though a great additional beauty to the
grounds has thus been rendered impossible to be realized.
   Currie House formerly stood on a piece of rising ground over-
looking the old church and valley of Borthwick--and having an ex-
tensive view of the distant landscape and of the Pentland hills. It
was surrounded by some old and valuable trees, and had an avenue
leading to the garden, which lies on the haugh adjoining the stream
which flows through the valley. The house was taken down about
thirty years since--and a great part of the old wood was cut about
the same time. The proprietor then took up his residence in what
was originally a much smaller house upon his property, and which
is said to have been, in former times, an inn for the accommoda-
tion of persons, who, in travelling to the south, thought proper to
halt for a short time to view the ruins of the castle, and the beau-
ties of the adjoining valley. The house was improved by some ex-
cellent additions, and when seen from the high road or from any of
the neighbouring points, embosomed as it seems to be amidst its
sheltering woods, and reposing in the shadow of the ancient castle,
it has a pleasing aspect of rural retreat and comfort. A consider-
able quantity of young wood has been planted--and the garden,
which is of excellent soil, and beautifully situated, may be expect-
ed eventually to become one of the chief ornaments of the vicinity.
   But the most attractive spot belonging to this property is un-
questionably the precipitous and richly wooded piece of scenery
known by the name of Currie wood. It is not generally known even
to persons who have visited the neighbourhood for the purpose of
becoming acquainted with its beauties, and who commonly (unreadable)
EDINBURGH.				M


