
			WEST KILBRIDE.		               247

ly to the summit of the precipice, and in it is a large opening or
fissure, called the "cove," long tenanted by the usual creations of
popular fancy,--"fairies and the elfin train." Slight veins of dif-
ferents kinds of spar occur, and in the trap formations rock crystals
have been found; but neither coal nor any metallic ore of any
value have ever been met with. As stated in the former account,
there is a quarry of excellent millstone, situated on Kame hill.
These are formed from a stratum of breccia--white sandstone, mi-
nutely intermixed with quartz,--which occurs near the summit of
the hill, immediately the trap formation before alluded to.
The number of millstones annually produced is about thirty. They
are esteemed of excellent quality, are taken to a great distance at
home, and some few are exported.
	Soil.--Generally, the soil of parish may be divided into two
classes: that which lies on the original formations of the more ele-
vated parts, and secondly, that which covers the alluvial plains by
the coast side, and in the valley bottoms. Of the first, which may
comprehend nearly four-fifths of the whole, a considerable part
even within the arable range consists of poor spongy moorish land,
thin, cold, and ungenial, incumbent on a coarse tilly and imper-
portions of very kindly land, of the loamy and calcareous species,
chiefly around the bases of the hills and rising grounds. Part of
the alluvial division is of a deep dark mould of the finest quality,
but still a very large propotion degenerates into a poor hungry
corroding gravel, whilst a narrow stripe by the sea side consists of
arid burning sand. A considerable extent of moss or peat bogs
is interspersed in the moorish parts; and in the valley behind Ard-
neill hills, near the coast, there is a fine field of this sort, extend-
ing in all to perhaps 150 acres, which has recently been advanta-
geously reclaimed and cultivated.
	Wherever the sandstone formation prevails, the hills are general-
ly covered with heath, of which there are several varieties. On
those hills, composed of whin rock, and on the dry gravelly soils
by the coast side, furze greatly predominates, with a little broom;
whilst the arable fields in these quarters suffer much from what is
termed here the runch--Raphanum raphanistrum.
	Zoology.--From the names of several places, such as Wildcat-
road and Catcraigs, the native cat would seem at some time to
have been a common inhabitant of this neighbourhood. But the


