
     Statistical Account

If these cairns are sepulchral monuments, as by the disco-
very of urns they unquestionably are, it seems difficult not
to be convinced, that the space between the mouths of the
Ness and the Beauly, now covered by the Beauly frith,
was dry land, and that the sea gained upon it, after these
monuments were erected*.  The Beauly frith is six miles
in length, and two in breadth.  There was, a few years ago
at Kilvean, a great number of small cairns overgrown with
heath.  They occupied about the space of an acre, on a
pretty extensive plain, and were inclosed by a ditch of an
orbicular form+.

   Places of Defence.-Oliver Cromwell's fort was mention-
ed above, soon after the Restoration it was demolished, and
every material of any value sold to the inhabitants of In-
verness.  Nothing remains of this citadel besides the inte-
rior work of the ramparts, which form a regular pentagon,
surrounded on four sides by a ditch, and by the river on
the fifth, and inclosing a superficies of precisely 4 acres.
When the sea flows, the ditch is filled with water.  The
castle near the river, on the western extremity of the hill

<FOOTNOTE>

*Lowthorp's abridg, Vol. iii. Edit. 3 d p 538.

+These cairns in the course of the proprietors improvements were re-
moved, but by ignorant persons who wrought by the piece, and had nei-
ther leisure nor curiosity for observation There are many monuments of
this kind still to be seen in the Highlands of Scotland; several cairns
from time to time were examined and urns sound.  The large cairns
seem to have been the burying places of the chiefs and heads of families,
and the small cairns inclosed as above, the burying places of the common
people.  It appears, that the raising of cairns for sepulchral monuments
in honour of distinguished personages did not cease with the practice
of burning the dead in this country.  There is a very large cairn near
the river at the foot of a hill, called Torvean.  It some years ago was
partly removed, a coffin was found composed of six thick flags.  This is
supposed to be the dormitory of Bean, a saint of the Culdee order, from
whom the place and hill derive their names.


