
                ARDNAMURCHAN.                            133

but in every case, at least for the last ten years, have been im-
ported from the great towns of the south, generally by home sick
convalescent patients, to whom the steamers now afford every fa-
cility to return to their homes.  Experience of their fatal
has happily taught the people such caution, that these diseases
now seldom spread beyond the family afilicted.  Upon the whole,
the climate with all its inconveniences, is very healthy.
   Geology.-So far as the writer can ascertain, there has been no geo-
logical survey of the parish.  About ten miles of Ardnamurchan,
east from the headland or point, appears to be of the trap series;
in this it accords with the opposite coast of Morvern, and that of
Mull on the sound of that island.  The prevailing rocks are whin-
stone.
   With these are interspersed extensive beds of limestone of a
fine-grained slaty rock, of light greyish blue colour, and some hard
sandstone.  The west face of the headland is in many parts pene-
trated by numberless whin dikes, or veins of basalt, intersecting
each other in all directions, of one striking instance of which, a
correct plate is given in Dr Macculloch's third volume on the He-
brides.  The rock, however, is not limestone, as there represented,
but hard sandstone of a similar colour.  Organic remains in the
fossil state are contained in great quantities in a rock at the point
of Ormsaig Big, on the south side of this headland.  In a neigh-
bouring bill, pitchstone is found, and glance coal in the hill of
Bensheand.  Iron and copper ores are said in Sir Alexander Mur-
ray's Survey, to exist in the same neighbourhood.  The founda-
tion of the older or primitive rocks, on which the foundations above-
mentioned rest, protrude in many instances on the sea shores, and
are distinctly traceable on the north coast especially, for miles,
from a place not far from the point.  To this series belongs the
whole wide extent of the parish, with the exception, perhaps, of a
few small superincumbent masses of crumbling rock near Lochna-
keaul, the country being composed of gneiss, mica-slate, a fine-
grained kind of the latter, which quarries into broad, tolerably
smooth flags, and at Strontian of granite.  Here, as is well
known, lead ore abounds, as well as Strontium, so named on
account of its being there first discovered.  Traces of lead
ore are also found in the hills of Dallella, and Lachans in Moi-
dart.
   Soils.-These where arable, with the exception of some parts of


