
                            BANFF.                            43

of trade. During the year 1834, 440 head of live-cattle were sent
to London by sea, besides 911 pigs, and 156 sheep and lambs.
   The exportation of grain from this port has increased in a very
great degree during the last twenty years. In the course of the
year 1834, 29,790 quarters of oats were shipped at Banff, all, with
a trifling exception, for London; * 1174 quarters of wheat, and
976 quarters of barley and bear, mostly for Leith and London;
also a small quantity of oatmeal, pease, and potatoes. 194 bags
of potato flour were shipped for Leith.
   Very few foreign vessels land at Banff harbour, though many
come into neighbouring ports with in the range of the custom-house
of Banff. These are principally from Norway, with birch timber
for herring barrels.
   In the year 1813 a Greenland whale fishing company was form-
ed, and two vessels fitted out. In the course of a year or two, how-
ever, one of the vessels was wrecked in a storm soon after going
out of the harbour; the insurance was only recovered after a liti-
gation; and as, besides this discouragement, the vessels had been
unlucky in their fishings, and the price of oil was falling, the con-
cern was abandoned at a very serious loss to the partners.
   Banff is the principal station of a party of the coast guard. The
commander's district extends from Speymouth to Rattrayhead.
Their watch-house is at the battery.
   Manufactures.-There are premises on the high ground above
the harbour, fitted, both by extent and supply of water, for carry-
ing on the brewing trade on a large scale. Of late, however, the
business has been little farther extended than to supply home con-
sumption. It is stated that the demand for malt liquor is immense-
ly reduced by the increased distillation of spirits. The brewery
employs 9 or 10 persons.
   The foundery was established about nine years ago by Messrs
Fraser. They execute every species of cast metal work, machi-
nery, grates, ploughshares, &c. &c. and to a very considerable ex-
tent. A blast fanners attached to the furnace is driven, and me-
chanical power supplied for all departments of the work, by a
steam engine of six horse power, constructed, on the high pressure

<FOOTNOTE>In the list of places in the whOle kingdom supplying the London market with
grain, Banff ranks among the highest as regards amount; but this is taking in the
importations from all the ports from Fraserburgh to Garmouth, inclusive, vessels
from which clear out at the custom-house of Banff. The total quantity of grain ex-
ported from Banff (including these other ports) in 1834, was 192,377 quarters of
grain, and 660 tons of meal; in 1835, 94,067 quarters of grain, 362 tons of meal.


