
154                       ARGYLESHIRE.

ment at home, is absolutely necessary.  Much may also be done
by leases, which will insure to enterprise and industry the fruits
of exertion ; and the improvement of stock by premiums and other-
wise.  Neither, with the view simply to industrial improvement,
can more powerful remedies be applied than the increase of the
means of religious instruction and education.
   Quarries and Mines.-The only quarries worked are those of
Laga and Strontian.  From the former, a fine micacious rock,
very abundant in the parish, has been carried by sea fully fifty
miles' distance, to erect piers at Corran ferry on the Linne Hiloch ;
and from the latter, excellent granite, which has long been used
by Lhe proprietor, has been conveyed to erect the mansion-house
of Mr M'Lean of Coll, near Tobermory, twenty miles distant.
The lead mines of Strontian, already adverted to, were let previ-
ous to 1722 to the Duke of Norfolk and Co.  About this time
they were transferred to the York Building Company, and have
been worked ever since until the conclusion of the last war, when,
either owing to the fall of the price of lead, or, as some say, the
withdrawal from business of the members of the Company which
then held them, the work was discontinued.  Since then, the
miners have been occasionally set at work by the proprietor, but
chiefly with a view to their own subsistence.  In 1836, they were
again let, and operations seemed for some time to be carried on
with spirit; but, either from want of capital on the part of the
lessee, or the unproductiveness of the mines, the attempt miscar-
ried.  The rent paid before the termination of the war was one-
eighth of the produce, which paid the proprietor L. 1000 to L. 1500
per annum.
   Fisheries.-The only salmon fishing, worth notice is that of the
river Shiel, belonging to Sir James Milles Riddell and Alexander
MacDonald, Esq. of Lochshiel, whose properties the river divides.
The annual rent is L. 150. Loch Sunart once abounded with
berring, but for twenty years back, few have been caught there.
In Loch-nan-Uamh in Arasaig, and Loch Moidart, considerable
quantities of that fish have been netted of late years.  The fish-
eries of cod and ling, and other fishes caught by the hook, on the
north coasts of the parish, promise, at some future period, to prove
a plentiful source of industry.  They are, however, at present
merely in their infancy as branches of traffic, though considerable
Quantities of such fishes are obtained by the inhabitants as food
for their families.


