
                     DURNESS.                                   83

is mountainous; and its surface is naturally divided into three parts,
viz. 1st, the Parf district, or that which lies betwixt the Atlantic and
the Kyle of Durness. 2d, Durness, properly so called, including
all between the Kyle of Durness and Loch Eriboll. 3d, West-
moin, which extends frorn Locli Eriboll to the middle of the morass
below Loch Hope, commonly called tile, Moin.
  Mountain Ranges.-In the Parf division, comprehending a surface
of from 60 to 80 square nilles, there, are several mountain
ranges from 1500 to near 2500 feet in height, from Screbbisbhcinn
on the north, to Fairemheall on the south. Fairbheinn has a
conical shape, and appears isolated from these and tile other ranges
of Creigriabhach and Bendearg, which have a S. W. direction,
gradually diminishing to the Western Ocean.
   In the second division, the mountains are, Ceannabinn, Meall-
meadhonoch, Ben Spionnadh, * and Crainstackie, which take a
S.W. direction, and the mountains of Foinnebleinn and Meallhorn,
which take a S. E. direction. This division contains an area of
about 80 square miles.
  The third, or Westmoin division, having a surface of about 100
contains several ranges of high and precipitous hills
on the cast side of Loch Eriboll, and clustered in various shapes
and directions betwixt Strathmore and Strathbeg. In this division
also is the lofty Ben Hope, 3150 feet above the level of the sea;
it extends ill a S. W. and S. direction along the narrow vale of
Strathmore. The view of Ben Hope from the west has been always
admired by travellers, as perhaps the finest of its kind in the
kingdom. The best view is at the inn of Cassildubh, near the
upper end of Loch Hope. As there is no tableland, it rises within
a few feet froin the level of the sea, in abrupt and towering mag-
nificence. The mind is filled with awe at the grandeur and sublimity
of the scene, and tile eve is overcome with beholding the
mountain as a whole,-except when occasionally relieved bv viewing
the trees of varied hue that diversify the scene, and adorn its base
and its dark-blue terraces. Here is often seen the eagle soaring
aloft; and amidst its deep ravines, the red-deer and roe, pasturing
in Security, as if defying the stratagems of the hunter. Nor is the
view from, its summit less interesting.   On a clear day, many be seen
Lewis to the west, and the Orkney Islands to the north-east, as
well as the principal mountains of Sutherland and Caithness, white

<FOOTNOTE>2566 feet above the level of the sea by Mr Burnet's mesurement.


