
     of Dollar.

guished for their attachment to religion, liberty, and patrio-
tism.  And the present worthy head, and representative of
that noble Family, treading in the steps of his illustrious an-
cestors, signifies and adorns the exalted station which he fills.
By the lapse of time, and the violence of storms, a very con-
siderable part of Castle-Campbell is now fallen down; and
other parts of it are nodding over their foundations.  The
tower is yet nearly entire.  The ascent is by a spiral stair,
which is continued to the top.  It is visited by most strang-
ers who come here; and though it is a pretty fatiguing walk
up to it, yet when they reach the top of the tower, which is of
considerable height, they are much pleased, not only with the

     VOL. XV. Y

<FOOTNOTE>

self remained behind in Scotland, for some time; during which, he passed to
ARCHIBALD, whom he stiles "the Old Earl of ARGYLL," then residing at
the Castle of Campbell, and there he taught, or preached, certain days.  It is
not improbable, therefore, that he dispensed the Sacrament of the Lord's Sup-
per there, at the same time.  One of the company, who was then staying
with the Earl at Castle Campbell, was the laird of Glenorchy, one of the an-
cestors of the present family of BREADALBANE; who importuned the Earl to
desire Mr KNOX to stay some time with them; but Mr Knox could not con-
sent to it.  This ARCHIBALD was the 4th Earl of ARGYLL; and is said to have
been the first man of quality who embraced the Protestant ant Religion in Scot-
land, and contributed all in his power to bring about the Reformation.
   The Castle of Campbell continued to be the occasional residence of the
family of Argyll, as appears from the services which the vassals were obliged,
by their charters, to perform to the family, when residing there; until that
magnificent building was burnt down by the Marquis of MONTROSE, about
the year 1644; and ever since it has been in ruins.  And not only the Cas-
tle of Campbell, but the whole of the parishes, both of Dollar and Muckatt,
were burnt, the inhabitants being vassals of the family of Argyll, excepting
one house in Dollar, which they imagined to belong to the Abbey of Dun-
fermline.  There was likewise only one house saved from the flames, in
Muckart; which they imagined to be in the parish of Fossoway; being near-
ly adjoining to it.  Besides that, there was a sheep-house that escaped the
general conflagration.  Every other house in both parishes was, by the
Grahams, burnt to the ground.


