
     Statistical Account

   Live-flock, Cultivation, etc.-There are at present in the
parish (exclusive of the town) 106 horses, 800 black cat-
tle, and near 2500 sheep.  One very intelligent far-
mer has, for more than 20 years, given an excellent exam-
ple of improving his land, by bringing in barren patches,
ditching, draining, liming, raising turnip, sowing grass,
etc. and his neighbours, who were not much disposed to
follow the earliest improvers in the parish of Kinellar, that
had other means of living than by their farms, are now be-
ginning to see the benefit of following his example.  A
better kind of plough is introduced, and cart, which 40
years ago were unknown, are now generally used instead of
creels and packets and curracks, as they were called, which
did little work, with more oppression to man and horse.
There is another farmer in the parish that occupies a farm,
(on which 10 oxen and a proportional number of horses
were formerly used), without any family or service, but
himself and a housekeeper.  He alone manages a plough
with four horses and  two cattle, on a farm abounding with
rokcs and great stones, carries a spade in his plough, and
makes work that is far from bad; and he threshes, dries,
and manages his grain himself.  There is no manure in the
parish but dung and a mixture of soils, to which they now
add lime from Aberdeen.  The chief productions are oats,
barley, pease, potatoes, and lately turnip is railed in consi-
derable quantities:  The advantage of turnip fro cleaning
and improving the ground, and also for rearing and fatten-
ing cattle, is now generally known.  A considerable quan-
tity of oat-meal and barley, above what the parish needs,
is sold every year in Aberdeen, and a great part of the
rent of the parish is paid in these two articles.  There is
reared and sold every year from this parish, and driven
south, a number of black cattle: but this part of the coun-
try has never been able to raise a sufficient supply of good
horses.  The price of everything here is much the same


