
   166                      BANFFSHIRE.

   yet be more frequently afforded than present circumstances per-
   mit. The effects of bard labour, and under-feeding, become
   very perceptible on the approach of age.
	In so far as moral delinquency can be traced from our earliest
   records, commencing in 1718, it appears that, more than a hundred
   years ago, when the population of the parish was much less than it
   is at present, crime of every description was more generally preva-
   lent.  Notwithstanding the severe discipline which the church then
   rigorously enforced, the number of illegitimate births was as great
   as at the present day, and not unfrequently attended with circum-
   stances of a revolting and aggravated description, which are now
   unheard of in the parish.

                            <TABLE=IV-INDUSTRY.>
                Agriculture.-Extent of different kinds of land.\f*
	Number of acres of cultivated land, standard imperial measure,	6955
        waste or pasture land,           			        3428
        Underwood,                                                       750
                                                                       ______
	   Total extent of the parish,                                 11133
	   Number of acres improveable waste land,                      1597
	   waste land, chiefly fitted for planting,.                    1831
	   improved within the last forty years,                        2305
   	There are no undivided commons in the parish, but on the moss
   of Banff, extending to about 180 acres, about one-half of which
   is in Alvah, the Earl of Seafield and the Earl of Fife (for a few
   farms on his estates) have a servitude of firing; but the "bottom"
   or under strata belongs in property to the Forglen estates, and be-
   ing on the sandy clay, of a good quality, the ground is brought
   into cultivation as the moss is exhausted.
        The valued rent of the parish is L. 3304, 13s. 4d. Scotch, and
   the real rental about L. 4065 Sterling. The average rent of
   arable land is 13s. per imperial acre, or 16s. 5d. per Scotch acre,
   but, taking into account surplus rents paid by subtenantS, the ave-
   rage rent paid for land is 14s. 3d. per imperial acre, or 18s. per
   Scotch acre.
  	Until about the year 1754, when the late Earl of Findlater in-
   troduced the improved system of husbandry, the agriculture of this

<FOOTNOTE>The extent ofland improved within forty years, the extent in different kinds
   of crop, the quantity of grain produced, and the amount of live-stock, have been ob-
   tained from returns made by all the farmers in the parish, who both kindly furnish-
   ed the information in question, and studied to render it as accurate as possible. One
   of the estates has been recently surveyed ; but of other four the surveys are of older
   date, and the survey of the remainivg one has not yet been completed ; so that in
   our statements of the total extent of the parish, the extent of waste land, &C. ex-
   treme accuracy cannot be warranted, although we have reason to think that our
   statements are pretty nearly correct.


