                         DUNNET.                            47

Committee of the General Assembly has appointed a teacher with
a salary of L.20 per annum, and which will be of great benefit.
   Friendly Society.-There is one Friendly Society in the parish,
but it has been productive of no obvious advantages.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of person
receiving parochial aid is about 100. The sum allotted to each.
of the greater part of them is a few shillings twice in the year.
The more necessitous are supplied more liberally.
  The lands of Hollandmaik in the parish, were purchased in
1835 for the poor, at the price of L.630, yielding a clear rent of
about L.25 per annum. There is also an annuity of L.5, 11s.
1 4/18d. payable from the estate of Freswick, and interest of L. 300
capital, at 4 1/3 per cent. L. 13, 10s. which, with the collections,
say L.10, 16s. 11d., make a sum of L. 54, 18s. From this sum is
to be deducted L.4, 10s., the interest of L.100, appropriated by
the donor, the late George Oswald, Esq. of Scotston, for paying
the school fees of those children whose parents are unable to pay
which leaves the sum of L. 52, 13s. for annual distribution.
There are no poor rates. With few exceptions, those amnong whom
the poor funds are divided, are objects of charity; old and infirm
people, who have no families to help them; widows with weak families,
and the like. There is no general disposition to take pa-
rochial relief where they have other means to rely on, such as as-
sistance from children or relatives.
  Fairs.-There are four fairs or markets held in the parish annually
for the sale of cattle, horses, sheep, &c., viz. one at Dun-
net, first Tuesday of April, and the great market at the same place,
on Tuesday, after 15th August, old style, which  lasts two days,
and is well attended. There is another on the first Tuesday of
October, old style; and the Beaster market, third Tuesday of
October, old style.
   Fuel.-The fuel used is nearly altogether peats: it is of
easy access, and good quality. The expense of it is not easily ascertained
A large cart load sells for 2s. Coals are imported
at the neighbouring harbour of Castlehill, but little is used.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The arable land, by last Statistical Account, was 1600 Scots,
or 2000 imperial acres; it is now upwards of 5000 acres: the rent
was then L.950, it is now about L.3600. The system of ploughing
with oxen and horses, three and four abreast, has been dicontinued;

<FOOTNOTE> The collections since the church was repaired, L.13 , 17s. 11d. per annum.


