
                    TIREE AND COLL.                            207

brave but ambitious and grasping character, formed the design of an-
nexing that property to his own dominions, and thought the young
laird of Coll's minority a favourable opportunity for putting his pro-
ject into execution.  In these views he was opposed by Neil Mor,
so called from his great strength and stature, who had the manage-
intent of the property, and acted as guardian to his young nephew
during his minority.  An armed force having been despatched to
subdue and take possession of the island, Neil Mor marched out
to encounter them with such followers as be could muster to meet
the sudden emergency.  The contending parties came to blows
at a small rivulet, since that period called Sruthan nan Ceann,
and, after a bloody battle, the invaders were overthrown with
great slaughter.  It is supposed the rivulet received its name in
consequence of the great number of heads struck off in this en-
gagement.
   Some time afterwards, this brave and disinterested man, who
had defended the property against all attempts to wrest it from
the rightful owner, was treacherously surprised and slain under
night at his residence in Mull, by a party of twenty-four armed
men, employed by the chief for this purpose.
   In Coll, also, there are several monuments of antiquity.  The
remains of eight duns or Danish forts, and of three religious
houses, are pointed out, of which nothing now remains but the
foundations.  The old castle at Breacacha, formerly the resi-
dence of the proprietors, is a very ancient edifice, having been
built before the M'Leans got possession of the island, probably
by the Lord of the Isles.  It is still in a pretty entire state, and
the roof standing. It ceased to be inhabited perhapss one hundred
years ago.
   There are two upright stones or pillars, about six feet high,
and tapering upwards, to be seen in a farm towards the west end
of Coll, which are supposed to be very ancient.  They are placed
about fifteen yards asunder, and reported by tradition to mark the
burying place of some one of the Fingalian race.  A few stone
coffins have also been met with, containing nothing but decayed
human bones.
   Some coins have been occasionally discovered.  A considerable,
number of silver coins were dug up about twelve yeam ago, and
are believed to have been kept by the late proprietor; but, with
regard to their date, or any inscription upon them, no information
has transpired.


