
822                          PERTHSHIRE.

turnpike, which intersected it, in passing from the Wicks of Beglie
to the old bridge.
  The greater part of the parish is inclosed, and the fences are
kept in good condition.
  Bridqes.-The foundation stone of the new bridge was laid in
May 1821, and the whole fabric was completed in the same year.
It consists of three elliptic arches, each being 75 feet in span;
the width of the bridge hs 24 feet over the parapet; the roadway
is about 28 feet above the bed of the river, and the total length
of the masonry, including the wing, or parapet walls, is 345 feet.
The bridge was reared at the expense of L.16,000 by the city of
Perth. To reimburse them for this large outlays a pontage was
put upon it which yields an annual return of nearly L.1000. The
farmers on the estate of Moncrieffe might have been exempted
from the payment of this pontage; but Sir David Moncrieffe, ac-
tuated by a spirit of uncommon liberality, was contented to forego
this privilege. When it was opened, foot-passengers were charg-
ed a halfpenny every time they passed along; but, by the kind in-
tervention of Sir David, this tax was abolished.
  There are two small bridges over a little stream which consists
of two branches, one issuing from the Ochils in this parish, and
the other from Forgandenny, which form a junction near Pitkeath-
ly House, and formerly impelled the machinery of three mills.
One of these bridges is near the west end of Kintillo, and, as ap-
pears from the parochial registers, was originally built, and long
maintained by the church door collections.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The present church, of Dunbarny was
erected in the year 1787, and can accommodate 651 persons, al-
lowing 18 inches to each. No seat rents are exacted. It nccu-
pies a central position in the parish. The greatest distance at
which any of the inhabitants reside from it is three miles, and,
perhaps, this is one cause of the extreme regularity with which
they attend the dispensation of public ordinances. The number
Of communicants is 400. Previous to the year 1787, a church
stood a few yards west from the site of the present ecclesiastical
fabric. It was erected in the year 1684, but was taken down not
from any decay in its materials, but because it was not of sufficient
dimensions to accommodate the whole population, which was doubled
between the years 1759 and 1787. Previous to 1684 the parish
church stood a mile west from the Bridge of Earn, in the burying-
ground near the mansion of Dunbarny. This site being near the

 				4


