
180                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

en away from the estate of Longniddry, and fallen into the pos-
session of different proprietors. The history of the House of Se-
ton mentions that George Earl of Winton, who died 1650, "did
conquest two considerable few lands in Longniddrie, hereditarilly;
the one from Sir George Douglas in the east, and the other from
the laird of Corstorphine (Forrester of Castorphine.")  As also
"he bought hereditarilly the teynds of Longniddrie from the then
Bothwell, Lord Holyroodhouse." The estates of the Earl of
Winton were forfeited in the rebellion 1715, and sold, to the York
Buildings Company;-from whom Longaiddry was purchased in
1779 by John Glassel, Esq. who was a native of Dumfries, and set-
tled sometime as a merchant in Virginia. A this death, his only child,
Joan, succeeded to the property, and married Lord John Donglas
Henry Campbell, brother, and presumptive heir of William
Duke of Argyle. Her eldest son, John Henry Glassel Campbell,
is the present proprietor of Longniddry. The farm of Southfield,
which formed a part of Longniddry, was sold by Mr Glassel, and
is now the property of Lord Wernyss.
   Lands of Hodges.-The lands of Hodges in this parish, lying
betwixt the baronies of Penston and Samuelston, took their
name from Robert Hodge, a man of some eminence in his day
as a lawyer. That property originally belonged to the town of
Haddington, and formed a part of the extensive common attached
to the burgh. The town having engaged in a law-suit, employed
Mr Hodge, who resided in the neighbourhood, to conduct it.
After being carried to the House of Lords, it was decided in favour
of Haddington; and the magistrates gave Mr Hodge those lands
as a compensation for his services in bringing the process to a
successful issue.
   In 1650, a decrees was obtained from the Commission for the
Plantation of Kirks, to disjoin the lands of Samuelston, Penston,
Elvingston and others, from the parishes of Haddington and
Aberlady to erect them into a separate parish, and to build a kirk
at a place called Thrieplaw, on the west side of the Cittle knowe,
being the east part of Mr Hodge's property. That erection did
not take place; but a church was built which served as a place of
worship for the western parts of the parish of Haddington. Mr
Hodge took an active part, and had the principal charge in the
building of this church. He was a man of exemplary conduct,
was referred to in almost all cases of dispute, and was most active
in maintaining the observances of religion, and peace and good or-


