
106			  LANARKSHIRE.

more magnificent than it had ever been. In the same year, Wil-
liam the Lion, King of Scots, granted a charter to the town for
holding a market on Thursday. In four years thereafter, Glasgow
was erected into a royal burgh, and, " in 1190, the town received
a royal charter for holding a fair every year, for ever, from the 8th
of the Apostle Peter. (29th June,) and for the space of eight days
complete." The fair commences on the second Monday of July,
and continues the whole week. In 1210 the Grayfriars Monas-
tery was at the foot of the Deanside Brae. Little more is known of
it, than that the citizens of Glasgow, at that date, went in a body
on the last day of the fair to pay their respects to the Abbot of
Melrose, who lived in the monastery, and had been instrumental
in procuring the fair,
	In 1270, the religious fraternity of Blackfriars was patronized
by Sir Matthew Stewart of Castlemilk, who granted an an-
nuity from his estate, " on condition of their saying mass for ever
for the souls of him, the said Matthew, and for his mither and
bairns of our plabe, progenitors, and successors, and all Christian
souls perpetually." This ancient family has always been respect-
able. In 1398, Sir Walter Stewart of Castlemilk, brother to Sir
John Stewart of Darnley, was named one of the sureties on the
part of Scotland, in a treaty of peace between England and Scot-
land.
	In 1300, Edward I. of England took upon him to appoint An-
thony Beik to the see of Glasgow. Earl Percy, at the same time,
usurped the military government of the western part of Scotland,
and took possession of the Episcopal palace in Glasgow. * Sir

<FOOTNOTE>The ancient castle of Carstairs was originally a Roman station or fortification,
and was given by King David, or St David, as he was called, in 1126, to the Bishop
of Glasgow for his country palace. The following curious information is from the
Rotuli Scotiss, in the Tower, published by the Record Commission.
	"When Edward I. was at Berwick in 1292, deciding on the claims of Bruce and
Baliol, he was in possession of all the fostresses in Scotland. At that period the
King granted a license to Robert Wiseheart, Bishop of Glasgow, to finish the Castle
of Carstaire, which had been began without leave. The following is a copy of the
license:--'The King and Sovereign Lord of the kingdom of Scotland, to all his
bailiffs and faithfull men to whom these shall come, greeting, Whereas a venerable
father, Robert, Bishop of Glasgow, at his manor of Carstairs, in the county of Lanark,
a certain castle of stone and mortar, after the death of Alexander of blessed memory,
late King of Scotland, without any license, began to build. We, to the same bishop
a special grace, being willing to have granted in this part to him, for ourselves, and
for our heirs, that he the said castle so begun, may finish and fortify with kernals,
and the name so finished and turreted, or kernallated, may hold to him and to his
successors for ever. Nor wish we that the said bishop or his successors, by occasion
of the said castle being begun without our licence or will, as aforesaid, is by us or our
heirs, or our bailiffs or servants whatsomever, be quarelled, or in any way aggriaved.
Witness the King at Berwick-on-Tweed the 15th of July."
	It is remarkable that in 1292 the castle and manor of Carstairs was possessed by
one of our most public-spirited and benevolent bishop, and that, after a lapse of more
					4


