
984                      FIFESHIRE.

coal dip int two directions.  The precise period when coal began
to be worked in the pits here cannot be ascertained.  The tradi-
tion is, that a pit was opened by order of Oliver Cromwell, who
took possession of the Earl of Kelly's estate, of which it then
formeda part, and this old working still goes under the name of
Cromwell's Pit.  After the working had been long discontinued,
it was recommenced by the proprietor, Sir John Anstruther, about
the year 1770 on a large scale, and still continues.  An exten-
sive salt manufactory was also established byt the same active
proprietor ; but this has been long ago given up.

                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Burgh.--The burgh of Pittenweem consists of a street extend-
ing from east ot west, with the parish church at the east end,-a
street which fronts the harbour, and another of more recent erec-
tion running parallelto those on the line of the county road.  Se-
veral lanes connect these streets fromnorth ot south.  The
houses, both fo the old and new parts opf the town, are substatial
and neatly built.  There are several excellent shops well filled
with merchandise, and the whole place exhibits an air of cleanli-
ness, comfort, and respectability.
   The burgh was at first a burgh of barony, holding of the priors
of the Priory of Pittenweem, but, in 1542, by a charter of James V.
granted in favour of John, then prior, it was erected into a
royal burgh, and, in 1547, the prior and convent granted to the
"provost, bailies, council, community, burgesses, and inhabi-
tants, the burgh as the same was builded, or to have been builded,
and the harbour thereof, and all moors, mosses, and wate ground,
common ways, and other commonties, liverties, customs, anchor-
ages, &c. belonging thereto."  In 1593, a charter wa also granted
by James VI. to the town " of that great house of loging of the
MOnastery of Pittenweem."  These cahrters were all ratified and
confirmed by act of Parliament in June 1633.
   In 1651, King James VI. passed through the burgh, and slept
a night at Anstruther House.  On his occasion his Majesty was
received by the bailies, and council, and minister "in their best
apparel," and with them twenty-four of the ablest men in their
"best apparel, with partizans, and other twenty-four with musquets."
A table was spread at " Robert Smith's yeet," and the King and
his folowers regaled with "sundrie great bunns of fine flour and
other wheat bread of the best order, baken with sugar, cannell,
and other spices fitting, as also ten gallons of ale, with Canary,


