
                             KETTLE.                        109

in the week is about 4s. 6d. A moderately steady hand will make
5s. 8d. a-week, and the value of his work will be L. 72 ; a few of the
best hands will receive considerably more. Within these three or
four years, a good deal of work has come into the parish from New-
burgh, a port on the Frith of Tay; and from other places, a good
deal of work also goes out from this to other parishes, but not so
much as comes into it; and. the increase of work within the last
120 years is reckoned about 30 per cent. Many young women as
well as men employ themselves on the loom. Elder women and
widows are generally employed in winding pirns; but for these there
is a great want of employment since the lint-wheel failed them. We
have smiths, carpenters, wrights, and masons, sufficient for the pa-
rish, and for helping our neighbours, and one medical gentleman.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  The village of Kettle is situated on the flat of StratHeden, ra-
the low, on the south side of the Eden, the floods of which reach
to the skirts of the village. Its appendages, Burnside and Bank-
ton Park, which are entirely new feu-buildings, lie, ibe former a
little to the south-west, the latte3r a little to the north-west of the
village. Balmalcorn village lies about half-a mile to the south-
east, and Coalton of Burnturk about a mile south-east of Bal-
malcom, on the higher grounds.
  Provisions and Market.-From the vicinity of the metropolis,
and a great many coast towns, provisions are commonly kept at
the Edinburgh prices. At present we have neither flesher, baker,
brewer, writer, stipendiary constable, nor exciseman in the parish.
With butcher-meat we are supplied from Cupar, six miles distant,
or from Freucbie, in the parish of Falkland, a mile and a-half
distant. Carts every day come from Cupar with excellent bread.
Beer is brought from Freuchie or Lethem, in the parish of Moni-
mail.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church has been rebuilt within these
two years; it is of Gothic architecture, with an elegant tower and
clock. Including the purchase of the ground for a new site and
other contingencies, it cost about L. 3000, and holds nearly 1200
sitters. The manse and garden are in good order. A good and
substantial manse was built in 1792, and a substantial wall was
put round the garden in 1827. The living by the last decreet
of modification in 1823 is 15 chalders of victual, half meal and
half barley, at the highest fiar prices; but in Fife we have only
one fiar for each kind of grain; and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion


