
                        CULLEN.                           323

   appointed Chief Baron of the Court of Exchequer in Scotland,
   and a member of the Privy-Council.  He was chosen one of the
   sixteen Peers in the first British Parliament, and was repeatedly
   re-elected to the same honour.  In 1713, he was again appointed
   Chancellor, and Keeper of the Great Seal in Scotland; and during,
   all the periods in which he held the office of Chancellor, he
   presided in tbe Court of Session.  As a Senator of the College
   of Justice, he is recorded to have displayed consummate eloquence,
   great legal abilities, and a peculiar talent of dispatch in business.
   His Lordship died in 1730, in the sixty-sixth year of his age.
      There have been few men, to whom his country has been so
   deeply indebted, considered in the character of a peaceful patriot,
   as to Jarnes sixth Earl of Findlater and third Earl of Seafield,
   born 1714.  To that distinguished individual, appertained the exclusive
   merit, of introducing into the north of Scotland, those improvements
   in agriculture, * manufactures, and all kinds of useful

   to bring in a bill for dissolving it, and securing the Protestant succession in the
   House of Hanover, preserving the Queen's prerogative in both kingdoms, and an
   entire amity and good correspondence betwixt England and Scotland.  His Lordship's
   motion was put to the vote: 108 Peers were in the House, who were equally
   divided, viz. 54 for the motion, and 54 against it; 13 proxies voted for and 17 against
   the motion, leaving a majority of only 4 out of 138-so narrowly did the Union
   escape a fatal blow from the hands of the individual who had been so instrumental in
   promoting it.
   <FOOTNOTE>The following may serve as a specimen of the important services, rendered by his
   Lordship, to the cause of agriculture in Banffshire. The agriculture of this
   county stood in the most forlorn state, till about the year 1754, when the late Earl of
   Findlater, then Lord Deskford, to whose unremitting exertions are to be ascribed
   the introduction of improvements in agriculture, as well as manufactures, in this
   country, came to reside in the neighbourbood of Banff; and, having taken one of his
   farms into his own possession, set about cultivating it in the most approved manner
   then known in England ; and for that purpose engaged, one after another, three Of
   the most experienced overseers from that kingdom, and, in a few years, improved the
   farms of Craigherbs, in the parish of Boyndie, and Colleenard, in the parish of Banff,
   as well as the fields about his princely seat of Cullen House, in a style and manner
   then unknown in this part of the country.  But his Lordship was sensible,, that,
   however successful he might be- in the cultivation of farms in his own possession, it
   was not prob#ble, that this success would operate so powerfully on the minds of his
   tenants, as to induce them, without some substantial reasons, to venture on untried
   experiments, or to leave the beaten paths in which they and their fathers had trod for
   ages.  He therefore formed and executed a plan, which did great credit to hisjudgment,
   and which has had the good effect of awakening that spirit of improvement
   which ban now become general over the district, at least among the proprietors and
   more respectable farmers. His Lordship selected some ofthe most intelligent, active,
   and substantial tenants in the country, to whom he granted leases on reasonable terms,
   for two nineteen years and a lifetime, of farms formerly occupied by three or four tenants
   By these leases, the tenant became bound under a penalty, which was inserted
   in  the lease, to enclose and subdivide a certain portion of the farm, with stone
   fences, or ditch and hedge, during the first nineteen years of the lease, and in the
   course of the second nineteen years, to enclose the remainder.  They were also bound
   to summer fallow, and sow grass-seeds ob a certain number of acres, within the first
   five years of the lease.  His Lordship bad also the merit of being the first to introduce
   the turnip-busbandry, and, by his example, as well as precept during his frequent
   excursions among his tenants, was the means of bringing the cultivation of to that


