
			     KIRRIEMUIR.                    181

dissenting meeting in the town, except a Scots Episcopalian one;
since then the people have had their share of those jarrings and
unchristian resentments which always accompany the introduction
of new opinions. The Dissenters, who have been some time esta-
blished here, live on a friendly footing with their neighbours; and
the members of the Established Church, the Episcopalians, and
Seceders, do not look upon one another as of different species, be-
cause they happen to differ in opinion. I may add, that while
ignorance and vice still abound, my parishioners are in general
remarkably well-informed; and many of them are distinguished
for the benevolence of their dispositions, their piety towards God,
and the strictest integrity, sobriety, and temperance. For many
years there has scarcely been a prosecution for poaching in game,
or in the salmon fishing in the Esk. Smuggling has entirely dis-
appeared.

			      IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Aqriculture and Rural Economy.--The number of acres stand-
ard imperial measure in the lower division of the parish, whhch
are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage, according to Mr
Blackadder, is 11,000; and in the higher division there are of
arable intersected with meadow and fine pasture, 2000 acres. The
number of acres which never have been cultivated, and which re-
main constantly waste, or in pasture, in the lower part of the pa-
rish, is 2500, and in the higher part of the parish 15,500. The
number of acres that might with a profitable application of capital
be added to the cultivated land of the parish is extremely small.
There is no part of the parish in a state of undivided common.
In the lower division of the parish there are 2000 imperial acres
in plantations, and in the higher there are 500. The waste sur-
face of roads, houses, water, &c. may be estimated at 500 imperial
acres.
	Rent of Land.--Mr Blackadder is of opinion that the average
rent of arable land in the parish cannot be stated at less than L. 1
Sterling the imperial acre. The average rent of frazing an ox
three years old on fine pasture is L. 3; a milch cow, L. 3, 15s.;
and a ewe and lamb, 12s. 6d.
	Husbandry.--It may be remarked, that there is in general a spi-
rit of improvement apparent through the whole parish, and that the
land is drained and cultivated according to the most approved me-
thods.


