

                           ST MADOES.                    627

lower down, is the figure of a goat, a good deal defaced, and ad-
joining this, various sculptures almost obliterated. This side of the
stone, through minutely carve, does not seem to have been squared
or dressed beforehand It bears no tool marks, and has several
warts, as if just newly taken from the quarry. The side opposite
is b far the hand of the artirt. The principal figure is that of
a cross, the upright portion of which occupies the whole length of
the stone. The shaft and transept are beautifully enriched with
very complicated tracery; both, round the point where they cross,
are wreathed woth a carved circle or halo. On each side of the
shaft of the cross, beneath its transept, is a monstrous lizard-like
figure, apparently in the agonied of death, from being crunshed
through at the loins by a savage-looking creature with a head like
a wolf, body lije a dog, and a thick curled tail. The two com-
partments adjoining the top of the cross are occupied by nonde-
scripts, with monstrous and diminutive bodies, apparantly gnawing
their own backs. On the top, equally visible from both sides of the
stone, are lizard-like figures couchant, facing each other.
     Modern Buildings.___Pitfour Castle, the residence of the sole
proprietor of the parish, is a large quadrangular building, standing
on an artificial terrace, affording every species of accmidation
befitting the rank and fortune of its porsessor. It was principally
erected by John Richardson, Esq. grandfather of the present pro-
preitor, through the latter has made considerable additions to it. It
is sorrounded by a fine demesne, studded with every variety of
trees in the most thriving condition, and ornamented by a flower-
farden, beautifully situated, and tastefully laid out. Viewed in
connection with its park, gardens, shrubberied, &c. there are few
finer places to be seen in this part of the country.
     Eminent Men and Ministers.___Alexander Lindsay, who was or-
dained minister of this parish in 1591, was a man of some note in
his own times; and his name has come down to us in connection
with a most interesting portion of our church's history, viz. the
proceedings of the General Assembly of 1638. Himself a man
of property, and one of a family of considerable influence in for-
mer days,__the Lindsays of Evelick,__he had easy access to court,
where he soom became a favourire; and entering into its schemes
for the establishment of Episcopacy in Scotland, he was in the
year 1607 appointed Bishop of Dunkeld. For nearly thirty-two
years, he discharged the duties of that office with a diligence and


