
	920                           	FIFESHIRE.

	produce of all kinds of corn must be at least four times greater,
	while the number of cattle reared and fattened is so much greater
	as scarcely to admit of a comparison. A great change has also
	taken place in the houses of all classes within the bounds of the
	parish, and perhaps a still greater in the farm-steadings. These
	are all of the best description, two of them having thrashing-mills
	driven by steam, six by water, and twenty-three by horses.

	December 1844.

				PARISH OF FALKLAND.

			PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

			    THE REV. A. WILSON, MINISTER.

			I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
		  Name.-THE present parish of Falkland embraces what was
		formerly Kilgour and Falkland. The former name, like many
		in the neigbbourhood, is of Celtic origin: Ceil-gor, "the Plea-
		sant Church ;" the Lomond,* or Lois-monadh, "the Hill Fort-
		ress." The name Falkland, however, or Faukland, as it often
		occurs in old charters, is considered of Gothic or Teutonie ori-
		gin, from Falk, "a species of hawk," referring to the once fa-
		vourite amusement of hawking. As a royal residence, indeed,
		Falkland seems to, have been chiefly chosen with a view to the
		pleasures of the chase. Even after the union of the Crown of
		Scotland with that of England, both King James I. and Charles I
		enjoyed that pastime in the wood or park of Falkland. This name,
		at first successively given to the manor, castle, and palace is now
		extended to the town and parish.
		  Boundaries and Extent.-The parish of Falkland is bounded
		on the north by Auchtermuchty; on the east, by Kettle and
		Markinch; on the south, by leslie; and on the west, by Port-

                <Footnote> The Lomond, according to Jamieson, is derived from the Welsh dialect of the
		Celtic, from Lio, "what is raised or ejected," and munt, "a mound or mount."
		Falkland, as it stands in the charter of Milcolm IV., is Falecklen, which might also
		be referred to the Celtic, as if Fal-aighe-leana," the  Chieftain or King's Hind-
		meadow."

