
			LESMAHAGO                           37

ber than was done forty years ago, they are better fed, and are
thus enabled to struggle with the storms and snows of winter; while
surface-drains made upon the soft lands, at the rate of L. 3 for
6000 yards, have added greatly to their improvement, by keeping
the ground dry, and raising sweeter herbage.
	Husbandry.--A very considerable extent of waste land has been
reclaimed in Lesmahago within the last twenty-five years; which
has generally paid the improvement in the course of the first three
years, leaving the amelioration of the soil as profit to the farmer.
Draining had long been only partially carried on, but seems now
to become more general. Irrigation is little attended to here, ex-
cept, in a few instances, for meadow hay; and embanking is not
much wanted, as the streams have generally high and steep banks.
	The leases granted to tenants are generally for nineteen years.
Some time ago, when land was constantly increasing in value,
landlords in some instances made the leases of shorter duration;
but this has not had the effect of either putting money into their
pockets, or improving their estates: it has rather been of a con-
trary tendency. As mentioned before, the farm-houses have been
much improved within the last forty years; and within the same
time, enclosures have been much attended to; some hundreds of
miles of Galloway stone-dikes have been built, where the materials
were abundant, or the soil inimical to hedges; while the last have
been raised upon the better soils, and now adorn a great propor-
tion of the parish. It may be regretted, however, that we still want
those hedge-rows of timber, which in many parts of the island give
the appearance of a close-wooded country.
	The greatest obstacles to improvement appears to be the sys-
tem of entails; and, I may add, the custom among landlords of let-
ting their farms to the highest bidder, without a sufficient evidence
of his possessing capital adequate to the management of the farm
in the most advantageous way.
	Produce.--The gross amount of raw produce (exclusive of the
pasture lands) raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertain-
ed, is as follows:

<TABLE>
20,000 quarters of grain, say at L.1, 5s. per quarter,		       L. 25,000   0  0
600 acres of potatoes, and 50 of turnips, average value L.14 per acre,	   9,100   0  0
1200 tons of cultivated hay, at L.3 per ton, and 300 tons of mea-
      dow, at L.2 per ton,			                           4,200   0  0
Thinnings of wood,			                                     400   0  0
Cutting of coppice,			                                     250   0  0

						Total                  L. 38,950   0  0

