
                                      ALYTH.                            1121

       siastical records of this parish, the parochial police of that period,
       to which many are disposed to look back ar a golden age of purity
       and piety, can hardly be regarded in any other view than as most
       injuduciously and unjustifiably rigid, and rather calculated to irri-
       tate and barden the offender than to win him to repentance.

                             III.-POPULATION.
         The only means of estimating the ancient state Of the popula-
       tion, is by comparing the present average of births and marriages
       with the number of former periods, of which very accurate ac-
       counts have bden preserved in the session books.  If we may
       judge from these, the population seems to have continued nearly
       stationary down to the end of the last century, since which it has
       slightly increased.  There is a marked diminution in the number
       of births and marriages from 1630 to the Restoration, and an
       equally marked increase for some years after that event; but this
       is easily accounted for without supposing any variation in the
       number of inhabitants.  We have no exact account of the popu-
       lation before 1774, when it was found to be 2680.  In the year
       1792, the date of the former report, it amounted to 2734; in
       1821, to 2387; in 1831, to 2888; and in 1841, to 2913.
         The number of inhabitants within the limits of the baronial
       burgh of Alyth is 1738; in the country part of the parish, 1175.
       The population of the village has increased very much within the
       last sixty or seventy years.  In 1774, it amounted to only 555;
       in 1792, to 1060.  The great increase between these dates is ex-
       plained bv the circumstance, that, during the intervening period,
       several additional `cres had been feued by the superior.  The
       decrease in the rural population is owing to the abolition of the
       class of small farmers, and to the smaller number of hands now
       required in agricultural operations.
         It is impossible to state the number of births with perfect accu-
       racy, from the remissness of members of Dissenting congregations
       in registering their children.  Taking the number of children not
       registered at one-tenth of the whole, the average annual number
       of births may be stated at 77 ; the average number of marriages
       at 16.  Within the last seven years, there have been 36 illegiti-

<FOOTNOTE> were called and compeired, and promised not to sell any wares to any person upon
       the Sabth, between or after sermons, except it be upon neceseltic, and that to any
       sick person; or that it be of necessitie to help to give our some necessaries for bore-
       ing of the dead or such like neddfull thing, and for performance of the promise they
       held up their hands in presence of the session: nor to sell unnecessarie things as they
       did formerlie upon the Sabth, except neidfull, tobacco or bread.*
          PERTH.                                                        4 B


