

	916                           FIFESHIRE.

	liers, 3 labourers, and 2 engine-men employed at the work, which
	has recently been let to an enterprising tenant.
	   Limestone of good quality is found in various places, and has
	been successfully wrought at Over Kellie, Baldutho, and Gibliston.
	   There are several excellent freestone quarries, one of them yield-
	ing good pavement.  All these freestone quarries lie in the southern
	section of the parisb,-the ridge formerly spoken of as running
	through the heart of the parish, consisting almost entirely of whin-
	stone, and, with some few exceptions, such as at Cassingray, the
	whole northern section may be referred to the same formation.

		               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	   Carnbee originally belonged to the Abbey of Dunfermline, and,
	when it was formed into a temporal lordship, the patronage went
	along with the teinds and other church property.  The name of
	Melville, Laird of Carnbee, appears in public documents as early
	as 1466,-the property having been acquired by that family in the
	reign of Robert the Bruce, and remaining in it till it was sold by
	Sir James Melville in 1598.  One of them was killed at the
	battle of Flodden field, and honourable mention is made of them
	both before and after the Reformation.  Subsequently Sir James
	Galloway, created Lord Dunkeld by Charles II., held the lands
	and the patronage.  Carnbee Place (as the old mansion-house
	was called, and which was only taken down in 1813), was long the
	residence of the family of Lord Dunkeld, whose names are often
	mentioned in the parish records.  The third and last Lord Dun-
	keld joined Viscount Dundee at the battle of Killiecrankie, after
	which he was attainted, and died in the French service.  The pa-
	tronage has since passed into the family of Kellie, and is now,
	along with the lands, vested in that of Balcaskie.
	   Eminent Men.-The following is a list of distinguished persons
	connected with the parish: Sir Thomas Erskine, first Earl of
	Kellie, who bore a conspicuous part in suppressing the Gowrie
	conspiracy ; Dr George Sibbald of Gibliston, uncle of Sir Robert
	Sibbald, the historian of Fife, and a very celebrated physician;
	Sir William Bruce, the celebrated architect; Thomas the sixth,
	or more generally known as the musical Earl of Kellie; the eccen-
	tric Hugo Arnot of Balcormo, the author of " State Trials," an
	"Essay upon Nothing," and other works; Archibald Constable,
	the celebrated bookseller; and if talent and success in mercantile
	affairs, joined to personal worth and a long series of benefits con-
	ferred upon the parish, should place any one in the list of distin-
	guished persons who have been connected with it, may be men-



