
                	        ALVAH.                          167

   part of the country was of the most wretched description, and in
   this parish no improvement of any consequence seems to have taken
   place until about twenty years after;\f* but since that time, im-
   provement has been rapid and steadily progressive, and the agri-
   culture of the parish may now be said to be conducted on tile
   most approved principles.
	Rotation, &c.-A regular rotation of cropping, suited to the na-
   ture of the soil, has long been universally adopted. The most
   common rotations are what are called the five, six, and seven shift
   courses-tbe last-mentioned being tbat which is, at present, most
   generally followed. Great and increasing attention is also paid to
   the preparation of the soil by superior ploughing and cleaning, and
   judicious application of manure. Lime has long been extensively
   employed, and, excepting a few cases in which it has been injudi-
   ciously applied, it has always been attended with the best effects.
   Several years ago, no fewer than eighty barrels or forty bolls per
   Scotch acre were laid on the haughs of Sandlaw, at an expense of
   L. 10 per acre, exclusive of carriage. In consequence of this, the
   produce was doubled-tbe fields yielding upwards of seven quar-
   ters of wheat, followed next season by 300 stones of hay per Scotch
   acre. This, however, is an extreme case, arising from the depth
   and nature of the soil. The greater part of the inferior land of
   the parish can scarcely receive twenty-five barrels per Scotch
   acre, without sustaining an injury which the farmers as yet know
   not how to repair. Within the last four or five years, bone-dust
   has been introduced as a manure, and with a degree of success
   which has not yet been satisfactorily explained. We cannot as yet
   say with certainty which of the ingredients of this manure consti-
   tutes the food of plants; for although bones boiled and crushed
   have been found to afford as good a manure as those in a raw
   state, and although this circumstance would, seem to strengthen
   the opinion, that it is not the oily matter in the bones that consti-
   tutes the manure, yet the fact, that bones so boiled and crushed
   render the soil apparently as rich with oil as bones in a raw state
   forbids us from asserting positively that the phosphate of lime
   alone constitutes the food of plants in the manure in question.

   <FOOTNOTE>The state of agriculture in this parish at the period in question, is incidentally
   noticed in Souter's " General View of the Agriculture of the County of Banff, drawn
   up in 1812, for the consideration of the Board of Agriculture." In the same work
   may also be found descriptions and engravings of a turnip-sowing machine and horse.
   hoe, the ingenious inventions of the late Mr John Cowie, farmer at Sandlaw, and the
   first implements of the kind introduced into this part of the country.


