
402                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of Raeburnfoot, about a mile above the church. It is situated on
he tongue of land between the houses of Raeburnfoot and the
Esk, inclining gently towards the east, and about forty feet above
the level of the river. I stumbled upon it accidentally in sum
mer 1810, and am inclined to believe, that I have been fortunate
enough to discover the true Roman station in the head of Esk-
dale. The plan and description, as taken from actual measure-
ment at the time, are as follows.
	The most natural approach to the camp is on the south after
crossing the Esk at Raeburnfoot, where the length of the outer
line, consisting of a ditch and rampart, is as follows:--From the
south-west corner, to the entrance into the camp the extent is
120 feet; the entrance is 20 feet; and from the entrance to the
south-east corner, 230 feet,--making in all 370 feet. On one
side, the ditch is 5 feet deep at an average, and about 20 feet
wide; and the rampart on the inside of the ditch is formed of the
earth that was taken from the ditch. The ditch on the east side
has now filled up; but the rampart is perfectly distinct, and mea-
sures thus:--From the south-east corner to the entrance into the-
camp on that side is 240 feet; the entrance itself is 20 feet; and
from the entrance to the north-east corner is 330 feet; making 590
feet in all. On the north side, the ditch is both deeper and wider
than we found it to be on the south side; for, in place of being 5 feet
deep, and 20 feet wide, it is 12 feet deep, and 30 feet wide, to de-
fend the camp the more effectually from any attack from the hill,
which on this side begins to rise above the camp. It is for the same
reason that the line on this side is longer than the line on that side;
for, in place of being 370 feet, it is 440, and divided thus:--From
the north-east corner to the entrance, is a space of 270 feet; the
entrance itself is 20 feet; and from the entrance to the north-west
corner is 150 feet. The ditch and rampart on the west side are evi-
dently worn away by the river; for there is a steep bank on that side
and,the form of the camp is evidently incomplete. Happily, however,
for the antiquary, the spirit of the stream seems to have repented
of his intrusion, and has now retired to a considerable distance. The
length, therefore, and subdivisions on that side are as follows:--
From the north-west corner to the outer ditch of the praetorium
is a space of 110 feet. The outer ditch is 10 feet wide, and about
3 feet deep. There is a rampart between the outer and inner
ditch of 10 feet wide at the base, and about 3 feet high. The


