
                               INVERESK.                         259

its structure, its position, and other corroborating 'circumstances,
is in all probability Roman.  It is in the direct line from the Prae-
torium at Inveresk to the harbour of Fisherrow; and, stretching
from either side of it, were the remains of the causeway just men-
tioned.  It consists of three arches, each of which is fifty feet
wide, with a spring of only ten feet; and, from several parts of
the arches approaching almost to a straight line, Dr Carlyle sur-
mises, that the frame or cover must have sunk during the time of
building.  From the approaches being at this day completely be-
yond the reach of the tide, although the river is occasionally affect-
ed by the sea up to this place, it is evident, that, whatever changes
may have occurred in the flowing of the Forth, as at Prestonpans
on the one side, and at Newhaven on the other, the coast is not
materially changed along the boundaries of this parish.  If the
bridge evidences that the sea has not encroached upon the har-
bour, it equally testifies that it has not receded from us.  A circum-
stance afterwards to be alluded to, in our sketch of the antiquities
of the parish, is we think capable of solution on other grounds.
   Tradition also informs us, that, in digging the foundations of
many houses in Fisherrow, ruins similar to those discovered at In-
veresk have been repeatedly exposed; and from this, as a corro-
borating circumstance, it is made more probable, that, connected
with the praetorium and military station here, a municipium, or
colony of citizens, also peopled the neighbourbood.  Traces of
a Roman causeway, which extended from the harbour of Fisher-
row to the camp at Sheriffhall, and thence to Borthwick, were in
many places visible in the memory of man; while another branch,
extending westward to the south of Portobello, and thence into
the parish of Currie, is still, at several points, in remarkable pre-
servation.  The fragment in the parish of Duddingston is well
known locally, under the vulgarized name of "the Fishwives'
Causeway."*
   It is a curious fact, that scarcely a Druidical monument remains
within the limits of the Lothians; and Chalmers in his Caledonia
remarks, that this circumstance plainly intimates the occurrence of
some decidedly religious events during the obscure ages, imme-
diately succeeding the abdication of the Roman power. In all pro-

<FOOTNOTE>When cutting the new line of road over the Calton-hall in 1817, a Roman urn
was dug up entire.  It was exactly of the same shape, pattern, and materials as the
one broken in Inveresk churchyard since ; and of which the fragments are in Mr
Ritchies possession.  It was purchased by the late Mr Sivright, and was two or
three years ago disposed of at the posthumous sale of that gentleman's effects.


