
     Statistical Account

mittee of managers, who are annually chosen from the kirk-
session, trades, merchants, and heritors.  In the years 1782
and 1783, the poor of this place were in great distress; but
the liberal donations of her Grace the Duchess of Buccleugh,
and Robert Craig, Esq. greatly contributed to enable the
kirk-session to relieve the poor, both of their own, and other
congregations.  In justice to both these distinguished charac-
ters, it ought to be observed, that their attention, humanity,
and liberality to the poor of this place, have, at no time,
been wanting.  The charity of the family of Buccleugh, in
particular, is worthy of the highest rank and most opulent
fortune.-The grammar school here has long been in high
repute, and at one period was considered as the first in the
kingdom.  It has produced some of the greater geniuses, and
brightest ornaments of the age; some of the most distinguish-
ed characters in the literary and political world, having here
received the rudiments of their education.  A considerable
time ago, it seemed to be on the decline, owing to a variety
of causes, which it is unnecessary to enumerate; but the me-
rit and abilities of the late and present rectors, have done
much to restore it to its former reputation.  The teaching
room is large, pleasant, well aired, and inferior to none on
this side of the Tweed, in point of convenience and accom-
modation.  A considerable number of young gentlemen are
boarded with the rector, who pays unwearied attention to
their health, morals, and education.  They amount, at pre-
sent, to 20 or upwards; and when the master's house shall be
enlarged, of which there is no very distant prospect, there is
no doubt that there will be many more.  The salary is about
33 L. Sterling; besides which, there is a very good dwelling-
house, and a large garden.  There are likewise 4 English
schools here, all of which are well attended.  The principal
English master, who teaches geometry, navigation, and draw-


