
200                        ORKNEY.

   Trees there are none, excepting in the manse garden. A few
apple-trees, planted by a former incumbent, are now bearing; and
about a dozen more, planted within the last three and four years,
(all on the wall,) are promising. Pear-trees planted at the same
time have grown well to wood, but have neither blossomed nor
yielded fruit. The.cherry-trees of the same age have, for the last
two seasons, made a tolerable show of blossom, and some fruit set,
yet we have never bad a ripe cherry. These trees having all an
exposure to the south-southeast, are protected from the winds
which are here most blighting. Amd as the soil in which they are
Planted is good, it is only the want of sunshine that can binder
their prosperity.
   Shortly after my settlement in 1830, I laid out a piece of plea-
sure ground in front of the manse, and planted alders, mountain-
ash, laburnum, ash, elm, plane, and birch. The situation is ex-
posed to the west wind, which, even in summer, is here so hurtful
to vegetation, that it blackens the very nettles and docks. But
they have struck their roots deep in rich earth, and I have much
pleasure in observing their progress. Many of the original plants
died gradually, but beautiful suckers shot up; and there is - now
the appearance of a shrubbery. The alders and, Inountain-ash
seem to thrive best.
   Under this head, it may be mentioned, that all kinds of eseu-
lents, flowers, and shrubs that suit the climate, grow with a re
warkable luxuriance.

             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The late Sir W. Honeyman, one of the Senators of the Col-
lege of Justice, was born at the family residence of Aikerness in
Evie. His extensive possessions throughout Orkney have now all
passed into the bands of other proprietors; and the ancient man-
sion was pulled down about fourteen years ago, to give place to a
modern farmhouse and steading.
   The mother of Ralph and Ebenezer Erskine was of the family
of Halcro, one of the oldest iti Orkney, said to be lineally de-
seended from a Norwegian King, find connected by marriage with
the Royal House -of Scotland. Margaret, the daughter of Hugh
Halcro, was married to the Rev. Henr Erskine of Chiruside. at
the kirk of Evie, 27th May 1696.

<FOOTNOTE>it may not be uninteresting to record the certificate furnished her on that occa-
sion, of which the following is a copy:
  " At the Kirk of Evie, May 27,1666.  To all and sundry into whose bands these


