
190			 LANARKSHIRE.

to Lord Stair, as the highest with which I am acquainted. On the
subject of tithes he says, 'They were at all times the property of
the Church or state.' He adds, that, 'into whatever hands they
pass, teinds carry along wuth them, as burthen affecting them,
competent stipends for the ministers who are, or who shall be,
elected; in other words, that, into whatever hands teinds may
come,they are inherently necessarily burthened with the mainte-
nance of the clergy." The Lord Justice-Clerk then said, "Where
has there been since the world begun such a body of clergy in
point of virtue, learning, piety, and a faithful discharge of their
parochial duties? The clergy of Scotland, I am proud to say, have
never been equalled by the clergy of any nation upon the earth. Much
rason would the landholders of this country have to be contented
and satisfied, though the burden of maintaining such a body of
clergy had been ten times greater than it is. Still more reason
have the heritors of Scotland to be satisfied with their lot, when
they compare their situation with that of the landed proprietors of
any other country."
	Lord Craig "would not go over the ground occupied by his
learned brother, but would say, of all men in any Christian country
in Europe, the proprietors of land in Scotland have least reason to
complain of the state of the teinds. By the law of Scotland, they
possess advantages with regards to teinds which no other country in
Christendom enjoy, "As the Church of Christ includes an order
of men who devoted their time and study to the discharge of the duties
of the pastoral office, and who have been expressly educated for that
purpose, they are entitled to a competent maintenance from those
for whose good they labour; and the provision for the clergy of the
Church of Scotland, though inferior to that of other ecclesiastical
establishments, is, on the whole, respectable. The allowance to
the clergy out of the tithes of the parish was at first but scanty,
but their stipends have been gradually augmemted. Indeed, if,
while other orders of men are getting forward, the sitpends of the
ministers of the Established Church had remained stationary, the
accumulation of nation wealth, by relatively sinking those who
minister at the altar into abject poverty, would have rendered them
contemptible, and the Church would have been supplied solely
from the lowest orders of the people. It is a branch of political
wisdom, therefore, to save the Established clergy from this degra-
dation, which would undermine their usefulness, and might render


