
                          BORROWSTOWNNESS.                121

Glour o'er 'em, the surface slopes gradually to the banks of the
Avon, on the south and west. On the north the slope terminates
abruptly in a steep bank, which extends the whole length of the
parish, varying in elevation and in its distance from the shore, and
is beautifully wooded from Kinneil House to the Avon. From
the top of Glour o'er 'em, the admirer of nature may enjoy one of
the finest views in Scotland.

   Meteorology.-The climate, though variable, is remarkably sa-
lubrious.

   Hydrography.-The Frith of Forth is about two miles and a-
half broad between Bo'ness and Culross, and about three miles
broad between the mouth of the Avon and Culross. In the middle
of the channel between these places, the depth is from five to nine
fathoms. Between Bo'ness and Preston Island, the depth is about
four fathoms and a-half, and gradually increases to seventeen and
upwards towards Queensferry. Above Bo'ness the depth of mid-
channel diminishes to three fathoms towards Grangemouth. Pres-
ton Island lies near the north shore; and the south side of the
channel being free from rocks, the navigation is safe, and the an-
chorage is good off the Port of Bo'ness. Between Bo'ness and
Grangemouth the Frith is shallow, and, at ebb-tide, the water re-
cedes to a considerable distance from the shore, leaving a great
extent of muddy surface, through which the stream of the Avon
passes in a channel which is variable. There is a rise of not less
than 25 feet of water in the middle of the Frith at high spring
tides. At Bo'ness it is full and changes about three o'clock; and
it is high water nearly eight minutes later than at Leith.
   The influence of the river Avon, and other tributaries, on the
water of the Frith, is perceptible in the production of salt, as might
be expected from the diminution of specific gravity.
   Specific gravity of surface water, taken from the middle of the
Frith, off Bo'ness, after a long continuation of rain:

<TABLE>
           High water, specific gravity, 1.0206, at 57 1/2ø Fahrenheit.
           Low water, specific gravity, 1.0190, at 57ø Fahrenheit.

   Specific gravity of surface water after a long duration of fair
weather:

           High water, specific gravity, 1.02329, at 56 1/2ø Fahrenheit.
           Low water, specific gravity, 1.02234, at 56 1/2ø Fahrenheit.

   The river Avon, which forms the western boundary of the pa-
rish, and has its sources in the high parts of the parishes of Fal-
kirk and Slamannan, is a considerable stream, having a copious
supply of water, and a considerable fall between Linlithgow Bridge
and its discharge into the Frith.  Several mills have been erected



