
310                       RENFREWSHIRE.

and Sanquhar hills, with others in Kirkcudbrightshire; whilst far
in the distance you have, on a very clear day and in a humid atmo-
sphere, the tops of Skiddaw and Saddleback in Cumberland.  These
are distinctly seen in this state of the atmosphere, through the ravine
which stretches onwards between Tinto and the Cumnock hills.
  Turning to the south-west, a rich and variegated prospect meets
the eye: The pleasure groundsof Eglintoun ; the extended plain
of Ayrshire, with its many noblemen's seats, and princely lawns,
Irvine spire, the Troon and the mouth of Ayr harbour, with the
lands around it; Brown Carrick hill, Lochryan, some of the hills
in Falloway; the mountains of Morn and Newry, in Ireland, and
the beautiful rock of Ailsa standing like a sugar-loaf, in the midst
of the ocean, with the whole sweep of the waters from Donagha-
dee to Irvine harbour.
  In a fine, bright, calm, summer, or autumnal evening, nothing
can surpass the splendour of the scene; especially when there is
added the multitude of fishing-boats plying on its waters and about
its harbours ; the stately steamers going to and returning from
Liverpool, Dublin, and Belfast; and at times the West India fleets,
with all canvas set, hastening to their destined ports.  These, with
the romantic island of Arran, and its lofty Goatfield as a skreen to
it, on the west south-west, form a scene, unparalleled by any with
which we are acquainted, or have ever beheld in Scotland, En-
gland, or Ireland.
  Meteorology.-The temperature of the atmosphere here is, at
all times, very various.  In the parish, there are three distinct cli-
mates, and, therefore, to have an exact account of the weather in
it, an observatory would be necessary in each of them.
  But though we have no public artificial observatory, with its ther-
mometers, to mark the various degrees of heat in the parish, we have
a natural one, which never deceives, viz. the leaf of the poplar tree.
In the neighbourhood of Barrhead, and all the level distrhct around
it on the east, which is the first climate, the weather hs much
milder.  There, the leaf of the poplar appears ten days before it
is seen in the second district, which begins at the parting of the
roads to Neilston and Irvine, a little above Mr Cunningham's re-
servoir, and stretches on to about a mile to the west of Neilston
village; and in the third district, the leaf of the poplar is not
seen for a fortnight after it is out at Neilston.  In all these three
districts, the change of climate is remarkable.  No one ever came


