
			LAURENCEKIRK.                129

	Extent and Boundaries.--The parish extends in length from
west by south to east by north about 4 miles, varying in breadth
from about 3 miles at the western extremity, to less than a mile at
the other, and contains about 8 1/2 square miles. It is situated in
the How of the Mearns, the eastern part of the great valley of
Strathmore, and is bounded on the south-west by Marykirk; on the
south-east by Garvock; and on the north-east and north-west by
Fordoun. The boundary with Garvock is somewhat indistinct, fol-
lowing the line of an old earthen fence, known by the name of the
Rae or Deer Dike, of which many traces are still visible, and which
probably enclosed the forest of Garvock.
	Topographical Appearances, &c,--The figure of the parish is ir-
regular, somewhat resembling, however, that of a triangle. The
greater portion lies on the lower part of the north side of the hill
of Garvock, sloping down to the Luther, and rising again with
a very gradual declivity, on the other side of that stream. In
the north-east corner of the parish, the ground again declines
slightly towards the east, so that the water of what was for-
merly a large morass is divided, and flows, partly westward to the
Luther, and partly eastward to Bervie Water. The Luther thus
divides the parish into two sections, of which the one on the
southern side is intersected longitudinally by the great north road
from Edinburgh to Aberdeen, on each side of which thoroughfare,
in the south-west part of this section, stands the village of Lau-
rencekirk. The whole Parish is rather flat. The Luther is
about 180 feet above the level of the sea; the highest ground in
the northern section about 220; and in the southern, adjoining
Garvock, about 450.
	The temperature of the district on the whole is mild. From ob-
servations, more or less regular, made during a number of years,
the average height of the mercury in a thermometer in the shade
throughout the year, appears to be about 46&deg; at 8 A.M., and
about 45&deg; at 10 P. m. The easterly haars seldom come across
the hill of Garvock; and the cold air of the Grampians is con-
siderably mitigated by the distance of several miles. The pre-
vailing winds are south and south-east. In spring, these winds
are often accompanied by long tracts of dry weather. In summer,
there are frequent south-west winds, which are rather rainy. In

<FOOTNOTE>
years ago, there were dug out in a field there what seemed to be the foundation walls of
such a building. A circular tumulus of rock immediately adjoining is to this day
called the "ChapelKnap;" `nd the "Mill of Conveth," the only place which re-
tains the ancient the name of Conveth, is scarcely  half a mile distant.
    KINCARDINE.					1


