
BURNTISLAND.                              419

with Kirkealdy, Dysart, and Kinghorn, in returning a Member to
Parliament. The number of voters is 48. Within the parliamentary
boundaries, there are 66 persons whose rents in property or tenantry
amount to L. 10 per annuin and upward !s, and of these 35 are bur-
gesses. Within the same boundaries, there are 53 persons whose
rents amount to L. 5, and are under L. 10; and of these 9 are
burgesses. Besides the guildry, amounting to 82, inclusive of 7
non-resident, there are 6 incorporated trades, viz. bammermen,
tailors, weavers, fleshers, shoemakers, bakers. All these corpora-
tions, together with a rather wealthy institution called the Prime-
Guild Society, which consists of ship-owners and others connect-
ed with the sea-faring line, are possessed of seats in the parish
church; and it must be added, that some of these bodies wring out
as high seat rents as possible from the pockets of the parishioners.
A number of seats are also possessed by the town.
Means of Communication.-There is a regular post-office, the
revenue of which amounted, some years ago, to about L. 300; but,
from the decay of trade, is now understood to fall short of that
sum. The communication with Edinburgh, by means of the post,
is twice-a-day. There are about five miles of turnpike road, but
no public carriages travel regularly through any p art of the parish.
The Dundee and Perth coaches come occasionally this way, when
the weatber is too severe to admit of the passengers embarking at
Pettycur. This being one of the stations of the Fife and Mid-
Lothian ferries, there is regular communication by steam with
Newhaven ; but great complaints are nifide ofthe extravagance ofthe
fares, which are 2s. in the cabin, and Is. 6d. steerage,-very high
rates, it must be allowed, for a distance short of six miles. In
addition to the steam-vessels, there are large sailinga-boats which
ply at tide-time every lawful day, and are principally employed in
carrying -aoods, &c.
Harbour, 4c.-The opinion anciently entertained of the excel-
lence of the harbour may be learned from the name" Portusyra-
UT" or " Portus salutis," by which it is designated in someof the
chartersoftbeburgh. Itisstillreekonedthebestinthefrith,being
easily entered, as well as very capacious and secure ; and at full
tide of great depth. Its latitude is 560 30 20', its longitude 30 151.
The distance between the lighthouse on the pier and that on the
Pier at Newhaven is five miles and a third nearly, as found by ac-
Curate observations. In 1833, the vessels belonging to thi& port
were eight, and their tonnage 900#


