
                           TILLICOULTRY.                       67

sloping southwards from the bottom of tile hills to the banks be-
yond the Devon; and then a ridge of rising ground, which runs
parallel with the hills.
   The front hills are, in some places, bold and romantic; but, in
most places, in summer are covered with a beautiful verdure, af-
fording fine pasturage for sheep, as also the back hills, and the
deep winding vales that intervene.
   There are two aspects of the Ochils strikingly grand, from the
number and position of their burns and their glens. The one may
be observed in the summer months, when the shade of night sits
dark oil the mountain's side, contrasting with the clear blue north-
ern sky, seen through the openings, or glens, which, at distances,
not irregular, appear as so many embrasures in the wall of a for-
tification; the other is exhibited in winter, when the snow-clad-
range has its dazzling whiteness relieved by the dark and deep-
worn bed of each tributary rill that hastens to pour its contents
into the Devon below.
   From Bencleuch, the highest of tile Ochils, which is 2300 feet
above the level of the Forth, there is an extensive prospect in
every direction, including the Grampian mountains, the Dundaff,
the Lomond, and Pentland hills.
   Hydrography.--There are many fine springs in the bills,
which, collected in the declivities, form these beautiful burns in-
tersecting the mountain and plain, at once so useful and orna-
mental in this part of, the country. One of these burns, which
forms the boundary with Alva on the west, is beautifully adorned
with wood, and has some fine cascades; another, which is wooded
on both sides, is the boundary with Dollar on the east; and the
gardens of Harviestoun and Tillicoultry have each their mountain.
stream murmuring o'er its pebbled-bed, beautifying and fertilizing
all around. The largest of these rivulets is the burn of Tillicoul-
try, formed by the confluence of Glooming-side burn, and Dai-
glen, two nearly equal streams, -which rise in the middle range, and
the water of which, after forming many a deep poo), well known to
the angler, and dashing impetuous over many a rock, is made, by
the art and industry of man, to turn the machinery of eight large
woollen factories.
  But the Devon, celebrated, by tourists and, poets, is the most re-
markable stream in the parish, which,. rising in the bill behind
Alva, runs in an easterly direction, on the north side of Tillicoul-


