
<APPENDIX>

lxxviii

Mr Charles O'Connor, and dated Ballytra, near Carrick, 25th August 1773.
which, he informed me, was the only one worth preserving in the whole
collection.

   8. Scotland.-The attempts which have been made in Scotland, have been
numerous, but their progress did not justify any very sanguine expectations
of success.
   The first of which we have any account, was an inquiry begun by Sir Ro-
bert Gordon of Straloch, at Bleau's request, for his Atlas Scotiae, printed
anno 1662.  From the answers he received, the description' of several of the
counties were drawn up, both by Sir Robert, and by David Buchanan, on
whom he devolved it; but the troubles during the reign of Charles I. and
the usurpation of Cromwell, prevented them from completing it.
   The next attempt was made by Sir Robert Sibbald, who also circulated
queries, answers to which he requested should either be addressed to himself,
or transmitted to his bookseller.  They principally relate to natural histo-
ry, to the illustration of which, his chief attention was directed.  His Atlas
Scoticus, the result of those inquiries, according to Gough, still exists in
manuscript, in which state it will probably remain*.
   The late Walter Macfarlane, of Macfarlane, left behind him in manu-
script, the Geographical descriptions of many parishes in Scotland, begun
about the year 1722, and continued for several years after+.  Who was the
author of this attempt does not appear; but from a letter, beginning "Reve-
"rend Sir," signed Lud. Grant, dated Fortrose, 14th July 1732, it seems to
have been undertaken by some clergyman++.  The following extract from
Mr Grant's letter, (who was probably minister of Fortrose), it may not be
improper to insert in this place.  "I would have sent you what account
"of the parishes I was acquainted with here, some time ago, had I not ex-
"pected, that some would have lent their helping hand, in describing such
"parishes as occurred to their knowledge; but finding them either shy to
"undertake, or unwilling to put themselves; I thought it proper not to de-
"lay any longer, what I intended to say upon the head; I have sent a de-
"scription of four parishes; since I have now frequent occasion to traverse
"them, and though I did not keep close to the printed direction, yet I
"think the specimen I have given, will furnish you with materials to
"range the bounds and distances, in what order you think fit.  The de-
"sign, in my judgment, is laudable; and would be both diverting and in-

<FOOTNOTE>

*See Gough's Topography, Vol. ii. p. 557, & 558.
+See Vol. i. p. 251.
++Ditto, also p. 307, where there is a letter to the collector of those
accounts, beginning "Reverend and Dear Sir."


