
			PARISH OF SANQUHAR.

	    PRESBYTERY OF PENPONT, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

 	      THE REV. THOMAS MONTGOMERY, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE name Sanquhar is compounded of Caer, signifying
a fort, and Sean, old,--both terms having reference to a fort which
existed here in the ancient British times. This etymology seems more
probable than any other that has been assigned. The original
Sean-caer or chaer, was in the thirteenth century spelt Sene-char
or Sancher, as appears bv the charters of Robert I. and David II.
Afterwards it was changed to Sanquhar.
	Extent, Boundaries.--The parish is about 18 miles in length and
5 in breadth. By exact measurement, it contains 61 1/4 square miles.
It is bounded on the east by the parishes of Crawfurd and Craw-
furdjohn; on the north by Kirkconnel: on the west by Kirkcon-
nel, New Cumnock and Dalry; on the south by Penpont and
Durisdeer.
	Topographical Appearances.--Its figure is very irregular. At
the east corner, is the Lowther or Lodder Hill, 3130 feet above the
level of the sea, and connected by a chain of high hills with Hart-
fell, near Moffat. At the west corner, is Black-larg Hill, 2890 feet
above the sea, and united to a range of high land at the junction
of the counties of Galloway and Ayr. The parish is generally
hilly. It is formed into two divisions, nearly equal, by the river
Nith. Each side of this river is bounded by a range of hills, ris-
ing generally with a gradual declivity. Some of them are covered
with grass and others with heath. The hollow between these two
ranges of hills forms a vale of very considerable beauty, extending
in length about five miles. The prevailing winds are from the west
and south; and with these the greatest quantity of rain falls. The
climate is cold but healthy.
	Rivers.--The Nith is the principal river in the parish. The
tributary streams which flow into it in this parish are the Crawick
and Menock on the north and east; the Killoe and Seuchan on
the west and south.
	DUMFRIES.



