
			KILBRIDE.			   37

	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of paupers,
who receive regular parochial aid, is 50; among whom is distri-
buted annually 1the sum of L. 60. They receive their respective
allowance quarterly, in sums which vary from 3s. to 12s. to each,
according to their several necessities. The average number of
occasional paupers cannot be easily stated; very few applying to
the session for aid, except persons who wish to be placed regularly
upon the roll. Taking the average of the last seven years, the
amount of the church collections, including dues for morecloth and
marriage proclamations, has been L. 46, 11s, 3 3/4d. The kirk-ses-
sion has a small capital arising, from bequest lying at interest in
Irvine Bank. Its present amount is L. 100; but it is yearly de-
creasing, as the quarterly distributions in winter and spring con-
siderably exceed the amount of the church collections at those sea-
sons of the year. A number of the more destitute of the paupers re-
ceive small pensions from His Grace the Duke of Hamilton. The
amount of the pensions varies from L. 1 to L. 2 per annum; and
the majority of them is bestowed upon old men, and poor widows
of good moral character. The sum distributed among them at
the last annual term was L. 63, 11s. Paupers have generally
speaking lost much of the reluctance to appear on the session-roll
which they at one time manifested; and many of them are cla-
morous for additions to their allowances. But none ever make ap-
plication except persons really in destitute circumstances, and un-
equal to their own support; and such applicants would be greatly
more numerous, and a heavier burden on the fund, were it not for
the forward and liberal charity of neighbours and relations; many
of whom are themselves in circumstances little elevated above the
object of their willing bounty.
	Inns and Alehouses--There are six public-houses in the pa-
rish; of which three are at Lamlash; two at Brodick; and one at
Corrie. The largest of these is the inn summer by visitors to the
Island of Arran. By its present respectable occupants, it is ex-
ceedingly well kept; and no person leaves it without being grati-
fied by the assiduor attentions of its inches. The other houses
though smaller, are very neat and clean, and occupied by families
of respectable character and conduct. Their number, however
might be reduced, especially at Island, to the obvious benefit
the morals of the people, and without any undue encroachment
on the accomodation required for strangers. But the houses which


