
	                     UDNY.	                          133

<TABLE>
   Number of families in the parish in 1831,         .        .    263
                      chiefly employed in agriculture,             192
	                      trade, manufactures, or handicraft,     29
   Number of persons under 15 gears of age,    .        .          254
     	              betwixt 15 and 30,        .         .       .  530
                            30 and 50,       .        .        .   350
                            50 and 70,     .     .         .       176
	               upwards of 70,      .    .      .       .      17

   There are 8 proprietors of land in the parish having above
L.50 of yearly rent, but none of them resident.
   There are 2 insane, and 2 fatuous persons in the parish.
   Number of illegitimate births during the last three years, 12.

                              IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-

<TABLE>
       Acres in cultivation, about   .      .      .        7500
            not susceptible of cultivation,    .     .       400
            susceptible of cultivation hot not cultivated, . 150

   About 60 `cres may be supposed to fall to Hillbrae, in the
parish of Udny, of an undivided common between Udny, Belhelvie,
and Foveran, called Faichside.  About 270 acres are planted,
chiefly with fir.  About ninety years ago, Mains of Udny, being
the lands about Udny Castle, were tastefully laid out in square
fields, averaging about 16 acres, and divided by lanes, all planted
with four rows of beech and elm, and a hawthorn hedge next the
fields.  The hedges are all decayed, and the two inner rows of
trees were cut down about forty years ago.  The outer rows have
attained a considerable size, and give the place, at a distance, the
appearance of a close wood, and the castle appears to advantage
in the centre.
   Rent.-The rent of land is a trifle under L.1 Sterling an impe-
rial acre.
   Live-Stock.-Much attention has been paid of late to the im-
provement of cattle, by importing breeds from Kirkcudbright and
Durham; but the Aberdeenshire breed, mostly black without
horns, suit the country best, as they thrive upon interior keep.
Rearing cattle is more advantageous than raising grain.
   Draining.-Though much has been done by draining, yet no
branch of improvement has been less attended to.  The drains
are seldom cut deep enough.  This is principally owing to the
open ditches, or water tracks, not being cut to a sufficient depth
to admht the water from the drains on either side of the ditch.
Seldom are either the ditches or drains cut deeper than three feet,
or three feet and a half, whereas the diches should never be less
than seven feet, and the drains about five feet and a half deep.


