
110                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

rigold (Calthapalustris,) and queen of the meadows (Spircea ulmaria);
also ferns or braken in dry deep lands, and the sloe and bramble,
which ought to be rooted out frol all sheep-walks.  One of the most
pernicious weeds in this parish is the great white ox eye (Chrysan-
themum Leucanthemum,) which, though an herb, is perennial, and
very pernicious when allowed to establish itself.  Thistles, docks,
mugwort, and other perennial weeds have been mostly extirpated,
and so have some of the worst annuals, as common gule, wild skale,
and spurry; but corn chamomile still appears occasionally in the
fields, and is mistaken for the great white ox eye; and still we see a
few plants of corn-cockle and wild mustard in the cultivated lands,
--while other weeds infest the meadows and pastures.  It would
be of importance for every farmer to possess a short and practical
manual containing a description of these and other weeds, and of
the best mode of destroying them.
     The cultivated crops of corn are wheat on a small scale, barley,
and the best varieties of common and early oats; bear is hardly sown
as a crop now, and rye is not sown at all.
     Of natural woods in a parish that was, at one period, richly wood-
ed, there are now very scanty remains at Craigieburn, and in a few
other places.  The oak, the ash, the birch, the hazel, and the moun-
tain ash, grow spontaneously; but the interest of those connected
with the soil included them to cut down the more valuable trees;
and their stoles not being protected, they died out.  To compen-
sate for this, in some degree, persons of public spirit formed plan-
tations of forest trees; and among those who did most in this way
were John Earl of Hopetoun, and Sir George Clerk Maxwell,
about sixty years ago.  The trees planted by them have prospered
well, and have now arrived at considerable maturity.  More recent
plantations have, therefore, been encouraged, and these have been
made by the late James Earl of Hopetoun and his representatives;
by Dr Rogerson of Dumcrieff, and other gentlemen; and these
plantations have prospered well, and have paid reasonably in cut-
tings and thinnings, with the prospect of the timber also doing well.
The ash loses elasticity and value when suffered to be too aged
before cutting, the stoles also not rising from the root; and even
the oak, when not thriving, is apt to get spotted in the timber, and
should be cut down.  The Scots fir cannot be expected to lay on red
heart-wood, unless allowed to stand well on to 100 years.  No tree
is so useful and valuable as the Scots elm; and none comes earlier


