
204                          ARGYLESHIRE.

   I have already mentioned that there is no fish fit for use in our
fresh water lakes.  The kinds of fish which are chiefly caught,
and of most importance in an economical point of view, are, cod,
ling, skate, lythe, gurnet, saithe, or grey fish, and turbot, which
last is found but rarely. *  The shell-fish most deserving of notice
are, lobsters, crabs, or partans, cockles, lampets, (a kind of shell-
fish which adheres very closely, and seems glued, as it were, to
the rocks), mussels, and razor-fish.  These are found and used
in considerable quantities; and during seasons of particular scar-
city, they have sometimes contributed in a considerable degree
to the support of life among the poorer classes.  The shells of
some of them are also converted into lime by calcination, and make
very fine white plaster.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-The parish register of Tiree extends
back only to 1775, the earliest entry being dated 16th January
of that year.  It appears, from some written document, that all
the parish records previous to that period were sent to Edinburgh,
in order to ascertain certain disputed dates relative to a legal
process then carrying on, andmere lost, or at least never re-
turned.  They do not seem to have been very regularly kept till
1814.
   Antiquities.-Tiree was formerly a part of the lands pertaining
to the clan M'Lean, having been anciently granted to them, as
is supposed, by the Lord of the Isles; and that name is still one
of the most common in the island.  It fell into the possession of
the family of Argyle in the year 1674, at which time its annual
rent was L.1565, 13s. 4d. Scots money, besides some other bur-
dens payable in produce, and usual in these days.  Since that
period, the Earl or Duke of Argyle has been the sole proprietor.
There are some plans or surveys of the island, which are in pos-
session of his Grace's chamberlain.
   There are several remains of antiquity still to be met

<FOOTNOTE>There is a kind of fish which was formerly pretty often seen on this coast, but
seems for the last thirty or forty years to have almost entirely disappeared.  I am
not sure of its proper or scientific name, but it is frequently known by the name of
the sun-fish or basking shark, from its practice of floating at the surface of the wa-
ter during warm weather or sunshine.  In Gaelic it is termed "Cearban."  These
were caught with harpoons and lines in somewhat the same style as the Greenland
whale, and were valuable for the quantity of oil extracted form their liver.  I recollect
when a boy, seeing one of them taken, not reckoned a large one, the liver of which
filled eight barrels, and might have been estimated at L.25.  Since that period I
have only seen only one of them, (about four or five years ago), which was amusing itself
during the greater part of a day in the bay oppposite to the manse.


