
174                     ARGYLESHIRE.

He loves to wander forth and to revisit the scenes of his youth,
while his good intentions of returning are frustrated by the un-
sparing terriers, which, regardless of the insignia of distinction by
which he is usually decorated, think him fair game when found
on the mountain, with whatever restrained courtesy they may have
treated him at home.  Efforts have also been made to gain upon
the surly wild cat, but in vain.  The first peep of his kitten eye
is an averted look of fraud and fierceness, and be remains a surly
wild cat to the end, making every advance with a seeming reser-
vation of displaying, when he pleases, his natural ferocity.  Of
all pets, perhaps the otter is the most useful, if not the most in-
teresting.  An old respectable person, who some years ago rent-
ed the ferry and small inn of Lochalin, had succeeded wonder-
fully in training a magpie, which repaid the expenses of her edu-
cation, by not unfrequently subjecting her preceptor to the very
unnecessary trouble of paddling to the opposite shore, where, in
place of the expected passenger, he found his docile pupil perched
upon a rock, chuckling with hearty mirth at the success of her
imitations.  The same individual caught an otter, which, in a
short time, became the most expert fisher on the coast, reserving,
of course, as is the wont of all fishers, a sufficiency for self-con-
sumption.  Luxury, however, exercised its enfeebling influence.
The otter became unduly fond of comfort, and, upon a certain
unhappy night, would insist on sharing with a sturdy Barra fish-
erman, who had taken up big abode in the house, the comforts of
a Highland blanket.  An affray, it is said a desperate one, ensued.
The otter was not at the time the greatest sufferer, but unfortu-
nately afterwards forfeited its life to appease the wrath of the of-
fended Isles' man. *

<FOOTNOTE>The country abounds in many anecdotes illustrative of the instinct of the sheep
and terrier dog ; but, under no training.  perhaps have these valuable animals exhi-
bited greaser sagacity than under the discipline of a poor enthusiastic lover of their
race, well known in the district by the name of Alla-nan-Conn.  Allan, in early
life, had exhibited dog-stealing and other accompanying propensities; but, being a
tall and active, though a gaunt and peculiar-looking person, he was received as a
regimental recruit at a time when the only indispensable qualification was, in High-
land phrase " fitness to cover a battle-field ans drown a bullet."  He was conveyed
in Stirling, and paraded for inspection.  A Highland officer of some rank, who hap-
pened to be going the rounds, recognized him as an old acquaintance, but Allan signi-
ficantly declined Any farther conference till the muster was over.  The inspectong of-
ficer. the late Sir Ralph Abercromby, it is said, took his rounds,  Alla, who had
got a hint from some of his commands to look fierce at him as he passed.  drew him-
self up to the full height of his stature and snowled fiercely, on which the officer in
question characterised him as a " fine erect looking fellow."  He did not, however,
long relish the restraints of a military life; and, though not till the impression of his
being more rogue than fool had been somewhat severely tested, he returned home
from London, like many other travellers, not much wiser than when he went abroad.


