
                            CRICHTON.                               57

east through the county of Haddington, and, joined by its tributaries,
falls, into the sea near Dunbar.
   In the lower district of the parish, a great part of the land is of a
good deep soil, capable of producing excellent crops, while the
rest of it is dry and sharp, and well adapted for turnip husbandry,
which carried on to a very considerable extent in this neigh-
bourhood. In the upper part of the parish, the soil is much in-
ferior, consisting chiefly of a thin moss upon a wet soft stand
or clay bottom. Towards the east of this tract, however, the land
again gradually improves," and, under a judicious system of manage-
ment, is now producing crops which may almost vie with those of
the more inland parts of the parish.
   Wood to a great extent has been grown and cut down in the
neighbourhood; excellent specimens of which are still standing
round the mansion house of Crichton. Belts of fir encircle, the
high grounds,-which give an agreeably sheltered appearance
to that part of the parish, and, in fact, are strikingly ornamental to
the aspect of the country.
   In the little glen which the Castle of Crichton overhangs,
great numbers of glow-worms are to be met with in summer; and
if the admirer of these beautiful creatures would visit this spot-in
the twilight of the evenings, in the months of July and August,
he would find himself amply rewarded, in the brilliant display of
shining lamps which the little illuminati of the glen are ever and
anon beaming out around him. The month of July seems to be
the period when the lights which they emit are the mostly striking
and beautiful. After that time they gradually become fainter,
and towards the end of August and beginning of September, are
extinguished for the season.
                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The estate of Crichton, possessed by William Bum Callen-
der, Esq. comprehends by far the greatest part of the parish. The
mansion, house of the property has been long exchanged by the
successive proprietors, for the very handsome residence of Preston-
hall, in the neighbouring parish of Cranston. It is worthy of re-
mark, that the garden attached to Crichton House was the first
in Scotland, into which the present improved system of horticulture
was introduced.
   Besides that of Crichton, there are several smaller properties in
the parish; Costerton, belonging to the late Rev. Francis Nicoll,
D.D. Principal of the United College, St Andrews; Blackcastle,


