
258  		 KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

met with in the Urr are trout and pike, and the lakes furnish
perch and eels.
	Woods.--There are no woods of an extent within the parish.
Along the banks of the river are the remains of a natural forest,
which the successive encroachments of modern agriculture have
reduced to very scanty dimensions, but which still add greatly
to the picturesque beauties of this romantic stream.

             	  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	The secluded character of this parish has prevented it from
ever becoming the scene of important historical events. During
that dark period of Scottish history, however, which elapsed while
the second Charles and his successor werd endeavouring to bind
the yoke of despotism arotnd the necks of their northern subjects,
we find its inhabitants inspired by the same ardent zeal which dis-
tinguished their countrymen in the noble cause of religious and
civil liberty, and more than one martyr's tomb in the neighbour-
hood still recalls to the patriot the time, when, upon these fields,
the cause of Scotland's freedom was contested.  Mr Gabriel
Semple, of the family of Cathcart in Renfrewshire, the outed mi-
nister of this parish, was one of the distinguished witnesses for the
truth which that remarkable age produced.  Some interesting
particulars of his  life are detailed in Wodrow's Church History,
and, Murray's Literary History of Galloway. He lived to see the
completion of his most ardent wishes at the glorious Revolution
of 1688, when be was recalled to Scotland, and chosen to the pas-
toral care of the parish of Jedburgh, where he continued, in the
zealous discharge of the duties of his office till the year 1706, when
he died at a very venerable age.
	Antiquities.--This parish presents but a barren  field for anti-
quarian research. In various quarters there are the remains of
circular walls and mounds, which in this district, and throughout
the Stewartry where they abound, have received the name of moats.
What these have been, or for what purposes erected, cannot at
this remote period bd distinctly ascertained. Certain it is, that,
ar places of strength, none.of them, even when in their most per-
feet state, could have long resisted the effects of a cannonade,
whence it may be argued that their origin ought to be referred
to a period prior to the general use of fire-arms. That they are
to, be traced to the Roman invaders seems highly improbable,
both from their number and peculiar form, while the idea that
they are Druidical remains, is for similar reasons, equally unte-


