
                           EDINBURGH.                               699

ciation of artists was formed in 1826, and a rival exhibition opened in
the Waterloo Rooms in 1827. For several years, this Association con-
tinued to have annual exhibitions, which were well attended; and
pictures were sold to a considerable amount. Almost the whole of
the artists ultimately joined this new academy, and in 1838 they
were incorporated by royal charter under the name of the Royal
Scottish Academy of Painting and Sculpture. It consists of thirty-
five academicians and twelve associates, is conducted by a pre-
sident, council, and secretary, and has an annual exhibition of paint-
ings, open to all living artists, in the rooms of the Royal Institu-
tion.
   Royal Institution.-The Board of Commissioners, Trustees for the
Encouragement of Manufactories, Fisheries, and the Arts in Sea-
land.-This Board had its origin at the period of the Union of the
two kingdoms. By a part of the 15th article of the Treaty
of Union, (22d July 1706, 5th Anne, c. 8), it is agreed that
L. 2000 Sterling per annum, for the space of seven years, shall
be applied towards encouraging and promoting the manufacture
of coarse wool, within those shires in Scotland which produce the
wool; and that the first L. 2000 Sterling be paid at Martinmas
next, and so yearly at Martinmas during the space aforesaid; and
afterwards, the same shall be wholly applied towards the encourag-
ing and promoting the fisheries and such other manufactures and
improvements in Scotland as may conduce to the general good of
the united kingdoms. This may be considered as Scotland's grand
charter of right to the annual sum which she has since received
for the encouragement of her manufactures, out of the national
funds, and which cannot be take away without a direct infringe-
ment of the Treaty of Union.
   In 1718, seventeen years after the above treaty, by the act 5th
George I. c. 120, it is provided that the said sum of L. 2000 per an-
num shall continue and be payable for ever, and shall be paid or
payable at the four most usual feasts in the year, by even and equal
portions; and by 14th clause of the same act, it is enacted and de-
clared, by the authority aforesaid, that the same shall be wholly ap-
plied towards the encouraging and promoting the fisheries, and such
other manufactures and improvements in Scotland as may most con-
duce to the general good of the united kingdom, according to the te-
nor and true meaning of the said 15th article of the said, Treaty of
Union, and to none other use, interest, or purpose whatever. And
by the 15th section of the same act it is further provided, that


