
            122                          ORKNEY.

            the oil they produce, is the fry of the coal-fish, which is taken here
            in immense quantities by the people, standing upon the rocks by
            the water's edge, with nets made in the form of a parachute or um-
            brella suspended from the top of a long pole, and thereby let down
            into the sea.
               Botany.-There is, at least, one rare plant of the floral kind
 	    that grows here. It is the bird's-eye primrose. It shoots up its
	    gentle form in the most barren and naked spots. Indeed, it is
            never seen here in any other soil but the barren and the waste.
            The common primrose is also seen plentiful in its season, growing
            by the mountain side or by the brink of the streamlet. On our
            shores, the sea-pink abounds, and the cowslip covers as with a mantle
            of yellow the declivities of the elevated and rocky grounds, in al-
            most every quarter of the island. The queen-of-the-meadow, too,
            appears in our fens, and copiously impregnates the surrounding air
            with its delicious odour; and the daisy enamels our plains and pas-
            ture grounds as richly, perhaps, as in any other part of the world.
            In this brief catalogue, the craw-flower and blue violet also
            merit a place, being seen plentifully here, interspersed among nu-
            merous other indigenous plants. The following are a few that
            are deemed medical, viz. tussilago, marsh-mallow, poppy, scurvy-
            grass, foxglove, nightshade, with a great variety of the wort kind.

				   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
                      Only one ancient author, Jo Ben, touches a little on this island.
            As his account is succinct and interesting, it may not, perhaps, be
            improper to give it a place here. " Of all the islands in Orkney,
            Westray is the most fertile. Here the better sort of people (ge-
            nera nobilium) make their residence. Here is an excellent fort,
            (meaning Noltland Castle,) not yet finished. Here the peasants
            or country people, (agricolae,) had of old a terrible battle with the
            Hybernians or Lewismen, which being routed, were all put to the
            sword. One individual, however, more gallant and robust, emi-
            nently distinguished himself, fighting after the rest of his compa-
            nions were destroyed. Having had both his legs cut off below the
            hams, he was seen in the affray, upon his stumps, bravely defend-
            ing himself." And tradition adds, that in this posture, with his
            back supported by a huge rock, to this day called the Highland-
            man's hammer, he did no little execution about him, until, over-
            powered by numbers, he was, forced with violence against the rock
            and slain.


