
542                         FORFARSHIRE.

of one venerable plane, which still marks the site. It sdels pro-
bable that this was the church of Strathdichty granted with Mo-
nifieth to Arboath by Gilbert, Earl of Angus, as above-men-
tioned; and if so, it is doubtless the same as appears on the par-
ish of Strahectin.-4. Kingennie, in the northern district of the
present parish, is also mentioned in the same roll as one of the thirty-
four churches belonging to the Abbey. The Ruinous remains of
it were removed about twelve years ago, during repairs made on
the farm steading and stackyard now occupying its site. To these
four might be added a fifth, once situated in a field at Ethie-
beaton, known by the name of "Chapel Dockie." Perhaps, how-
ever, this may have been only a private place of worship attached
to the castle which anciently stood here, and which tradition con-
nects with the name of Cardinal Beaton. When these four re-
ligous houses were united into one parish, has not been ascer-
tained, further than that it must have been before the Reformation
in 1560.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers have, with some
exceptions, been regularly kept for a period of 282 years;-in
short, they commence at the date of the Reformation. They con-
sist of twelve large volumes,-one containing the sessional records
of about twenty years near the beginning of last century, having
been lost, though referred that the oldest vnltme is considerably da-
maged in some places, and several leaves are wanting. The ear-
liest separate register of births and marriages are regurly engrossed
in the weekly record of sessional proceedings.
	This curios archieve commences with a title which is much tat-
tered; but the first entry is partly legible, as follows: "In Apryll
ye vi day, 1560, The qlk day, it is appyntit yt our assemblie of
ye kyrk of Monefut......Sonday at twa efternun at ye kyrk
wt prayer unto God for his assistans........to do qt may
be fordrans to his gloir, and subpressing of Satan and......"
It will be observed, that the tenor of this contury is similar to that
of the bond executed at Perth in the previous year by the reform-
ing congregations of Perth, Fife, Angus, and Mearns,-among
which, it will be remebered, that the congregations in and about
Dundee are specially mentioned by historians. It would appear
also, that the zeal of the people had been directed against the edi-


