
   160                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   of the sea, forming safe and commodious harbours, and supplying
   shelter and safety to the weather-beaten ship and to the storm-
   weary sailor.
     Within this rangge, towards the west, is a large extent of soft,
   deep, barren moor, intersected in every direction by fresh water
   lakes of several miles in length. Farther on still, in the, same di-
   rection, another less regular range of hills, of no great height
   arises covered with heath and some coarse pasture; and beyond, is
   a thin black moor, covering hard gravel, and occasionally inter-
   spersed with flats and meadows. Next to this, still to the west,
   is the part principally appropriated to pasture and culture, which
   exhibits a striking contrast to the barren, boggy, and useless scene
   behind.
     With the exception of a few bold rocky headlands, the west
   coast is all along bounded with light white sands, chiefly formed
   of shells, crumbled and pounded by the irresistible force of the
   Atlantic waves, gathering strength as they uninterruptedly roll their
   magnificent, awfully grand, and incalculable force upon the shores.
   The sand, or rather shells, thus literallyground to beautiful fineness,
   is, when dry, wafted by the winds into the interior of the country
   to a very considerable distance; and possessing the qualities of
   lime, it adds much to the productive qualities and the beauty
   of the belt over which it extends. This belt which, generally
   speaking, is the only cultivated part of the west side, is ex-
   ceedingly beautiful and pleasant in the summer and autumn
   months. If these seasons be accompanied with warnith and mois-
   ture, this part yields the richest pasture of white and red clover,
   and other plants and herbs delighting in dry sandy situations. It
   also yields luxuriant crops of barley or bear, and, tinder proper
   management,'grain crops of every description. In dry seasons,
   however, by the beat of the sand, the grass becomes sickly, witber-
   ed, and of a burnt appearance; the crops on the machirs, a term
   used for sandy soil, fail; and vegetation appears almost destroyed.
   Although, during a favourable summer season, the country exhibits
   a delightful prospect of beauty and luxuriance, the scene is totally
   changed during the winter and spring months. Without high
   hills, and destitute of trees to shelter from the tremendous gales
   which during these seasons prevail, bare and unprotected, the
   face of the country lies exposed to their influence. The finer,
   the softer, the more tender, and the more valuable grasses are
   melted away by the rain, the frost, and storms ; and the cattle, at


