
                            ERROL.                                    367

	usually taught, such as English reading, English grammar, geogra-
	phy, arithmetic, Latin, &c. on the most approved methods.  The
	schoolmaster has the highest salary allowed by law, and a house
	and garden of such value as to entitle him to a vote in the county.
	He is allowed L. 5 annually as clerk of session, and for collecting
	and distributing the poor's money, and may realize about L. 25 per
	annum from the school fees.
	   The people of the parish seem to be feelingly alive to the bene-
	fits of education.  There is none of them but can read and write,
	and go through the simple ruler of arithmetic.  The children are
	sent to school at a very early period, and the fees are made low
	for their accommodation.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor upon the list
	is commonly about 8, who receive each at an average 2s. pdr week,
	and l0s. per annum for coals, and L. I per annum for house rent.
	There are others, however, who occasionally receive small dona-
	tions to assist them in exigencies, and to prevent them from be-
	coming regular paupers.  As the collection at the chuch is extremely
	inconsiderable, as well as the other funds, an assessment is laid
	upon the parish according to law, to make up the sum that may
	be required.  The amount of church collections for the poor is
	about L. 5 per annum; from assessment, L. 35.  The poor have
	also the benefit of the interest of L. 150 lodged in the hands of
	the kirk-session.
            November 1837.


                    PARISH OF ERROL.

            PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLINC.

                    THE REV. JAMES GRIERSON, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
           Name.-THE most ancient form in which the name of this pa-
	rish appears in the records, is Arroll, although at a very early pe-
	riod we also find it written Erroll.  These two different forms of its
	orthography continued to be used indiscriminately, till the end of the
	seventeenth century. The name is now written Errol, and is pro-
	bably derived from the Gaelic word Ear-iul, which signifies,
	Eastern landmark, -a designation which the place might very na-




