
     Statistical Account

   Yearly average, taking only the persons residing
in the parish, and supporting 5 persons carried out of   
it in the course of 10 years,                            42. 6/10

   It would appear, that the population of the parish had
increased very fast towards the beginning of the present
century.  But for a good many years past, it seems to
have decreased; the return to Dr Webster, in 1755, a-
mounting to 2540 souls.  The army, navy, and diffe-
rent pursuits in life, carry away many young men; and
this, as it prevents the increase of population, is likewise
the reason, why the number of females is so much greater
than that of the males, although the births of the latter ex-
ceed those of the former.

   Ecclesiastical State *.-The right of patronage, by a grant
from the Crown, is now vested in the Earl of Craufurd, who

<FOOTNOTE>

*Ceres parish is a rectory, which, before the Reformation, belonged to
the provestry of Kirkheugh, a religious house at St Andrew's some re-
mains of which are still to be seen, immediately above the barbour, on the 
west, and separated from the Abbay wall by a deep hollow way.  A consi-
derable part of the east end of the parish formerly belonged to the parish
of St Andrew's, and about the year 1620, was annexed to the parish of
Ceres, quoad sactra tantum.  The church is a very old fabric, to which
great additions have been made at different times.  At some remote pe-
riod, an aile has been conjoined to it, on the east end, by the family of
Craufurd, and still continues to be their exclusive property.  An aile has
also been conjoined on the south, which is the exclusive property of the
Hon. John Hope of Craighall.   This, before the Reformation, was a cha-
pel dedicated to St Ninian, and the schoolmaster of Ceres, whose place is
in the gift of Mr Hope, receives a presentation to be chaplain of the cha-
pel of St Ninian, founded within the church of Ceres, and to be reader
of that parish.  A small salary of L. 3 Scotch was payable in former times
to the chaplain, from certain houses in Cupar, but these houses cannot now
be discovered, and the chaplainry has become a title without a benefica-
ls the year 1722, on account of the increased population of the parish, a


