
174                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

church affords accommodation for only 400; the population being
nearly 1300. It is most inconvenient in point of shape, being
nearly 80 feet long, and from 17 to 20 broad. But, as this goes to
press, the heritors have given their consent to the erection of a new
church, which, it is hoped, will be commenced early in spring. The
heritors have lately provided liberally for the accommodation of the
minister, by repairing and building a large addition to the old manse
(built in 1788,) and it is now a very commodious and even hand-
some building. The glebe is generally considered to consist of
from 18 to 20 acres, about one-half of which is excellent land. The
amount of stipend is 14 chalders, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion
elements. Mr Wauchope of Niddrie is patron. The last aug-
mentation was granted in 1820. The valued rent of the parish is
L. 7049, 13s. 4d. Scots.
   There are two dissenting chapels in the parish, both of which are
in Town Yetholm. One belongs to the Old Light Burghers, the
other to the United Associate Synod. Both have been built within
the last fifty years. The ministers are paid from the seat rents and
collections, the one being promised, I believe, L. 70, the other
L. 108 annually. Of old and young in the parish, 888 may belong
to the Established church; and the number of Dissenters may be
about 412. The number of communicants at the Established
church in July last was 460. Of these, however, several are from
England. The church is remarkably well attended, and the people
generally are attentive to the public ordinances of religion. One
probable cause of the number of Dissenters may be the want of ac-
commodation in the parish church.
   Education.-The parish school-house, erected in 1823, is, with-
out exception, the handsomest building of the kind in the county.
It is attended by 100 scholars; and the amount of the teacher's
fees may be L. 30 a-year; but be has also L. 6 as clerk to the
heritors. There are also two unendowed schools in the pa-
rish; one in Town and the other in Kirk Yetholm. The num-
ber attending each may be from 60 to 80. Several of these
children attend from the borders. The salary of the parochial
teacher is the maximum, or two chalders of oatmeal. The fees at
all the schools per quarter are, for reading, 2s. 6d.; for reading
and writing, 3s.; for reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3s. 6d.; for
Latin, Greek, practical mathematics, and geography, 10s. 6d.
Latin and Greek are not taught in the private schools.
   The total number of scholars at all the schools in the parish is



