
542                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

guished soldier, and acted with great success against the Spaniards.
He accompanied the Royal family to the Brazils, where he died
in 1809.
   John Forbes, Esq.-Mr Forbes was born at Bellabeg in September,
1743.  In early life he went to Bombay, and engaged in mercantile
pursuits.  His talents for business at indomitable probity and virtue
speedily laid the foundation of that distinction which his name af-
terwards attained in all the three presidencies.  His enlightened
views led him to embark in a field of commercial enterprize of vast
magnitude, from which he realized a large fortune.  The mercan-
tile house be established at Bombay became of distinguished emi-
nence, and still bears his name.  Mr Forbes was a quick discerner
of character, and to the deserving proved a stedfast friend and ge-
rierous benefactor.  From his innate goodness of heart, he took
a warm interest in the young men recommended to his attention,
and delighted to exercise the extensive influence he possessed in
forwarding their views.  The paternal Counsel he gave at the out-
set of life, and the benevolent assistance he afforded by pecuniary
advances, are still gratefully remembered by many now retired
upon their fortunes.  Mr Forbes repurchased Newe, the estate of
his ancestors, besides other extensive property in Strathdon, and
from that era in reality commenced the improvement of the coun-
try.  The whole rental of his estates was laid out in carrying for-
ward this great object,-but the nature of these improvements will
more properly fall to be noticed afterwards.
   But the character of Mr Forbes was pre-minently distinguished
for a spirit of philanthropy and Christian charity, founded on ge-
nuine and simple piety.  His private beneficence, both in India
and at home, was almost unbounded, and his munificent donations
to public, charities, amongst others that of L. 10,000 to the Aber-
deen Asylum, and L. 1000 to the Infirmary, are well known.  A
handsome monumernt in Aberdeen to his memory testifies the gra-
titude of its inhabitants.
   Sir Charles Forbes, Bart.-Mr Forbes died in 1821, and his
estates descended to his nephew, Sir Charles Forbes, Bart.  He
also in early life went to India, returned to England in 1812, and
in 1823, was created a Baronet of the united kingdom.  He sat
in Parliament for upwards of twenty years, steadily advocating the
cause of the native Indian, and although now retired from Par-
liamentary duty, the energies of his mind are still untiringly de-
voted to the amelioration of British India.  Twenty-eight years


