
848                              PERTHSHIRE.

ries have been proposed.  O'Brian has recently drawn much at-
tention to this class of antiquities.   The theory which be endea-
vours to establish is, that the round towers of Ireland and Scot-
land are; by much; the earliest buildings we possess, dating their
existence before the Christian era, and owing their origin to ori-
eutal idolatry, being the temples of the Buddhist worshippers.
This theory seems to derive much weight from the arguments ad-
duced in its support by the most recent and brilliant historiogra-
pher of Ireland, as well as the learned writer of the Pictorial His-
tory nf England.  Among those who ascribe the circular tower to
Pictish and Christian times, some conceive that it was Dot only
connected with ecclesiastical purposes, but was also designed as a
place of sepulture for the Pictish kings, during the period Aber-
nethy continued to be the capitol of their kingdom.  A few months
ago, the public attention was directed, through the newspaper
press, to the discovery of a human skeleton within the basement
of the round tower of Ardmore, in the county of Waterford.  In
the process of digging within this tower, there was found, first, a
layer of large stones, then a perfectly smooth surface of mortar,
and beneath this a bed of mould, in which, at the depth of some
feet, a skeleton was discovered lyng, from east to west.  After
seeing this statement, the writer of this report had a communica-
tion with the proprietor of Ardmore, and also with Mr Windele,
the secretary of the South Munster Antiquarian Society.
  It would appear from these communications, that the subject of
round towers, which are numerous in Ireland, occupies at present
much attention ; and that, with a view to throw light on the origin
tied uses of this class of antiquities, some of these towers have
been particularly examined by competent judges.  One of the re-
sults of their investigation has been to prove, that they were gdne-
rally used as places of sepulture.  Evidences of this fact have been
found in the round towers not only of Ardmore, but of Ram Island
and Timahoe, and latterly in the tower of Cloye.
  Of the operations in this lasf place, the writer has received from
Mt Windele the account which follows : " In September 1841,
the workmen under the superintendence of Mr William Hackett,
after penetrating through about two feet; of rubbish, reached a solid
floor, about a foot in thickness, formed of small stones laid in
gravel, so firmly bedded as to yield only to repeated efford with
the crow-bar and pickaxes Under this the found, within a space
of six feet diameter, a stratul, of earth mould, in which were dis,

					4


