
     Statistical Account

sheep.  The bad consequences of improper burning are now
felt, and likely to be put a stop to by the proprietors^.  Swine
are never kept here but by millers, who dispose of the refuse
of the grain from there mills in feeding them.  We have a
good many markets round the country, at from 4 and 5, to
12 and 14 miles distances where lean cattle are bought up by
drovers, principally from the South countrys, and all for the
southern markets.  Horses are likewise bought and sold in
these markets, as well as lean sheep.  The Aberdeen butch-
ers, in the autumn, buy the best grass-fed wedders, at from
10 s. 6 d. to 12 s.; but few if any cattle are selled here for
the shambles, as either by combinations among the butchers,
or for some other cause, the price given by them is very low,
and full 30 per cent. under that given in Angus.  There were
anciently weekly markets held at Meiklendovie, in this pa-
rish, and great yearly fairs at that place, and Kirkton of Al-
ford.  Those at Meiklendovie have been discontinued for
many years; but there are still three fairs at the Kirkton, for
the sale of cattle, horses, sheep, etc. and small wares; but
they are of no great consequence.
   The general manure in this county, is stable and byre
dung, which the common farmers mix up with a consider-
able quantity of muckfail or clay.  The muckfail is very poor
turf, cut up in the nearest muir, a practice which was once
in vogue, in every quarter of Scotland; and which is still
looked upon in this country as a most important article in
husbandry, and occupies a great deal of time.  Where good
clay is to be had, it is used in preference to the muirish
sward; and it is certainly much better, though our in-field
lands,

<FOOTNOTE>

^There are many laws, respecting the burning of heath grounds.  They
are all intended with a view to protect the game; but if they were chiefly
enforced, they would be advantageous to sheep, though the ground cannot al-
ways be burned in proper season.


