
   164                     GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

   moist a climate as that of Shetland, much nourishing matter, hav-
   ing become soluble by fermentation, may be exhausted.  Nothing
   can be simpler or more certain than hay-making, if the circum-
   stances that produce malting be avoided.  A good deal of coarse
   bay, known by the vernacular name of Tekk, is collected.  It is
   composed chiefly of heaths and rushes, cut on the common and
   dried.   Much of this is also used as litter, and it in this wav fur-
   nishes an excellent ingredient of the manure used for bear.  Little
   attention is paid to the artificial grasses, except by a few intelli-
   gent individuals, although rye-grass and clover are peculiarly suit-
   ed to the country, and would add very largely to its resources.  It
   would be well, if every cottar in Shetland were to follow the ex.-
   ample of his relatives in Norway, where, as Von Buch informs us,
   the peasants of the northern coasts annually collect a large stock
   of sea-weed, chiefly the Fucus digitatus, which, after steeping a
   day or two in fresh water, is carefully dried and stacked for winter
   fodder.  Cut fresh, and boiled sea-weed is occasionally, but spar-
   ingly, given to cattle in spring in these islands, and it is evidently
   nourishiDg and wholesome.  Proprietors would find it beneficial
   to keep several pasture inclosure, as well as small islands for
   rearing and fattening cattle, and for assisting their tenants in the
   keep of their regular stock, in the event of bad seasons and scanty
   fodder.
      The more general rotation of cropping is, first, bear, with the
   manure spread above after sowing, and it seems as rational, in cer-
   tain circumstances, thus to top-dress corn as grass.  Potatoes come
   next, then oats simply barrowed in.  Ley, an essential ingredient
   in every good Shetland rotation, follows.  Lastly, oats, and again
   bear as before.
      Clearing the ground of weeds, draining, and opening the sub-
   soil, are little thought of, and yet in average seasons the crops are
   good.  Harvest usually commences in September.  The habit
   is too general to allow the corn to become dead ripe before, cutting,
   which, in. the cptse of oats, is, in this climate, most hazardous, for
   the chief dander is from high winds in autumn, It way be affirm-
   ed, that, if the principal cereal crop had been bear, or if the oats bad
   been sooner cut, the better half of the corn crop of the last four
   years might have been, saved.  It is to be regretted, that, while
   the most miuuto details on other Points of agriculture are made
   public, accurate indications of the ripeness of corn crops are left
   to individual conjecture.


