
                          AUCHTERLEES.                           285

rable to the inhabitants of the western district of the parish, who
are at a distance from the mosses; inconsequence of which, many
of them also use coals, which are procured at Banff or Macduff.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the publication of the former Statistical Account in
1793, a great improvement has taken place in the system of hus-
bandry.  Agriculture is well understood, and the tenants are in
general ready to adopt every improvement.  Bone-manure is now
extensively used in the raising of turnips; and lime is also judi-
ciously applied.  The land here is likewise much benefited by
manure and herring refuse, which are brought from Banff and
Macduff.  The houses of the tenants have also undergone a great
improvement within the last forty years.  Many of them are now
slated, and in other respects are both convenient and comfortable.
   The Turriff and Banff, and the Banff and Buchan, turnpike-
roads have been productive of much benefit to this parish.  The
roads in the interior have also been made much better of late
years; and the great improvements which have been carried on
have been the means of giving steady employment to the labour-
ing classes, whose comfort has thereby been much promoted.

January 1840.

                      PARISH OF AUCHTERLESS.

            PRESBYTERY OF TURRIFF, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

              THE REV. GEORGE DINGWALL, MINISTER

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of the parish is derived, from a Gaelic word,
signifying a cultivated field on the side of a hill.  The locality of the
parish and the nature of the soil seem to favour this interpretation.
   Extent, &c.-The parish extends about 8 miles in length, and
nearly 4 in breadth, and is of an irregular oblong figure.  It is
bounded on the north by Inverkeithny; on the east by Turriff;
on the south, by Fyvie and Rayne; and on the west, by Culsa-
mond and Forgue.
   The temperature is generally mild, particularly in the interior
of the parish.


