
                           LOCHWINNOCH.                             83

part of it, with many petrifactions of what seem to have been arbores-
cent ferns. Their stems are now sandstone, and their-bark is con-
verted into carbon. This freestone overlies the,coal and stratified
greenstone. The range of hills, of which the Misty Law and, Hill
of Staik are the highest, is mostly formed of porphyry toward the
top, which is capped with greenstone, intersecting the porphyry in
innumerable dikes. Carbonate of copper is found in small quan-
tities in nests at Kame, contained in whinstone; and veins of sul-
phate of barytes are common in the secondary trap rocks. These
veins are from 6 inches to 14 or 16 feet thick. Their directions
are various. Trap tuffa is found in a few instances among the por-
phyry, in which it seems imbedded, but its relation to it is not easily
traced, It is composed of the fragments of the surrounding por.
phyry and greenstone, cemented together by a paste apparently
composed of these rocks and oxide of iron.
  Overlying the secondary trap in the lower part of the parish is
the coal formation, consisting of the usual series of freestone, iron-
stone, shale, &c. dipping generally to the south-west. This forma-
tion partly surrounds the beautiful loch of Castle-Semple, and con-
tinues without interruption into Ayrshim, around Kilbirnie Loch,
and onward to Ardrossan. This formation, however, is limited
within the parish to a very small compass, and the working, of coal
has not been found a very profitable speculation, as it i's intersect-
ed with many dikes and troubles. The thickest bed known is At
Hallhill, where it varies from 6 to 10 feet; the other, beds are from,
a few inches to 2 or 3 feet thick. It maybe remarked that the
coal strata which dip towards the south-west, crop  out in an op-
posite direction near the foot of Castle-Semple Loch; but the stra-
tified rocks on the northern side of the Loch scarcely reach this
point, being, cut off by the insulated rock of the Hill of Kenmure,
which does not belong to the coal formation but is Composed of
secondary trap.
  Limestone, which abounds in organicremains, is wrought by
mining at Howwood, and a similar limestone was wrought
at Midtown. The organic remain found in it consist chiefly of bi-
valve shells some of which are very rare specie, Coralliod, En-
trochi, Encrini, &c. Although limestone has been wrought on a
small scalein several instances yet the quantity known to exist is
very limited in extent; and at two places, Garpel and Midstown,
has  been fairly wrought out.
   The minerals found in this parish are numerous, and a many


