

67                              ETTRICK.

are only a rude outline, being a very little above the ground, over-
grown with moss. About a Scotch mile above the farm-steading,
and close on the Rankle-burn, is to be seem the lonely spot on
which once stood the noted kirk or chapel of Buccleuch. There
is still here to be seen the feeble outline of the old wall, with the
kirk-yard dike; and around the whole is the crumbling form of a
stell or fauld, for the sheep on the farm at certain seasons. The
marks where houses seem to have stood, are still visible on the
burn side.

Tushielaw.--Passing from Buccleuch, we come upon the gray
ruins of the tower of Tushielaw, on the side of a hill near the road
on the Ettrick, which seem to request a moment's inpection. It
is not easy to say whether it is more famous in song, in tradition,
or in the realities connected with its history. A powerful family
of the name of Scott were once its inhabitants; and they were not
more powerful than famous, as freebooters and moss-troopers. In
1502, "Patrick Turnbull, in Walchope, produced a remission
for resetting, supplying, and intercommuning with Archibald and
Ninian Armstrangis, and William Scott, son of David Scott of
Tushielaw, in their stouthreifs, slaughters, burnings, and other
crimes committed by them." And there is a famous tradition that
Adam Scott, (probably brother of the said William,) commonly
called the King of Thieves, on being taken by King James V. one
morning before breakfast, was hung on an ash tree over his own
gate; along the principal branches of which it is said there are still
to be seen the nicks and hollows formed by the ropes on which many
an unhappy wight had been suspended by the rigorous and power-
ful baron.* It is to this noted chief of the border we find granted
a "Remission for treasonably breaking prison, and his warde within
the castle of Edinburge, apud Edinburge," November 28, 1505.
Nearly twenty years after this, (March 25, 1525,) we stumblen on

<FOOTNOTE>*The tradition is undoubtedly incorrect. Adam Scot, called the King of Thieves,
was tried, convicted, and beheaded, at Edinburgh, on the 18th May 1530. Pitcairn's
Criminal Trials, vol. i. p. 145. The words of the record are as follows:  "1530,
Maii 18, Adam Scot of Tuschelaw, convicted of art and part of theftously taking
black mail from the time of his entry within the castle of Edinburgh, in ward, from
John Brown in Hoprow; and of art and part of thefously taking black mail front
Andrew Thorbrand, and William his brother; and for art and part of theftously tak-
ing of black mail from the poor tenants of Hopecailzow; and of art and part of theft-
ously taking black mail from the tenants of Eschescheill. Beheaded. Quhacrfor
the king caused hang the 18th May William Cockburn of Henderlande, and Adame
Scott of Tuschelaw, thieves apprehendit in Edinburgh, to terrific otheris;--and they
were heidit, and their heidis fixitupon the Tolbuith of Edinburgh."




