
			CREICH.                                643

inches inwards. lt has, also a cavity at the top, and a perforation
extending from the cavity to the bottom. The perforation in this
stone is four inches in depth, exactly double the depth of the per-
foration on the other.
   The above described monument was allowed. to remain for ten
days in its original form for public inspection, but as some people,
from a love of mischief, or from an expectation of finding hidden
treasure,were beginning to lift and injure some of the stones ,and
as no method of preserving: them in safety in their original situation,
could be easily adopted, it was considered necessary to remove
them. They were taken up in presence of a concourse of people
who had assembled to gratify their curiosity, when underneath one
of the carved stones, were found burned human bones and charcoal
George Tod, Esq. of Luthrie on whose property these ancient
circles were discovered, with much civility presented them to the
present,incumbent, and they are, now placed precisely in their
original form in a wood behind the manse, a good subject for the
examination ofthe antiquary. Figures of them are given in the
Edinburgh Magazine, December 1817.
   It has been supposed by some, that these ancient circles were
small Druidical temples or rather oratories for families, that the
excavated stones were meant for containing holy, water, which, the
Druids, as well as the Greeks, the Jews, and other ancient nations
were circustomed to use, and that the burned bones were, the remains
of the sacrifices here offered. It has been supposed by others, with
seemingly greater, probality among whom is Huddleston, the
learned Editor of Toland's History of the Druids, that,these are
sepulchral monuments, and that the hieroglyphics on the stories are
sepulchral inscriptions-that one of these, which is the figure of a
spade, is an emblem of mortality, and as such is still seen on
tombstones; that the figure of a pair of shoe, and of a shield turn-
ed upside down, may naturally signify that the owner has no far-
ther use for them, and may remind one of the  reversing of arms
at a soldier's funeral; that the circular figure may represent rings
which have often been found in sepulchral monuments; that the
circular figure with perforated knobs may represent an antique
vase with gutta lachrymales; that the cross inscribed in a circle
mar represent the wheel of some ancient carriage, while the
figure to the left may represent the body of the machine disjoined
from it, as if no more required. The stones found near to the
above structure may have been entirely unconnected with it.

<FOOTNOTE>See Edinburgh Magazine, December 1817, and April 1818.



