
414                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

tive population above fifteen years of age who cannot read.  Yet,
though, the people generally are alive to the benefits of education,
it is nevertheless to be regretted, that the attendance of not a few
of the children at school is neither so regular, nor so long con-
tinued as is necessary to a thorough instruction, even in the ordi-
nary branches of education.
  Libraries.- Hawick is well supplied with libraries.  The oldest
and most extensive is the Public Library, which was established in
1762.  The proprietors or shareholders, whose annual subscription
is 10s. each, amounted, in 1838, to 56; and others who are not
shareholders upon being recommended by a proprietor, and, pay-
ing 15s. yearly, are entitled to receive books.  This library con-
tains about 3500 volumes, with the leading periodicals of the pre-
sent day.
  The Trades' Library was instituted in 1802, and contains about
1200 volumes, including an excellent selection of the most ap-
proved works in English literature.  The yearly payment is 4s.
Till 1830 the average number of subscribers did not exceed 40.
They now amount to 135.  The Juvenile Library, under the
charge of the minister of the parish, contains upwards of 300 vo-
lumes chiefly of a religious description.  This library was original-
ly instituted for the children attending the Sabbath schools, but
the books are lent out at present to any parishioner on the pay-
ment of 2d. monthly.
  There are likewise libraries of a similar description, for the land-
ward part of the parish, both at Teviothead, and at the village of
Newmill.
  School of Arts.-A School of Arts was established in 1824,
under the auspices of James Douglas, Esq. of Cavers.  Since its
formation several courses of lectures have been delivered.
  Clothing Society.-A society was instituted in 1821 for distri-
buting articles of clothing to indigent females.  It is judiciously
managed by a committee of ladies.  The yearly expenditure amounts
to about L. 20.
  Friendly Societies.- There were lately two Friendly Societids in
the town, which were of much benefit in promoting industrious ha-
bits, and exciting a desire of independence.  The one was esta-
blished in 1779, and the other in 1802, but being founded, like
many others, on defective principles, both of them have been dis-
solved.  Their places, however, have been so far supplied by va-
rious associations, though on a smaller scale, among the operatives


