
     Statistical account

taken down on building the new Inn, in which a great
number of human bones was discovered, particularly a
human scull of a remarkable large size.
   A general chapter of all the Grey-Friars of the king-
dom was held at this monastery 11th July 1490; where
the Wardens capitulary being assembled, they confirmed
an indenture made between the Lady Beatrice Douglas,
Countess of Errol, and the Grey-Friars of Dundee, and
ordered it to be put in execution.*
   There was also in Lanark, a chapel dedicated to St.
Nicholas, but where situated I do not know.  Mention is
made of it in a charter granted by James IV.  "Steph-
"ano Lockhart, de loco de Clydesholme, et de cymba
"super aquam de Clyde, mortificat.  Capellano ad al-
"tare Sanctae Katharinae fundat. in capella Sti. Nicolai
"de Lanark," dated 7th March 1491.
   About half a mile to the Eastward of the town are the
ruins of the Hospital of St. Leonard's, probably founded
by Robert I.  In 1393, Sir John Dalzell, a predecessor of
the Earl of Carnwath, obtained from Robert III. to him-
self in liferent, and to Walter Dalzell his son in fee, the
whole revenue belonging to St. Leonard's hospital within
the burgh of Lanark, upon condition that he and his

<FOOTNOTE>

*The purport of the Indenture, which is dated in 1482, is as follows:  In
the year preceding the date of the indenture, provisions being very dear, the
Grey friars of Dundee not having wherewithall to maintain themselves,
were obliged to pledge their books, cups and utensils.  The Countess com-
miserating them, gave them 100 L. Scots or L. 3.6: 8 Sterling to support
them in their extremities, and to enable them to repair their monastery;
and in return the Friars obliged themselves and their successors to ce-
lebrate daily at the great altar mass, submissa voce, vel cum nota, which
mass was called missa Demim pro anima dictae Beatricis (Comitissæ,) ac pro
animabus Willielmi, olim sponsi sui, et Willielmi com. de Errol. fil. ejus, etc.
and if the Countess should, as she designed, build an altar within the church
of the three kings at Cullen, then the mass should be said at that altar, etc.


