
480                                PERTHSHIRE.

a commodious and comfortable residence.  The grebe extends to
about 22 Scotch acres, of which 13 are under wood, pasture, house
garden, and offices; the other 9 have usually been in tillage, but
the present incumbent has put them almost all under grass.  If
the whole place were rented, it might be worth about L. 30 per
annum.  The stipend is 17 chalders, half bear and half oatmeal,
and there is an allowance of L. 10 for communion elements.  The
last augtnentation dates from the last half of crop and year 1823,
There are, as has already been stated, two bhapels within the
parish, connected with the Church of Scotland; those of Ardeonaig
and Lawers.  They are under the patronage of the Society for
Propagating Christian Knowledge, and intended to accommodate
the distant inhabitants of tbe parishes of Kenmore, Killin,and Weem.
They are so conveniently situated as to be little more than three
miles distant in any direction from the furthest part of their
boundary.  The two chapels, with the dwelling-houses and offices,
were built entirely at the cost, and by the munificence, of Lord
Breadalbane.
   The mission of Ardeonaig was established in: 1792; the salary
is L. 60, with 17 1/2 acres of grebe land; the cost of the building
was about L. 800.
The mission of Lawers, formerly a part of  the mission of Ar-
deonaig, was established in 1833; the salary is L. 50, with 6 1/2
acres of glebe land; the cost of the building was about L. 685.
   One-half of these salaries is paid by the Marquis of Breadal-
bane, the other half by the Society for Propagating Christian
Knowledge.
   Dissentdrs.-There is one small Dissenting meeting-house
in the parish, situated within the mission of Lawers, capable
of holding about 100 sitters, and belonging to the denomina-
tion of Baptists.  They, with a few Independents, are the only
description of Dissenters in the parish, and altogether they do
not exbded so in number.   There are neither voluntaries to
whet our argumentative weapons, nor so much as a single Ro-
man Catholic.  The ministers of the denominations to which
I have referred are paid by the free-will offerings of their fol-
lowers, together with, I believe, some petty allowance from funds
belonging to these separate bodies of Christians.  The people of
this part of the country are a church-going people, of which cir-
cumtance gratifying evidence is afforded by the distance from
which many of them travel to attend public worship.   It may fur-
                           4


