
490                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

deficiency also in all the more cultivated districts of Scotland.  Nor-
folk barley, however, and wheat, both often tried here, too fre-
quently fail to come to maturity, and their cultivation is now rare-
ly attempted.  The climate is admirably well adapted for turnips.
Potatoes rarely fail, and there are great crops matured of clover
and rye-grass.  In the general run of seasons, the sowing of oats
commences the last week of March, and the sowing of bear is fi-
nished by the 1st of May ; potatoes are planted about the 10th of
May, and turnips sown from the 1st to the 20th of June; hay
harvest occurs about the 10th of July, and that of the grain crops
begins about the 1st of September.
   In stating the nature of the climate, notice must be taken of a
serious injury to which the grain crops are exposed, in some of the
lowest and most sheltered parts of the parish, owing to the occur-
rence in some years of a hoar frost during some part of the month
of August.  Regarding this the following facts have been observ-
ed.  The frost never occurs but during a calm with a clear sky;
the freezing cold is confined to the surface of the earth, or to
within a few feet of it; for a thermometer, raised only five or
six feet into the air, will indicate a temperature of 39&deg; or 40&deg;,
when serious mischief is going on below.  The injury is strictly
limited to the lower and more sheltered lands, and all the higher
and more open lands escape.  No injury is sustained in very nar-
row gorges, through which water flows rapidly, although patches
of land in them are otherwise low and sheltered.  Spaces round
mill sluices and other small waterfalls are also free from injury,
and margins of 20 or 30 yards breadth on both sides of the larger
and more rapid streams.  If a breeze sets in before sunrise, no
evil follows, although at some previous hour of the night it has
frozen at the surface of the ground.  These facts would seem
to indicate, that, if a current of air could be artificially created, the
evil effects would be warded off.
   It has been ascertained also that grain in a very green and
milky state sustains no injury from these slight frosts ; but that if
it approaches very nearly to a state of ripeness, even so much
that there shall afterwards be found hardly any deficiency in the
usual quantity of meal that it yields, it becomes altogether unfit for
seed.  It is in this view that great loss is often sustained, for there
is no external mark by which the damaged grain can be distin-
guished.  It may, however be recognized at once, by carefully
stripping the husks from the kernels, when the longitudinal groove
                                      4


