
   136                        BANFFSHIRE.

   were not used; but now, these and the best system of farming have
   found their way to all quarters.  Not only is the old arable land,
   in consequence, in general well farmed, but a great extent of waste
   land has been brought into cultivation.  On the Ballindalloch es-
   tate, the proprietor is usually at the expense of main drains when
   required, or allows for land improved L.5 per acre to the tenant,
   (who is thus enabled to purchase lime,) on his agreeing to pay inte-
   rest at 5 per cent. during the lease; and it is an injudicious im-
   provement which does not in this way turn out advantageous both
   to landlord and tenant. But, notwithstanding such encouragement,
   the progress of improvement is much retarded in the parish church
   district, by the quantities of stones, either partly above or imme-
   diately under the surface, which create an expense in the removal,
   in general much greater than that of trenching.  But in Glenli-
   vet, where there are comparatively few stones, the reclaiming of
   waste land is going on at a rapid rate, being on an average, on
   the Gordon estate alone, at the rate of 100 acres annually or
   about 2000, in the course of the nineteen years'lease.  Few of the
   farmers keep more than two or three horses in the low end of the
   parish; but in Glenlivet there are some very extensive farms;-and
   on them, the system of cropping and manuring the fields, and the
   general mode of management, can scarcely be surpassed.  The
   example of these wore skilful and opulent tenants being readily imi-
   tated in the neigbbourhood, the advantage of liming and proper ro-
   tation is now universally felt; and consequently, good farming may
   be seen throughout the parish, with very few exceptions, not only
   on every farm but on every croft.
	Rent of Land.-The number of acres amble on the Gordon es-
   tate, and their average rent, cannot at present be stated.  Ballin-
   dalloch estatet 2200 acres, average rent about L.I per acre.  Cul-
   quoich do., about 70 acres, average rent about L. I per acre.
   	Oats constitute the staple grain of the coui3try,-tbe most com-
   mon being of the early Angus, and sundry varieties. Barley or Scots
   bear is usually sown after green crop.  Very little wheat is raised;
   but, even in the low end of Glenlivet, it grows of excellent quality
   in favourable seasons, and has been known to weigh 55 lb. per
   bushel.
   	Stoch.-Thaugh none of the Clydesdale breed have found
   their way to the parish, many of the horses are strong and ac-
   tive, and in generate better adapted than those of a larger size, to
   the nature of the country, the state of the roads, the quality of
   				4


