
			BANCHORY-TERNAN.                        339

salit hir hienes to put the said earle to the horne. The gentilmen
of the cuntrey past the samyn day furth of Abirdene in thair best
array: and efter thaj haid chaisit the erle Huntlie and his cum-
pany sex myles fra Lochskene, to ane place callit Correchie, and
skarmischand with him," (the fire of the arquebusses drove him
to the low marshy level of the 'Howe,' and nearly the half, of
his followers left him in the night previous to the battle. Most
of the country people, however, favoured him; and many in
the ranks of his enemies had been corrupted by his means) :
" thaj send word to my lord of Murray to come with the Louthiane
men quha wer thair at that tyme; quba cone, and at their cuming,
the wangaird maid thame the battell; bot incontinent thairefter,
thai fled (back) vpoun the gentilmen of Louthiane, and, as sum
sayis, purposing to have causit thame to flie and to be ourrun, to
the effect the erle of Huntlie mycht have obtinit the victorie;
bot the said gentilmen of Louthiane stuid fermlie still, and the
said erllis company, cumand vpoun the said gentilmene, was put
vpon thair bakkis with speiris, and thairefter fled, quhair followit
greit slauchter." On Huntly's side, 120 were slain, and nearly
as many taken prisoners. Among the latter was the Earl, "who
being aged and corpulent, and by reason of the throng which
pressed him, expired in the hands of his takers." "He was tane by
Andro Reidpath, one of our soverane ladie's gaird." The Queen
herself is reported to have been present, and to have beheld the
battle from a rocky seat overlooking the whole field, still called
Queen Mary's Chair. In the bottom of the glen, there are several
heaps, which seem to mark an encampmdnt, and various cairns,
which are easily distinguished from others beside them of a more
ancient date. But on the north side of the estate of Glassel,
where it is said the chief carnage took place, are several larger
tumuli, which are supposed to be the graves of the Gordons over-
taken in their flight. An old ballad, sometimes heard among the,
peasantry of the district, mentions, among others present on the
Queen's side, the Burnetts of Leys, the Irvines of Drum, and
the Frasers of Durris. It is certain that John Douglas of Til-
whilly obtained a pardon, under the Great Seal, for himself and
his followers, for assisting Huntly in the battle. He was much
befriended by Morton while Regent, who, on one occasion, is
said to have lived incognito at his house of Tilwhilly, and passed
under the name of "James the Grieve."
	In 1557, John, Commendator of Arbroath, and the whole con-



