

604			FIFESHIRE.

above; and three cart load of potatoes or three-lippies bounds i. e.
about 300 square yards.  The foreman has the same, except L.12
instead of L.8, and a "cow-keep," instead of an allowance of milk.
Day-labourers have 1s. 6d. without victuals, but 2d. less in winter,
and 2d. more in summer.  Women receive 8d. without victuals.
Reapers receive L.1, 10s. with victuals, for the harvest; binders
have 10s. more. The harvest-home being now discontinued, each
receives 1s. in lieu at the end of the harvest.  Threaving, which,
however, is not much practised, is at the rate of 3d. for twenty-
four sheaves of oats or barley; and 4d. for twenty-eight of weat.
  The price of an iron plough is L.3 12s.; of a harrow, L.1,
6s.; of a double horse cart, L.12 ; of a set of horse shoes, 3s. 4d.
A mason receives 2s. 6d. a-day; or for a dry dike, 8s.; a cottage,
L.1, 10s.; and a two-story house L,2 the rood; and for hewing
freestone 31/2d. the foot.  An ordinary weaver makes 7s. or 8s.
a-week; and a woman wins 7d. a-day'by winding the bobbins.
  Live-Stocks.-The common breed of cattle is the Fifeshire, cros-
sed with,the Forfarshire and Teeswater, but chiefly with the for-
mer.  Sheep are seldom kept.  This is a grain rather than a
grazing or green crop part of the country,-the hardness of the soil
not being so favourable to the expapsion of the bulbous roots.
  Husbanry.-The rotation of the crops is generally for six years,
and in nearly the following order: On the low grounds, which are
the richest and strongest, summer fallow or green crop, (turnips and
potato,) wheat, peas, barley, grass, and oats. If peas are -not sown,
the grass remains for two years. On the lighter soils of the hill sides,
in which wheat is rarely sown, green crop, barley, and grass for
two years, barley and oats. A rotation of five years, which is some-
times adopted, may be as follows: Fallow or green crop, wheat,
grass for two years, oats; or, instead of two years in grass barley
and grass.
  Much of the soil being naturally wet and marshy, and a good
dead of it lying on till, draining has been greatly required. Much
has been done in this respect, by the farmers from time to time;
and although more is still needed, most of the soil is now compa-
ratively dry and in good condition. Stone-draining is that chief-
ly used. A little of the surface tile-draining was introduced last
year, and seemingly with good effect.

  Little could now be transferred from	the unreclaimed land to
the cultivated, much of it lying on steep slop.  And centainly
the most ornamental, and perhaps also the most profitable, method



