
	                     ELGIN.                               5

Since the passing of the Reform Bill the limits of the royalty have
been reatly extended, and include the populous village of Bishop
Mill, in the parish of New Spynie. The number of the enrolled
constituency is 277, but at least twenty more have a right to the
elective franchise, who have not qualified. Along with Cullen,
Banff, Peterhead, Kintore, and Inverury, it sends a Member to
Parliament, and is the returning burgh. Within the last fifteen
years, two printing-presses have been established in the town, and
the proprietors of each attempted a periodical, the one a literary
magazine, and the other an agricultural journal, but without success.
The Elgin Courier, a weekly journal, was first published in
1827, and at one time had a circulation, it is said, of 300, which,
had it continued, would have remunerated the enterprising pro-
prietor. From untoward circumstances, the journal has recently
passed into other hands; and if the Elgin Courant is conducted
with the prudence and ability which the few numbers published
indicate, there is no doubt it will succeed.
   Eminent Men.-Alexander Grey, Esq. surgeon, and Lieutenant-General
Anderson, both of the E.I.C. Service, the former a native
of Elgin, and the latter a proprietor and occasional residenter,
deserve to be mentioned.  Dr Grey, by economical habits, amassed
a very considerable fortune in the East, the greater part of which
he bequeathed for charitable purposes, particularly for building
and endowing an hospital for the sick poor of the town and county
of Elgin, of which the objects for whom it was intended have been
reaping the benefit for more than fifteen years.
   General Anderson -was born of very humble parents in the neigh-
bouring parish of Lhaubryd, and entered the Honourable Com-
pany's service as a private. By his good conduct and soldierly
qualities he attained rank and wealth, and the large fortune which
he had honourably acquired he devoted at his death to the education
of the young, and the support of the aged poor of his native
county.  The Elgin Institution at the east, and Grey's Hospital
at the west end of the town are splendid memorials of these philanthropists.
   Land-owners.-The principal proprietors in the parish are, the
Earls of Fife, Seafield, and Moray, George Duff of Milton Duff,
Colonel Alexander Hay of Westerton, Alexander Brander of
Springfield, James Stpehen, M.D. of the Shanchry, James Stewart
King of the Greyfriars, Lachlan Cuming of Blackhills, and Major,
Taylor of Bilbohall.


