
     Statistical Account

had increased to 316,550, the computed value of which a-
mounted to nearly L. 11,000*.  And, although during the
commotions of 1745 and 1746, the sale of manufactures was
in a great degree suspended, yet that circumstance did not much
affect their progress.  They continued to be diligently pro-
secuted, and gradually to increase, till the war of 1755 inter-
rupted the communication with America and the West In-
dies, at that time, almost the only market for the goods of
this district.  The effects of that interruption, the interval of
peace that succeeded was not sufficient entirely to remove.
From the value of L 22,000, to which the manufactures of
the district had in some former years risen, they fell in 1773
to L. 15,000; and the next year still lower.  Such indeed

<FOOTNOTE>

the feller, and the same sum on the buyer.  For the convenience of dealers in
linen, public offices are established in different districts, under the authority
of trusties, whom his Majesty is impowered by the same act to appoint for
overseeing, directing, and improving, the linen manufacture in Scotland.  And these
trustees have in some instances authorized manufacturers to stamp their own
cloth according to the directions of the act.
Although the law requiring the stamping of linen, was founded on appa-
rent views of public utility, it is doubtful whether any advantage has been
derived from it sufficient to compensate the expence and loss of time, to which
the manufacturer is subjected by it.  The approbation of the stampmaster is
never found to have any influence on the judgement of the merchant: Nor is
it to be supposed, that a person, who has no connection with the trade, and
whose emoluments depend on the quantity which he stamps, will be equally
scrupulous of affixing the seal of his approbation, as if his interest depended on
the quality.  If stamping he found a necessary political regulation, the ends
of utility appear to be best attained, by giving the power of stamping his own
cloth to the manufacturer; whose credit and interest, operate as a joint secu-
rity to the trustees; and to the public, that no improper goods are sent into
the market.
+At that time the whole cloth manufactured in the district including the
parishes of Kirkaldy, Abbotshall, Dysart, Leslie, etc. was stamped here, and
is included in the computation.


