
                           GALASHIELS.                         27

to apply for parochial relief.  Yet there are still some examples
of a virtuous struggle with want; and these it is the business of
charity to encourage and sustain as it is always found that the
spirit of independence dies the moment that legal assessment comes
to its aid.
     Inns.--Of inns and alehouses there are no less than nine in
the parish, exclusive of the like proportion in the Melrose half of
the town, as well is of spirit shops abounding in both districts; and
the evil has recently been aggravated, by granting to toll-keepers
the license of retailing spirits,--a practice which, the more it is
vindicated by the increase of toll revenue, the more it ought to be
reprobated for the demoralization which it creates.
     Fuel.--Of fuel, coal is almost the only sort in use.  Wood
is sold in the neighbouring plantations from 2s. to 6s. a cart; but,
with the additional expense of carriage and chopping, it is found
to be dearer than coal.  The turnip husbandry has put an end
to the preparing of peat in summer.  Coal is brought from Mid-
dleton, a distance of twenty-four miles on an average, to the
parish; and sells from 9d. to 1s. per cwt.  A large depot has
latelv been established, which, it is hoped, will have the effect of
equalizing the cost throughout the vear, and of supplying the poor
with small quantities at the common price;  whereas they have
hitherto been paying twenty-five per cent. above the rate of the
market.

                      VI.--MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     Besides the differences before noticed, betwixt the present state
of the parish, and that when the former Statistical Account was
written, it may be here observed, that the American slubbing-ma-
chine recently introduced into this parish, and the first, I believe,
in this country, gives every promise of success.  Made only from
drawings and partial models, it already works well ; and the in-
genious constructors have sanguine, and not unreasonable expec-
tation that the suite principle will soon be applied to the spinning
department.  It may be added, that, besides the greater use of
water power, there are now four steam-engines at work,--one for
grinding tanners' bark, and the others for the manufacture of ma-
chinery ; and that this power has been rendered available in con-
sequence of the improved state of the roads, which has lowered
the price of coal.  At the former period, the distance of the
nearest post-office (five miles,) was the subject of great complaint;


