
           386                       ILENFREWSHIRE.

           south to Kernpoch Point on the north.  On the west it encroaches
           on the sea'only at three points, viz.  Largs, the Clock Lighthouse,
           and Kempoch Point.  It is nearly cut off by the coal formations
           at Castle Semple, and again between Head of Side and Neilston -
           After which it 'extends into the Mearns and Eaglesham, running
           eastward into the county of Lanark, and embracing a large portion
           of the parishes of Carmunnock, East kilbride, and Avondale.
           The trap is mostly of that species termed in the west of Scotland
           rotten-whin.   In every quarter of the parish, however, there are
           quarries of a fine. strong greenstone. . About the village of Eagles-
           ham,- the trap is associated in some places with porphyritic clay-
           stone of considerable thickness.  In a quarry by the roadside lead-
           ing to Glasgow, a greenstone rock of a crag-like form, once attain-
           ed a considerable elevation, but it is now almost entirely cut away.
           It is very curious for the number of extraneous minerals which it
           contains, such as jasper, calcedony, blue quartz, calcareous spar,
           and compact felspar; the latter often beautifully crystallized.  The
           trap rocks form the highest lands, not of this parish only, but also
           of the neighbouring parishes.  On the east side of'the parish a
           sort of tufaceous conglomerate, of volcanic origin, termed by Ure
           -the Osmond stone, occurs in great rocky masses.  It may be seen
           to great advantage at Craigend, on the Cart, at a waterfall six or
           eight feet high.   The water here runs entirely upon it.       It is of
           a curious grayish-greenish colour, and sometimes contains rolled
           masses of porphyritic greenstone.  Between the waterfall and Mill-
           house the Osmond fines off, and nothing but a fine-grained basal-
           Aic trap, much water-worn, is to be seen in the bed of the Cart.
           At Millhouse the Osmond is again of great thickness, and forms
           a coarse conglomerate.  The Torburn and Thriepland burn join at
           Millhouse dam, after which their combined waters form the White
           Cart.  A singular dike of trap runs through the Osmond stone d
           little below the Mill - its direction is cast and south-west.  The
           Osmond forms great precipices half a-mile below Millhouse, and
           at Craigenfeich it attains a perpendicular height of thirty or forty
           feet.  The rocks are generally hardest on the surface, and softer
           below.  They are for the most part perfectly amorphous, but oc-
           casionally they seem to be imperfectly stratified, and even assume
           a regular dip. In this district they lie above a blue basalt to the
           south, and on compact limestone to the north.  The pores and
           crevices are, in some specimens, filled with matter, and in others
           with Calcareous  spar, -and sometimes with zeolite. In some in-



