
96                      LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

durations, are tastefully ornamented with large masses of thriving
plantation, so arranged as to afford a rich variety of landscape,
and command numberless views of the Frith and surrounding
country which cannot be surpassed for extent or beauty. Barn-
bougle, the ancient name of the castle and barony, was probably
the scene of an hostile engagement, "Bar na-buai-gall," in
the Celtic signifying "the point of the victory of strangers,"
though no tradition now remains of any - event of that nature
to which it can be traced. The ancient family of Moubray
were its first proprietors. They came originally from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and are supposed to be a branch of
the noble house of Moubray, Dukes of Norfolk. Philip de Mou-
bray was Lord of Barnbougle, Dalmeny, and Inverkeithing, in the
reign of Alexander 11., and died in 1221. From him descended
Sir John Moubray, who, having no male issue, made a settlement
in 1511 of the lands of Cockairney, part of the lordship of Inver-
keithing, on his father's brother, William Moubray, whose direct
posterity still enjoy that patrimony. The remainder of his pro-
perty be bequeathed to his only daughter, who, by marrying Ro-
bert Barton of Over-Barnton, transmitted it under the family
name to their great-grandson, Sir Robert Moubray, the last of
that long line who inherited these extensive possessions. Several
persons of the name of Moubray, in the humbler walks of life in
the parish, are said to be descendants of this ancient family.*
The baronies of Barnbougle and Dalmeny were sold by Sir Ro-
bert in 1615, to the celebrated Sir Thomas Hamilton, his Majes-
ty's Advocate, afterwards created Earl of Haddington, whose
grandson again disposed of them in 1662, to Sir Archibald Prim-
rose, Bart, of Carrington, then Lord-Register, and afterwards
Justice-General of Scotland. Sir Archibald entailed his estates
on his second son Archibald Primrose of Dalmeny, who, in 1700,
was created Viscount, and in 1703, Earl of Rosebery and Lord
<FOOTNOTE>*There is in Chambers's Journal, No. 4, February 1832, a curious and interest.
ing legend of a feud between Robert Moubray of Barnbough, Bruntfield, laird
of Craighouse, which arose in 1572, out of civil war between the friends of Mary
and the adherents of the Regent. It began by the murder of Bruntfield by Moubray,
who had espoused the Protestant interest, and had taken fore able possession  of the pa-
trimonial estate to the exclusion of his infant niece; and ended in its being avenged
by the son of the former in a combat, in which he was slain by young Bruntfield,
on Cramond Island, witnessed by his mother, who had previously sacrificed her two el-
der son in similar attempts, unsuccessfully made, to satiate her revenged. The victor
in this desperate encounter is said to have married the heiress of Barnbougle, who
was of course restored to her rightful patrimony; but, as neither the names nor the
story appear to accord with the memoranda of the family from which the above ac-
count is taken, we cannot give it as authentic.


