
                               CRAIL.                          969

     usher.  The rector, therefore, has the maximum salary, and the
     fees average about L.40 a-year.  He is also kirk-treasurer and
     session-clerk. At this school, all the ordinary branches of educa-
     tion are taught, and frequently the higher branches of mathe-
     maties, with Greek and Latin, French and Italian.  The number
     attending is 93.
       There are other three schools in the parish, two of them being
     within the burgh, and one upon Kingsmuir, at all of which the
     ordinary branches are taught.  One of the burgh teachers has a
     free school, and a small salary allowed him by the town; the
     other is upon his own adventure.  At the two, there are about
     190 scholars. The Kingsmuir school was erected by subscription
     in 1843, and is attended by about 50 children.
       In both the endowed schools the teachers are bound to edu-
     cate a certain number gratuitously, and thus there are none above
     six years of age who do not at least know the letters.
       Poor.-The kirk session funds arise from the rent of about
     six acres of land, rents of seats in the church given by some of the
     heritors, dues upon marriages when the bride is in the parish, col-
     lections at the church doors, and some small feu-duties.  Last year
     the number of poor upon the roll was thirty-one, who each received
     from a shilling to two shillings and sixpence a-week according to
     their circumstances-some received assistance in paying their
     rents-every applicant received clothing, and in many cases per-
     sons not upon the roll received assistance in money.  Two persons
     were also maintained in a lunatic asylum, and the deficiency in
     the session's funds was made up by a voluntary assessment among
     the heritors.  Besides what was bestowed by the session, the in-
     terest arising from a share of the Bank of Scotland's stock, be-
     queathed by the late Mrs Coldstream, was divided among sixteen,
     in terms of her deed, and ninety persons received a cart load of
     coals each by voluntary subscription.
       The poor here are better provided for, on the whole, than they
     are in most places.
 
        May 1845.


