
48                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

arranged into a curriculum extending over three sessions, and they
embraced instructions in English grammar and composition, French,
geography, mechanical and architectural drawing, sketching, arith-
metic, algebra, geometry, trigonometry, mensuration, logarithms,
&c., mechanical philosophy, and chemistry.  The most striking
feature, however, of the new arrangements is the " Mutual Instruc-
tion Class." As its name imports, the members instruct each
other, and this is done by one reading a short essay or lecture on
a subject previously intimated to the class, and approved of by it;
after he has finished, a conversation takes place on the subject of
the essay, in which the opinionr advanced are impugned and de-
fended, and additional information communicated.  There is little
method and no restriction as to the subjects chosen, except that
controversial theology and politics are peremptorily excluded.
This class has met with considerable encouragement,  the number
of members being during the winter season from 100 to 120; and
individuals not members of the institution are admissible to it, the
fees being 3s. annually from them, while those already belonging
to the institution pay a fee of 2s.  The-fees of the other classes
are 5s. for each class, except the drawing, which is 7s. ; and the
price for the use of the library is 4s., the payment of which con-
stitutes, a member of the institution; while attendance on the classes
is entirely optional, and open to persons not using the library if
they incline it.  The number of members of the institution at pre-
sent is about 130.
   United Fund.-" The Poor's Hospital was opened on the last
day of October 1741, for the reception of such idle and strolling
vagrants as should be found in town and the poor inhabitants who
had no visible way of earning their bread; also for boys and girls,
the children of poor inhabitants, and for destitute orphans who
had no relations to take care of them.  Every person in the house
was to be employed In work or labour of some kind, according to
their strength and capacity ; the children to attend the school in
the house for certain hours every day ; the boys to be taught read-
ings. writings, arithmetic.  and instructed in the principles of Chris-
ian knowledge, and bound to trades when they came to a certain
age ; the girls to be taught knitting of stockings. and other branches
of female education, to qualify them for being good servants.  The
managers of the hospital were the magistrate and council for the
time being, and some of the most respectable inhabitants chosen
annually by the magistrates and council out of the different socie-


