
                 414                           ARGYLESHIRE.

                  raneous passage extends six miles from the mouth of the cave to
                  the Hill of Killellan.  There is also another situated near the
                  fort of Dunaverty, which was the resort of that very pious man,
                  the Rev. James Boes, and whose memory is still held in very deep
                  veneration. He here retired for meditation and prayer, and in
                  consequence, it still retains the name of Boes' Cave, although he
                  lived as far back as the time of the Revolution.
                     Coast.-The sea-coast forms a circuitous course of nineteen miles.
                  The shore is chiefly sandy towards the east coast, but to the west
                  is high and bold, and very rocky, and has a fine appearance from
                  the sea.  The coast is indented with several bays abounding in
                  coral banks, and where vessels may occasionally anchor.  The
                  names are as follows: Dunaverty Bay, Carskey, and Machririoch.
                  The principal headland is the Mull of Kintyre, called by the Ro-
                  mans Epidium Promontorium, where nature rears a strong barrier
                  to resist the waves of the Atlantic. It is the nearest point of the
                  whole island of Great Britain to Ireland, the distance, being com-
                  puted to be only eleven and a-half miles between the promontory
                  and Tor Point, in the county of Antrim. At this place (the
                  Mull of Kintyre) the wild and varied magnificence of the rocks
                  projecting into the ocean, and exposed to all the fury of the
                  waves, and the outrage of tempests, is peculiarly striking to the
                  eye of a stranger. The solitude of the place is broken upon only
                  by the hoarse murmuring of the waves.  From the summit of tile
                  adjoining mountain of Knockmoy, an admirer of the sublime in
                  nature may delight his imagination with one of the grandest scenes
                  in North Britain. The green isle of the ocean is spread in all
                  its magnificence before him.  The islands of Islay, Rathlin, Jura,
                  Gigha, and the distant mountains of Mull are in view. On the
                  east, there is a magnificent prospect of the Frith of Clyde, the
                  lofty hills of Arran, the coast of Ayrshire, and the Carrick and
                  Galloway mountains.  In the extreme horizon, Ailsa forms an ob-
                  ject peculiarly striking.
                    Island of Sanda.-Southend not only includes the two ancient
                  parishes of Kilcolmkill and Kilblaan, but also the Island of Sanda,                  with two very small ones close to it, (Eilean rancaorach), the
                  with two very small ones close to it, (Eilean nancaorach), the
                  Sheep Isle and Glunamore. The principal island, Sanda, is di-
                  vided by a channel of three miles broad, from the south-east
                  coast of the parish. It is of an irregular form, and about four
                  miles in circumtances, forming a single sheep farm, and covered
                  with excellent grass. Buchanan, in his History of Scotland, re-




