
238                EDINDURGHSHIRE.

  On the other hand, the register exhibits, during the ministry of
Mr Robert Hunter, Mr Archibald Hamilton, and Mr Fordyce
the most rigid examples of Presbyterian strictness in order and
discipline.  In July 1655, Mr Hunter assigned to the elders and
deacons separate districts of the parish "for their special oversight
of the manners and conversation of the People living in the same,
to the end that they might visit every one in their quarters, take
inspection of their carriage, and give, from time to time, informa-
tion of any thing amiss therein." In this arrangement, a deacon
was joined to one or two elders in the superintendence of the dis-
trict in which they respectively resided.  They were likewise in-
structed to search their bounds, to see what servants were lately
come to the parish, and to make report of their testimonials, that
their names might be taken up for examination, and the elder and
deacon of the bounds was required to be present at the diet of
examination of those in their own bounds.
   When Mr Archibald Hamilton and Mr Fordyce were ministers
of Corstorphine, the parochial machinery was still more efficient
and complete.  The session of the former, in July 1695, assumed
the singular power of directing their kirk-officer severely to punish
all children whom he found breaking the Sabbath.  In October
1705, the minister recommended to all the elders to be careful
that the worship of God be kept up in each family of their bounds.
At this time also the elders and deacons had their privy censures,
each leaving the meeting in turn, while the others reported what
they knew of his life and conversation, and on his return he was
commended or exhorted, as the report was favourable or the reverse.
  Mr Fordyce, shortly after his ordination, proposed that for all
time coming, the elders should meet in the church the first Mon-
day of every month, at nine o'clock in the morning, where he would
meet with them, and spend some time in prayer, and conference
about the state of the parish, "when they would endeavour to edify
one another by proposing and solving cases of conscience and
Scripture doubts, and be also promised to explain to them a part
of the Confession of Faith, each of these times, till they had gone
through it all.  To this proposal all the elders readily agreed." In
1712, he laid before his session "the necessity of prayer, and setting
up societies through the several bounds of the parish for the same,
to which all the elders readily agreed, and it was resolved that he
and elders in their several districts, should speak to the heads
of families anent the same."
				4


