
562                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

the southern boundary of the parish for about three miles.  Fol-
lowing its turnings and windings, from the source to the mouth, it
is about sixty-one miles in length, and in an ideal straight line
about forty-two miles.  It also abounds with salmon, eel, trout,
and pike ; but the rod-fishing for salmon has been in this neigh-
bourhood, for some years past, greatly deteriorated, in consequence
of part of the water having been diverted from the channel of the
river, to supply the various manufactories on the banks of the Don,
in the vicinity of the city of Aberdeen.  The salmon come up the
river to spawn in the end of the month of September, and return
again to the sea about the beginning of the month of April.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rocks consist chiefly of granite
and whinstone.  Their direction is from east to west and they
dip towards the north.  Detached masses of these are also to be
found scattered over the face of the country. It is rather a sin-
gular circumstance, that almost the whole of the rocks to the north
of the Ury, and for two miles to the south of it, are of whinstone;
whilst the remainder of the parish, for three miles to the south of
a small stream called Burnervie, which issues from Benochie, is of
granite.  Cairngorums have been occasionally found here of con-
siderable magnitude, and portions of the rock are sometimes stud-
ded over with very minute crystals of it, which are generally very
complete in their formation.  The principal stones used for build-
ing mansion-houses and farm-steadings in the neighbourhood, are
obtained from the hill of Benochie, and also at its base in this
parish.  The chimney-pieces in the two drawing rooms of Logie
Elphinstone are of Benochie granite, and the crystals of these
specimens are similar to the Egyptian granite, which, although
not so large in grain, yet admit of an equally good polish.  A
quarry of limestone was opened, some years ago, upon the estate
of Pitodrie; but, owing to the distance from coal, and as it was
found to be neither pure, nor remunerating, it was soon given up.
   Zoology.-There are none of the rarer species of animals to be
found in this parish ; but, under his head, the writer may remark
that, among others more common, the following quadrupeds and
birds have been seen in it, viz. red-deer, roebuck, hare, rabbit,
fox, hedgehog, badger, polecat, weasel, otter; wild goose, wild
duck, teal, pheasant, woodcock, blackcock, fieldfare, raven, heron,
snipe, magpie, jackdaw,  swallow, sparrow hawk, bluehawk, corn-
rail, grey owl, goldfinch, bullfinch, blackbird, thrsh, and cuckoo.
Some years ago, there was shot at Pittodrie, a great northern diver


