
                             FYVIE.	                   343

The whole of this may be considered reclaimed funds, since the
collections at the parish church stand as high as when the parish
was entire.  In consequence, the kirk-session, in the meantime,
allow the whole sum (with the exception of an annual collection
for the poor) to go to the benefit of the new church.  After pay-
ment of a few necessary expenses connected with it, the rest is ap-
plied to the liquidation of the debt.  An annual collection is made in
the parish church for the benefit of the Aberdeen Infirmary, so as to
give the parish a title to send patients to it.  A few are generally
sent every year.  The chief cause of pauperism is the greatly redu-
ced rate of female domestic labour.  The occupation in which the
class of females on the poor roll are principally engaged, and the
only one almost of which they are capable, is knitting.  I am in-
formed that, by their utmost exertions in this branch of employ-
ment, they would only be able to earn about 9d. per week; while
it is in the recollection of many persons that the same class would
formerly have had no difficulty in realizing at the same occupa-
tion the sum of 3s. 6d. per week.  Under these circumstances,
unless some more profitable channel is provided for the labour of
the above class, I apprehend that we have no reason to look for-
ward to a diminution of the burdens of pauper support.
   Fairs.-Two fairs are annually held within the parish, both on
the estate of Fyvie, by right ancient charters.  The proprie-
tor within the last few years has greatly improved the stances
where they are kept, and gives the farther indulgence of levying
no custom.  One of these fairs is held at Faster's E'en, and is
principally for the sale of horses.  lt has long been much fre-
quented for this object. Fat cattle and cows also are now brougbt
to it, and it is increasing.  The other is held in the month of
July, and is chiefly for the sale of small stock, such as calves,
sheep, and young cattle, and for engaging servants for harvest
work.  Most of the farmers in this neighbourhood depend on en-
gaging some extra hands for the harvest at this fair. *

<FOOTNOTE>From inquiries which I have made, I find that there are no fewer than forty
fairs held annually within ten miles of the parish church, for the sale of farm stock
and produce, or engaging servants; and by extending the radius a little, say to twelve
or thirteen miles, a distance often travelled to a fair, there are upwards of 60.  It is
extremely questionable how far this great multiplicity of fairs is of advantage even to
the temporal interests of the community; and as to their higher interests there can
be no doubt that the effect is injurious.  I have heard with much pleasure that
there is some intention on the part of those who have influence in these matters, to
bring about a new arrangement of the whole market system of the country.  It would
be worthy the serious attention of such parties whether the number of fairs might not
be advantageously reduced.


