
96                     BERWICKSHIRE.

Cheviot, 100 score black-faced, and 50 score half Leicester. A
few horses are bred by the farmers, chiefly for their own use:
and a considerable number of calves are reared. The cattle are
of the common Berwickshire breed, coarser than those in the low-
er part of the county.
   It is not the practice in this district to take in cows or sheep to
graze; when this is occasionally done, the average rent of keeping
a milk cow for the year is L. 5, 5s., and a sheep, 5s.
   Rate of Wages.-The wages of herds by the year are usually as
follows: 10 bolls oats, 3 bolls barley, (or-one boll of peas for one
of the bolls of barley,) the keep of from 30 to 36 sheep, the keep
of a cow, half a boll of potatoes planted, and the carriage of firing.
They receive a house, but are obliged to shear for it in harvest,
and to keep a servant called a bondager. This bondager works
for the master when he requires him, at the rate of 10d. a-day,
payable to the herd; and he shears at harvest for the house rent
for a period, which is often fixed at three weeks endurance,-at
which time, food only is allowed.
   The wages of hinds are much the same with those of herds; in-
stead of the keep of sheep, L. 8 or L. 9 is paid. They hold their
house under the same conditions as the herds. Women-servants
receive from L. 4, 10s. to L. 5 for the summer half year, and L. 2
for the winter half. Able-bodied labourers receive 9s. a-week in
winter, and from 10s. 6d. to 12s. in summer, according to their skill
and activity.
   Rent.-The present rental of the parish amounts nearly to L. 4000;
about L. 800 of this rental arises from grass parks let for pasture
from year to year; the remainder from lands let on lease for various
terms, but usually for nineteen years. There are nine heritors,
none of whom are resident. Several large farms are led, that is
left to the charge of herds or stewards for the tenants,-who live on
arable farms in the lower district. John Home Home, Esq. of
Longformacus, is the patron and largest heritor of the parish.
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The farm-houses and roads and en-
closures in this parish are generally in bad repair. The road from
Haddington to Coldstream goes through this parish, and also
another road from East Lothian to Dunse,-both of which are but
indifferently maintained out of the statute-labour money. This
money is collected upon twenty ploughs, the estimated number kept,
and is totally inadequate to the maintenance of the parish roads. In


