
                                            REDGORTON.                       183

          seems to favour the supposition that some who died of cholera
          would have died that very year of other distetnpem At the same
          time, it is certain that some young and healthy persou$9 who, by the
          calculation of human chances, might have survived many years,
          were carried off I)y that dreadful malady.
             The number of children in the parish has been taken, in the
          district of Stanley, under fifteen years of age, and in the rest of the
          parish, under twelve, which give as nearly as possible the same re-
          lative result.

          <TABLE>
          The number of children in Stanley district under 15 years of age is               239
                                   in the rest of the paribh under 12 years of age is       377
          Giving as the average number of children in each family,           -              3 1/2
          Taking the number of children in Stanley under 15, in proportion to the num-
              ber of inhabitants in the district, as the rule, it would give as the number
              of children unber IS, in the whole parish,                                    712
          Average number of each family,                                                    4 1/2
          Number of insane persons,                                                           2
                     fatuous                                                                 4
                     deaf an dumb,                                                            1
                     persons above -80 years of age, of whom one is 98,                      10
             The only residing heritor in the parish is John Marshall, Esq.
          the principal partner of the Lunearty Company, who hold a feu
          of upwards of 130 acres from lord Lynedoch.
             The language generally spoken in the parish is Scotch, which,
          as education advances, is receiving an admixture of indifferent
          English.  None of the natives speak Gadlic, but some recent set-
          tlers are imperfectly acquainted with English, and some, as they
          express it, have the advantage of the 44 twa tongues." Their ha-
          bits are cleanly,-at least much more so than in coifntry parishes,
          where there is not such an admixture of people employed in pub-
          lic works.
             With the exception of the inhabitants of Stanle , most of those
          who are employed in public works are engaged in bleaching,
          which may be regarded as the staple of our manufactures.  The
          people employed at such fields qpjoy regular but not extravagant
          wages; which, with prudence, are sufficient to provide for the
          comfortable subsistence of an orderly family; but do not give
          scope for that extravagance. arisinff from exorbitant wages, which
          is the fertile source of all rnanner of dissipation.  This secures a
          propriety in their deportment, and a steadiness in their character,
          above what is ordinarily fotnd in those who are engaged in public
          works.  We cannot, therefore, free ourselves from some appre-
          hension that the flax and cotton spinning-mills that are erecting in


