
                        ISLAND OF SKYE.

		       PARISH OF KILMUIR.

		PRESBYTERY OF SKYE, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

		THE REV. ROBERT MACGREGOR, MINISTER.


		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
          Name.-KILMUIR is the most northern parish in the island of
        Skye. The name signifies the " Church of Mary," and is de-
	rived from the Gaelic words Cill, a chapel, or burying-ground,
	and Muire, Mary. The parish of old was frequently desig-
	nated St Mary's, as may be seen in Martin's History of the
	Isles, and in other ancient documents. Although the whole
	civil parish is now comprehended under the name Kiltmuir, yet in
	former times only a small district of it went under that denomina-
	tion, viz. that in which the parish church was formerly built. The
	parish originally consisted of a variety of Cills, which were dedi-
	cated to their respective tutelary saints, such as Kileana, Kilmar-
	tin, Kilmorie, Kildorais, Kiltnaluag, Kilvaxter, Kilbride, &c. to
	each of which was attached a portion or district of the parish.
	   Boundaries.-Kilmuir being a section of the northern end of
	Skye, is bounded for the most part by sea, viz. on the north, by
	the channel which intervenes between Skye and the islands of
	Lewis and Harris, commonly called the Minsh; on the east by the
	sound of Gairloch ; on the south, by the parish of Snizort ; and
	on the west, partly by the Minsh, and partly by Loch Snizort.
	The dimensions of the parish vary considerably, and its almost
	semicircular form is rendered very irregular by a variety of small
	indentations and promontories. The extreme points of it may be
	distant in a straight line about 16 English miles; its breadth, taken
	at right angles, varies froth 6 to 10 miles ; and it is supposed to
	contain about 50 square miles. The centre of the parish is in la-
        titude 57&deg; 34' north, and in longitude 6&deg;F 15' west.

        <FOOTNOTE>  Drawn up by Mr Alexander Macgregor, A. M. licentiate of the Church of
	Scotland, and son of the incumbent.


