
                      ISLAND OF ISLAY.

                     UNITED PARISHES OF

                   KILLARROW AND KILMENY.

        PRESBYTERY OF ISLAY AND JURA, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

           THE REV. ALEXANDER STEWART, MINISTER.

        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-KILLARROW took its name from St Marrow, whose cell
or burying-place was in the parish : and Kilmeny has doubtless
bad a similar derivation. Killarrow is now frequently called Bow-
more ; the old ehurch at Killarrow having been thrown down, and
the present church built at the village of Bowmore.
   Extent, 4c.-The parish is of great extent, being seventeen or
eighteen miles long, and eight broad. The lands are generally
low; the hills are not very high, nor rocky, but covered with
heath and fern. The river Luggan, where there is a salmon
fishing, is one of the largest in the district, emptying itself into a
bay of the same name, in the South corner of the parish. The
river of Killarrow runs a great way in the country, and, empties
itself into the bay or harbour of Lochendaal, which harbour runs
from the Mull of Islay and the Runn's Point, about 12 miles to
the pleasure grounds of the proprietor, Walter Frederick Camp-
bell, Esq. It is an excellent harbour for shipping, is very much
resorted to, and of late more than ever; as the proprietor has
built a fine quay at the village of Bowmore.
   Soil, &c.-The soil varies in most of the farms. The farmers
plough too much ground. Mr Campbell has improved large tracts
of moor ground, within view of his own house, which lies about
three English miles from the village; and, from his method of
cultivation, they have produced large crops. He spares neither
pains nor expense ; and in this respect, several of his tenants at-
tempt to imitate him.

StAS.2.7.669.P.Argyle.Killarow_and_Kilmeny

              KILLARROW AND KILMENY.                669

Climate. &c.--The air is generally moist. The prevailing
winds are the west and south-west.

                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

   Parochial Registers.--There are four parochial registers,--lst,
Marriage register, commencing November 15, 1789; 2d, Bap-
tism register, commencing November 17, 1789; 3d, List of poor
and state of poor's funds, commencing June 13, 1819 ; 4th, Kirk-
session minute-book, commencing March 6, 1823; all regularly
kept from the respective dates of their commencement. Any-
thing previous to these dates consisted of mere scraps.
   Land-owners.-- W.F. Campbell, Esq. of Islay, is the, sole pro-
prietor.
   Mansion-house.--The only one in the parish is Islay House.
   Antiquities.--About the beginning of the seventeenth century,
the feuds which had long subsisted between the,Macdonalds of
Islay and the Macleans of Mull, ended in the transference of the
inheritance of the island to the Campbells of Argyle.
   "The remains of the strongholds of the Macdonalds, in Islay,
are the following. In Loch Finlagoan, a lake about three miles
in circumference, three miles from Port Askaig, and a mile off the
road to Loch-in-Daal, on the right hand, on an islet, are the ruins
of their principal castle or palace and chapel; and on an adjoining
island the Macdonald council held their meetings. There are
traces of a pier, and of the habitations of the guards on the shore.
A large stone was, till no very distant period, to be seen, on which
Macdonald stood when crowned, by the Bishop of Argyle, King
of the Isles. On an island, in a similar lake, Loch Guirm, to the
west of Loch-in-Daal, are the remains of a strong square fort,
with round corner towers; and towards the head of Locb-in-Daal,
on the same side, are vestiges of another dwelling and pier.
   "On Freuch Isle, in the Sound, are the ruins of Claig Castle, a
square tower, defended by a deeper ditch, which at once served as
a prison and a protection to the passage. At Laggavoulin Bay, an
inlet on the east coast, and on the opposite side to the village,
on a large peninsular rock, stands part of the walls of a round sub-
stantial stone burgh or tower, protected on the land side by a
thick earthen mound. It is called Dun Naomhaig, or Duni-
vaig. There are ruins of several houses beyond the mound,
separated from the main building by a strong wall. This
may have been a Danish structure, subsequently used by the
Macdonalds. There are remains of several such strongholds


