
			TONGLAND.                             69

is true of the Boleti and the Lichens. In some seasons, the com-
mon mushroom (Agaricus campestris), grows abundantly on the
southern slopes; but the crop is exceedingly precarious, there be-
ing many years in which not one is to be seen. Notwithstanding
its delicious flavour and wholesome qualities, it is neglected by the
common people, who entertain an ungovernable prejudice against
eating it or any of the Agaric family, for all of which they mark
their detestation, by stigmatizing them as "paddock-stools." The
Agaricus Xerampelinus, held in such high esteem by the ancient
Romans, and celebrated in history as leaving been employed by
Agrippina to convey poison to her husband, the Emperor Clau-
dius, is not uncommon in our plantations. It grows to a magni-
ficent size, (I have found it sometimes with the pileus as broad as
the crown of a common hat,) and although not of a particularly
agreeable taste, maybe eaten with perfect safety. Its indifferent qua-
lity as food has led some to wonder at the coarse taste of the Roman
epicures, and others to doubt the accuracy oft heir historians) ima-
gining that they have confounded this fungus with the Agaricus
deliciosus, which is still held in high repute by the modern Italians.
The latter idea may possibly be correct; but taste of every kind
is capable of incredible mo0difications. I am assured by a gentle-
man, a native of Russia, that, at particular seasons, the Agaricus
Xerampelinus and many other kinds, which our peasants and our
paupers would sooner starve than taste, continue to form, as they
have done for ages, the principal food of his healthy, long-lived,
and athletic countrymen. It has been supposed, too, that certain
sorts which are deleterious with us, the Ag. piperatus for example,
are eaten without inconvenience or danger by natives of the con-
tinent; but that is a total mistake. What kills a Scotchman
would prove equally fatal to a Russian or a Frenchman;--the
shades of discrimination, however, between the poisonous and the
wholesome, are so nice that, although detected at once by the dis-
ciplined mushroom-hunter, an unpractised or a careless eye is un-
able to discern them. Accustomed from infancy to follow their pa-
rents through the fields and forests, children soon learn to distin-
guish the different kinds. Hence the astonishment often felt by
strangers on seeing exposed for sale in many of the continental mar-
kets, Fungi, which in their own country, they had been taught to re-
gard as loathsome, injurious, and even fatal. Fairy rings are found
in some places. That this singular and often beautiful appearance
is caused neither lightning nor by insects, nor still less by fairies,


