
668                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

and the lesser on the northern bank.  The rocks are all of the pri-
mitive order, and, with the exception of some limestone, consist en-
tirely of gneiss and granite alternating with each other.  These rocks
are, in some places, buried to a great depth beneath diluvial depo-
sits, in others they rise above the surface.  Immense boulders of
blue sienite were, at one period, scattered over the soil.  The far-
mers, who, at a great expense of labour and gunpowder, have re-
moved most of those that obstructed the plough, term them heathens,
probably from the incessant contest they and their forefathers have
waged with them from time immemorial.  A bed of mountain
limestone traverses the east end of the parish.  It makes its first
appearance on the south bank of the Ythau, in a precipice high
above the river, where it was formerly worked, and passes in
a southerly direction through the lands of Auchedly, the farms of
the Ythsies, &c. into the adjoining parish of Udny, near the
church of which it is at present worked with considerable suc-
cess. *
   Soil and Subsoil.-The soil is a brown loam of various depths,
but generally of good quality, resting on a diluvial deposit of stony
clay, unless where the subjacent rocks and their way to the sur-
face.  The bottom lands, of a heavier and more tenacious cha-
racter, are interspersed here and there with patches of peat moss.
The streams are bordered with stripes of alluvial soil of various
breadths, which, when drained and protected from floods, produce
heavy crops.  Most of the land is sufficiently friable for the growth
of turnip; and the rocky spots, where the plough can work at all,
are often eminently fertile.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Heritors, &c.-The Earl of Aberdeen and Alexander Forbes
Irvine, Esq. are the only beritors.  The former possesses all the
lands in the parish south of the river Ythan.  The estate of
Schivas, situated on the northern bank, and comprising about one-
eighth of the whole parish, is the property of Mr Irvine, who is
the only resident heritor.
  Antiquities.-Tarves, at a very early period, was erected into a
Regality in favour of the Abbot of Arbroath, and an instance is re-
corded, iu 1299, of his claiming a culprit, as feudal superior of
this parish, from the King's Justiceayre at Aberdeen.  About the
time of the Reformation, the Regality passed to James Gordon of

<FOOTNOTE>Limestone is also found at Acquhorthies in this parish, about two and a half
miles west of the church.


