
                              MAUCHLINE.                    165

line-Hill, about a mile distant from the river Ayr. It is neatly
built, and contains 1364 inhabitants. It was formerly a burgh of
barony; but about 120 years ago the charter was lost, (when the
Register Office at Edinburgh was burnt,) and it has never since
been renewed. The principal branches of trade are, weaving,
shoemaking, and snuff-box making. It is well governed by the
baron bailie and the justices of the peace in the neigbbourhood.
	Villages.--There are two small villages in the parish, Haugh
and Auchmillan, the former containing 80, and the latter 35 in-
habitants.
	Means of Communication.--Mauchline being situated nearly in
the centre of the county, enjoys easy means of communication
with the most distant parts of the country. It has a post-office.
under excellent management; and there are two turnpike roads,
which cross each other at Mauchline; the one, from Ayr to Edin-
burgh, runs in the parish from west to east about four miles; the
other, from Glasgow to London, from north to south, about seven
miles in the parish. Alongst this line of road a stage-coach passes
twice every lawful day.
	Over the river Ayr there are several very useful bridges near
Mauchline, particularly the new bridge at Barskimming, built by
the late Sir Thomas Miller. It excels all the bridges in the
county in beauty and elegance, and is one of the greatest curiosi-
ties to be seen in it. It consists of a single span, the length 100
feet, height 90.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated in the middle
of the town, nearly in the centre of the parish, in the most eligible
situation that could have been chosen. It affords accommodation
for 1100 persons. The sittings at present are all free,--no division
of the church having yet taken place.
	The manse was built in 1792, and is in good repair. The
glebe consists of 7 acres of good land, and is worth L. 24 per an-
num. The stipend consists of 15 chalders of grain, half meal and
half barley, the price of which is regulated by the fiars price for
the county. The number of Seceders is not great, there being
only one dissenting chapel in the parish, belonging to those in
connection with the Associate Synod, known formerly by the name
of Burghers. Their minister is paid from seat-rents and from
collections,--the amount of the stipend being L. 125. The num-
ber of families belonging to the Established Church may be stat-
ed, 353; persons of all ages, 1784; communicant, 600. The
number of families belonging to the chapel, 83; persons of all


