
                         INSCH.                              749

south side, and about ten days later in the vicinity of that hill,
even on the south side, than on the more southerly part of the
parish.  The climate throughout, however, may certainly be
termed very salubrious, there being none of what are called local
distempers known in the parish.
   Hydrography.-Though not in the vicinity of any considerable
river, Insch is well watered by small rills, so that on a majority of
the farms in it, the thrashing machines are driven by water.  The
Shevock has already been referred to as forming one of the boun-
daries of the parish.  This it does both on ihe west and south.
About a mile from where it takes leave of the parish, running
eastward, it unites with the Ury, a larger stream, which takes its
rise in the Glens of Foudland, i.e. on the north side of the hill
of that name, and there forms the boundary of the parish on the
north.
   Geology.-The hill of Foudland is famous for its slate quarries.
The slate, which is of a fine dark colour, and excellent quality for
roofing, is found in beds running from south-west to north-east,
and inclining northwards the angle of inclination varying a good
deal.  Cross-bars or dikes cutting across the veins are of frequent
occurrence, and consist of a slaty substance for the most part, with
pieces of trap and sometimes decomposed granite intermixed.
These cross-bars are found occasionally to derange the veins, so
that the sections on the opposite sides are not in the same line
with each other.
   The rocks composing the smaller hills in the parish seem to
be chiefly gneiss, and black or grey granite.
   The soil is for the most part of a loamy nature, and generally
what might be called a light loam, with a mixture of gravel and
yellow clay forming the subsoil.
   In the low grounds, towards the base of Dunnideer, bog-iron
ore is found in considerable quantities.  On the sides of the hill
of Foudland, the soil is generally a light clay, mixed with slaty
particles, and the subsoil of a slaty nature, always retaining a
certain quantity of moisture in the driest seasons, and in wet
seasons, again, allowing the superfluous water to ooze off, so that
the land here is not liable to be either droughted or drowned, as
the expression is.  There are some peat-mosses in this hill, in
which large oak-trees have occasionally been discovered.  The
higher parts of the hill, and all that is uncultivated of it, are co-
vered with heath.


