
     202                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

Berwickshire,-being a six course shift-and were only allowed one
white crop.  This was much complained of, as the lea crop was
frequently destroyed by the grub; and as it was almost impossible
to bring the soil so soon into a proper mould for turnips.  But from
this period a complete change took place in the improvement and
appearance of the parish.  The settlement in the parish, about
this times, of a gentleman farmer from Berwickshire, no doubt gave
an additional stimulus to the spirit of improvement then excited.
By the leases of 1822, a seven course consisting of three grasses,
two white crops, turnips, or other green crop, and oats or bear and
grass seeds, is that stipulated for and generally adhered to.  This
mode of cropping seems best suited to the climate and the nature
of the soil, and when fairly attended to will yield the greatest re-
turns to the tenants, with the least deterioration to the land. If
wheat were generally cultivated, some alteration in the prescribed
rotation would be requisite; but though the soil is well fitted for
the cultivation of wheat, the climate is rather unfavourable.  It is
to be hoped, however, as drainage and other improvements pro-
ceed, and the mosses are freed of their stagnant water, that the
climate will assume a kindlier character.  The tenants are en-
titled, in virtue of their leases, to sea-weed or ware, and shell-sand
from the sbore.  The shell-sand is a powerful stimulant; but it is
the opinion of the best judges that it should never be applied with-
out an adequate quantity of dung.  The kinds of oats most gene-
rally cultivated are Kildrummy, Hopetoun, potato, and barley oats.
Since the introduction of the early kinds of oats, especially the
barley oat, the harvests have commenced much sooner than for-
merly.  The intelligent tacksman of Lunderton, who has kept a
regular record of the times of sowing and reaping for the last thirty
years states that, but for tho earlier species of oats, the harvest of
1816 would have been as bad as 1782, if not worse.  Main drains
find ditches, hedges, and fences have been made to a considerable
extent.  Thorn hedges, though generally planted, have never thriven
well ; it were desirable that some other kind should be tried which
would afford both shelter and fencing.  The south part of the
parish is tolerably well accommodated with roads.  The northern
division has long laboured under a great disadvantage in this re-
and it has been impossible for the tenants in that part of
the parish, from the want of easy access to their farms at all sea-
sons, to go on with their improvements : but this ground of com-
plaint is in the course of being removed.  The means of farther


