
                              TONGUE.                        179

tural wood. The extent of the latter is not easily ascertained,
from, the irregular manner in which it is disposed.
    Rent.-The real rental of the parish is L. 22812, 13s. 11d., of
which lotters pay L. 757, 1 Is. 3d. ; and large farmers. L, 1525,
2s. 8d. The average rent of arable land per acre is L.1.
    Wages.-Tradesmen are allowed 2s. a-day, and day-labourers
Is. 6d. in summer, and Is. in winter.
     The raw produce which is offered for sale is trifling. Those
who do sell, are regulated by market-prices. Very superior
Cheviot sheep are reared upon the large farms, which are highly
esteemed, and fetch high prices in the southern markets. The
small tenants rear the black-faced breed, or more generally
a cross between it and the Cheviot. From want of full feedi ng,
their pasture being limited and generally overstocked, both their
sheep and their cattle are stinted in their growth. A real High-
land pony can now seldom be seen. The system of farming upon
the crofts is decidedly bad. ' The tenants, besides endeavouring
to keep more cattle than they can properly feed, employ a rota-
tion -of potatoes, bear, and oats,*oy which the land, thus CODstant;-
ly cropped, is so exhausted, that in many places the force -of
manure cannot now make it yield an adequate return. Besides,
it is seldom properly drained or fenced, so that in winter it.is
commonly very wet, and injured by the poaching of cattle. As a
proof of the deteriorating effects of this system of husbandry, it
may be mentioned, that while the land cultivated by the large
farmers will yield on an average seven returns in grain crops, the
small tenants seldom obtain above four returns of bear, and as to
oats, they do no't calculate upon more than double the seed. The
potato crop is that alone which gives a really remunerating
return. The large farmers have leases of nineteen years' duration.
Small tenants have only one year's tenure of their land, which is
certainly a discouragement to them in improving their lots.
    Quarries.-The only quarries that have been wrought are on
the Melness, or west side of the Bax of Tongue, a flag,quarry
at Portvasgo, and a slate quarry at Talmine. Both are of the
mica-slate formation.' They, have been wrought to a considerable
extent, and have been found very useful for several country pur-
poses. The expense of quarrying, however, is too great to make
this a profitable trade, or to admit of much export, and according.-,,
ly it has of late beep. almost discontinued.
    Fisheries.-There is a salmon-fisbing upon the wator of Bogie,



