
                         DALLAS.                              199

   parish, is now entirely suppressed; and the effects of the change are
   very remarkable on the manners, comforts, and happiness of the
   people.
                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
      Rent of Land.-The average rent of land is from L.1, 10s. to
   L.2 per acre, and the duration of leases nineteen years.
      Waqes, &c.-The farm men-servants receive half,yearly from
   L.4 to L.6; women from L.1, 10s. to L.2; day-labourers, 1s. 4d.;
   women, 6d. per day, with victuals; masons, 2s. 6d.; carpenterst
   2s. 4d.; tailors, 1s. 4d. with victuals; for cutting peats, men re-
   ceive 1s. 4d., and women 8d. per day, with victuals.
                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Market-Towns.-There are no market-towns within the pa-
   rish; the nearest are Forres and Elgin, the former nine miles from
   the centre of the parish, and the latter twelve.
      There is only one small village in the parish ; it is situated
   on the north bank of the Lossie, distant from the church about
   two furlongs. It was feiied about forty-three years ago by Sir
   Alexander Penrose Cumming. It contains thirty-two houses. I
      Means of Communication.-As there is no post-office in the pa-
   rish, the letters,to the east district, called Kelles, are left at El-
   gin; and those to the west district, at Forres.  The county roads
   to Elgin and Forres are in good repair. Many of the other roads
   however, are in a bad condition.  There is a new road now form-
   ed called the Knockando road." It extends from For'res to the
   Spey, and will be of the greatest advantage to those tenants who
   inhabit the more hilly districts of the parish, where there is no road
   save the one alluded to.
      The flood of 1829 carried away the only bridge then in parish:.
   it was, upon the Lossie; and the want of it, when the river is swol-
   len, (wbich,is very often the case,) prevents nearly one-third of
   the population from attending church ; but there is ` bridge of
   three arches'to be built immediately upon the Lossie, a little below
   the church.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The church of Dallas, the only place of
   worship in the parish, is situated V' ery near the centre of the pa.
   risb. It is distant from the nearest boundary about four miles and
   a half, and front the farthest, six.  It was built in 1794, but was
   never finished nor taken off the workman's hands. The walls are
   neither plastered, nor the roof ceiled, and it is therefore in a very
   uncomfortable condition.  It accomodates only 400 sitters, and a


