
     Of Kirkmichael.

the issue of her husband's ailment, or the love-sick nymph,
that of her languishing swain, they visited the well of St.
Michael.  Every movement of the sympathetic sly was re-
garded in silent awe; and as he appeared cheerful or dejected,
the anxious votaries drew their presages; their breasts vi-
briated with correspondent emotions.  Like the Delai Lama
of Thibet, or the King of Great Britain, whom a fiction of
the English law supposes never to die, the guardian fly of the
well of St Michael, was believed to be exempted from the laws
of mortality.  To the eye of ignorance he might sometimes
appear dead, but, agreeably to the Druidie system, it was
only a transmigration into a similar form, which made little
alteration on the real indentity*.
   Among the branches into which the moss-grown trunk of
superstition divides itself, may be reckoned witchcraft and
magic.  These, though decayed and withered by time, still
retain some faint traces of their ancient verdure.  Even at
present, witches are supposed, as of old, to ride on broom-
sticks through the air.  In this country, the 12th of May is
one of their festivals.  On the morning of that day, they are
frequently seen dancing on the surface of the water of Avon,
brushing the dews of the lawn, and milking cows in their
fold.  Any uncommon sickness is generally attributed to
their demoniacal practices.  They make fields barren or fer-

     VOL. XII. 3 N

<FOOTNOTE>

*Not later than a fortnight ago, the writer of this account was much en-
tertained, to hear an old man lamenting with regret, the degeneracy of the
times; particularly the contempt in which objects of former veneration were
held by the unthinking crowd.  If the infirmities of years, and the distance of
his residence did not prevent him, he would still pay his devotional visits to the
well of St. Michael.  He would clear the bed of its ooze, open a passage for
the streamlet, plant the borders with flagrant flowers; and once more, as in
the days of youth, enjoy the pleasure of seeing the guardian fly skim in sportive
circles over the bubbling wave, and with its little proboscis, imbibe the Pana-
acan dews.
 

