
136                     ARGYLESHIRE.

prietors of Ardnamurchan and Susart.  History confirms the oc-
cupancy of this district by John, the son of Angus Mor, on whom
tradition bestows the designation of Iarl or Earl of Islay, as well as
the fact of the former being the progenitor of the clan Ian of Ardna-
murchan.  The grant of 1283 marks, though not with the preci-
sion of modern charters, the date of the passing of Ardnamurchan
into the possession of John of Isla, for that event may have pre-
ceded, or followed it in times when royal charters were often
merely the confirmation of rights already assumed, or a means of
obtaining them along with the more powerful agency of the sword.
The somewhat remarkable tradition of a Norse noble being in
possession about this period, is not invalidated by the fact of the
predominance of the native race having been completely establish-
ed on the mainland districts by the valour and talents of Somerled
about a century previously, or the cession of the kingdom of the
Isles itself to the Scottish king in 1266.  Ardnamurchan, pro-
jecting so far into the open sea, was in the direct course of every
Norse invasion, and the centre of the Norwegian principality of
the Isles; and being, moreover, connected with the mainland only by a
narrow isthmus or tarburt, over which boats were not unfrequently
drawn from sea to sea,-(a circumstance which suggested to Magnus
Barefoot the stratagem by which the more valuable and extensive
peninsula of Kintyre was made part of that principality,) may have
Anciently been held as part of the Norwegian territories.  At any
rate, Muchdragan may have held of the king or some great Gaelic
chief.  The district may, therefore, with all probability, be consi-
dered as the last footing of the once victorious Norwegians on the
west continent of Scotland, while in the deed of Evun, we behold
the final blow to the relics of their power.  Angus Og, son of An-
gus, Mor above-mentioned, the faithful adherent of Bruce, was con-
firmed in the possession of the district by that monarch.  Of him
his brother continued to hold the lands, and transmitted them to
his descendants, who possessed them as holdings from the Lord of
the Isles, with their others domains, until the forfeiture of the lat-
ter in 1493, when the clan Ian became vassals of the crown.
   There seems to be no doubt that the district of Sunart was, from
the time of their accessioun to Ardnamuurchan, in the possession of
this family; its position, in the absence of any documents showing
it to have been held by any other, warrants the assertion.  About
1493, claims to it were asserted by another branch of the house of


