
     of Preston pans.

July; but recover in August.  For this reason, the proper
season for dredging commences on the 1 ft of September, and
ends on the last of April.  The common observation is, that
the oyster season lasts during all the months in which the
letter R occurs.  But the fishers have not confined them-
selves strictly to these months; and this is another cause of
the scarcity*.  That the scalps may recover, it would be
proper to dredge very sparingly for a year or two, to take no
oysters but such as are sizeable, and at no time to dredge in
the months of May, June, July, and August.  The young
fry are said to acquire shells in 24 hours; but do not become
saleable in less than 2 or 3 years.  Oyster shells make an
excellent lime, remarkable for its whiteness.  They are used
likewise as a medicine.-Besides oysters, many other kinds
of fish+ are caught in their season; cod, skate, flounders,
whitings, mackerel) lobsters, and crabs.

   Boats.-The oyster boats are of different dimensions.
Some of the largest measure about 22 feet in keel, 26 aloft

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some of the aged inhabitants report, that, about 60 or 70
years ago, oysters were in little-estimation.  In a judicial de-
claration, emitted A. D. 1776, by a residenter here, then 67
years old, he deponed, that he remembered when there were
not above 3 or 4 boats employed: That they seldom caught
above 600 in a day; and that there was little or no demand, or
sale for them, at that period.

+Haddocks formerly were plentiful, but of late years they
have not appeared.  Two years ago herrings were caught in
great numbers near the town, in the month of August.  In
the parish records it is narrated, that in the fame month, A.D.
1695, the herrings approached fo near to the shore, that the in-
habitants went out with sieves and riddles to catch them.  It is
impossible to specify the prices of the last mentioned kinds of
fish, as they depend on the quantity caught, and, of conse-
quence, vary every day.  It is certain, however, that the prices
are more than tripled within there 20 years.


