
412                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ness, and often for six weeks togetber, nothing is mentioned but
the collection.  In July 1665, as we have seen, the minister re-
signed, and on the 4th of March 1666, we have these words, "the
qlke day Mr Robert Key, lait minister att Dumferline, was pre-
sentit to the kirke of Stow anct his edicke read."  This was the
first of the "curates" in this parish.  In July 1680, we have a si-
milar appointment of Mr Andrew Naughly, minister at "Kirkud-
break."
   This last person survived the Revolution.  During this period,
tradition says that most of the children were carried to Lauder for
baptism.  While the pious remnant met as Providence permitted
them, we are told by tradition, that they frequently assembled on the
hillside above the village of Stow, at a place called the Cross-
Cleughs.
   The sedulousness and labour with which the duties of elders
were then performed, would seem almost incredible in these times.
During the earlier periods, there were often two, three, and even
more meetings of session during the week, besides the fixed one
on the Lord's Day.  So early as ten o'clock on a Monday morn-
ing, we find meetings attended by Torwoodlee, and other elders
from the distance of five, six, or more miles.  The cases of va-
ried immorality, and particularly of uncleanness, were in number
and aggravation quite appalling.  The people were still but
emerging out of Popery, the dregs of which were as yet only pas-
sing away, under the influence of a purer and more purifying
faith.  In November 1626, we find fifteen new members of ses-
sion ordained, making up the whole number, including the minis-
ter, to twenty-one, and in the same month they enact "the salu-
tary precaution that none within the parish shall admit strangers
as tenants, or sub-tenants, cottars, or sub-cottars, who may be un-
der scandal in other parishes without a testimonial of their "ho-
nest lyffe and conversation from the minister and sessione of the
pariochin wt. in the qlk any shall have dwelt."  Great caution was
used also in giving testimonials, which always was a sessional deed.
When an application to this effect was made, the decision generally
was "delay till next meeting."*

<FOOTNOTE>As a feature of character that long survived Covenanting times--a feature that,
in the light and thoughtless may excite a smile, but which will fix the attention of the
moral investigator, I think it worthy of being stated here that, previously to a young
man being admitted as a suitor to one of the daughters of a family, "the booke" were
set befort him at the hour of domestic devotion which he was required to conduct.
This interesting and characteristic custom was mentioned to me by an aged gentle-
man, still alive, as practised in his younger days.



