
     Statistical Account

derson of Candraig, and Mr Farquharson of Allergue.
The earl of Fife has only a small property in the parish, 
but is superior of the whole, excepting the estate of Glen-
kindy, which holds of the crown; only Mr Leith and Mr 
Forbes of Achernach reside in the parish.  The mansion-
houses of Skellater, Inverearnan, and candacraig, are si-
tuated in the detached corner of Tarland parish above de-
scribed.  The valued rent of this parish is L. 3039: 1: 6
Scots; the real rent about L. 1600 Sterling.

   Stipend, School, Poor.-The King is patron.  The old
stipend is only L. 48: 6: 8, all in money, with some peats
and other services paid by the parishioners, and 20 merks
Scots for communion-elements.  A considerable augmen-
tation in victual was lately awarded, but by a subsequent
interlocutor that judgement has been altered; and as the last
decree thereanent is not yet final, still farther alterations
may be made; so that nothing certain can be said as to the 
stipend.  The glebe, so far as I know, has never been mea-
sured; but from the quantity of grain it requires for seed,
is supposed to be only about 2 acres arable, exclusive of the
manse and garden.  The minister has L. 20 scots for grass.
The kirk was rebuilt in 1757, but is at present much in
need of repairs.  It is spacious enough, but most irregular-
ly feated, and, therefore, does not properly accomodate the
parishioners*.-There is a parochial school, and school-

<FOOTNOTE>

   *For several years, the manse and offices were almost ruinous.  After
process of 2 or 3 years dependence before the Court of Session, the Pres-
bytery's decrees, for new houses, received their Lordship's fanction, and
they were all rebuilts in 1791; they have, however, been very insufficiently
executed.  The walls of the manse draw water, and part of the offices
are already unroofed; and if not repaired soon, will go to wreck.  Unfor-
tunately for any public work in this parish, the heritors are seldom una-
 

