
560                          PERTHSHIRE.

etymology of the name. Garaidh is a common Gaelic word, signi-
fying a den. The lake is about six miles in circumference, and it
abounds in large and excellent trout.
   Loch Tummel, teamhuil, signifying dark or shadowy, forms a
part of the southern boundary of the parish. It is a beautiful little
Highland lake, of four miles in length, and about three-fourths of
a mile in breadth. Its cultivated banks, and numerous hamlets,
and artificial island with its ruins, give it a peculiar aspect of cheer-
fulness. Si-chaillein with its barren dreary base, however, throws
a gloom upon the scene, which may lead one to say that the ap-
pellation is justly merited. It abounds in pike and in trout of su-
perior quality, and of the largest size. It is well known to afford the
angler excellent sport.
   Rivers.-The Garry is the leading and principal river of the
p`rish. It issues from Loch Garry, and, after running for thirty
miles, is lost in the Tummel, at the south-east extremity of the pa-
rish. It takes its name, like every other Highland river, from the
parent lake. In its course it receives many tributary streams, as
the Erichkie, the Bruar, and the Tilt. When flooded by a heavy
fall of rain, or by the melting of the snow in spring, it forms a large,
and rapid, and irresistible current, making destructive inroads upon
its gravelly banks, and owning subjection only to the rugged rocks
by which it is here and there confined.
   The river Tummel flows from the loch of that name. It is a
large body of water, and though its course be short, it is one con-
tinuous rapid stream from the lake to its magnificent fall.
   The Tilt flows from Loch Tilt, upon the summit of the Gram-
pians, and after a course of sixteen miles, it terminates in the
Garry at Blair. It is a beautiful mountain stream, whether con-
sidered by itself, or in connection with the glen and the scenery
through which it runs.
   Falls.-The fall of the Tummel is remarkable for the great
mass of water. Its height is about 18 feet. It is a grand and
beautiful object. The turbulent river, with its rugged banks and
lofty precipitous rocks, covered with birch to their very summits,
present to the traveller a scene of unusual magnitude and grandeur.
   The celebrated and well-known Falls of the Bruar consist of a
series of falls, the highest of Which falls perpendicularly, and is
about 60 feet in height. They have many natural and artificial
attractions. The deep and narrow chasm of the river, its rocky
and precipitous banks, its characteristic bridges, the well-dressed
                                4


