
<APPENDIX>

General Appendix to [Vol. i.

has appeared for these 28 years last past.  The coast affords
plenty of salmon, at least for home consumption every year,
and a great variety of excellent white fish, cod, ling, had-
docks, whitings, skate, slounders, etc.  No shell fish, except
a few crabs and lobsters.  Cod are in season from the end of
June to the end of February; ling and haddocks are the same.
Skate good at all seasons, when they can be got.  The white
fishing is mostly carried on by a society of people from Aber-
deenshire, who pursue their business with great diligence and
success; but they begin to complain of a scarcity of fish on
this coast, such as has sometime ago taken place on the east
coast of Scotland.  They used to sell their fish for a penny
per pound, 'till a man came from Edinburgh of late, and of-
fered them 1 1/2 d. for all that they could spare.  They likewise
send large supplies to Kirmarnock, Irvine, Paisley, and Glas-
gow.  They catch their fish by long lines with hooks and
baits fixed on them, at proper distances, and sunk to the bot-
tom with weights at either end.  The salmon fishing is ma-
naged by people of this country; and there are seven cobles
or fishing boats, usually employed with four men for each
boat, three for the river of Ayr, and four for the Doon, but
more or fewer as occasion requires.  They are permitted to
use six for each of the rivers, if needful.  The salmon fishing
at the mouth of Doon, which belongs to the Earl of Cassilis,
pays a rent of L 90 per annum, and there is a cruive about
six miles up the river, which pays L. 13 more.  The fishing
of Ayr river formerly belonged to Sir Thomas Wallace of
Craigie, but is now the property of the society of writers in
Ayr; and is rented at L. 85, together with the payment of
some public burdens, as L 1 to the town for each coble em-
ployed in the fishing, and L. 2 in all to the minister of Monk-
ton.  A few years ago, the price of salmon, in Summer and
Antumn, came as low as 1 1/2 d. per pound; but now, it


