
                                   KENMORE.                        477

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       The nearest market-town is Crieff, which is distant twenty-two
     miles.  But the high hill separating the valley of the Tay from Glen-
     quaich has to be crossed, rendering the communication with that
     town rather difficult and inconvenient. That with Dunkeld and
     Perth beinf in the line of the valley, is more suitable, and, though
     longer, is much more employed.  Dunkeld is twenty-three miles be-
     low the village of Kenmore, and Perth fifteen more, the principal
     villages, as already stated, are Kenmore, Sronfernan, and Acharn.
       Means of Communication.-The means of communication en-
     joyed by the parish are good.  The post from Dunkeld arrives
     here every day, but Wednesday, about five in the morning, and
     leaves Kenmore in return at two P. M. and there is a post
     three times a week to and from  Killin, the days being Mon-
     day, Wednesday, and Saturday, and the time of starting from
     Kenmore, nine A. M. and having to be back in the even-
     ing. The salary of the postmaster is L. 10 per annum; and the
     annual revenue of the office, which is sub to that of Aberfeldie,
     is about L. 60.  From the village of Kenmore, there diverge, be-
     sides the west entrance to Taymouth Park, no fewer than five
     great lines of road, and all in good condition. if the traveller be
     bent southward, he finds the outset for some hundred yards to be
     but one line, but it immediately strikes off in three branches,
     whereof one takes the side of the lake on towards Ardeonaig and
     Killin, a second, winding up the hill, forms the access to Glen-
     ptaich, Amulree, Glenalmond, and Crieff; and the third is the
     beautiful turnpike to Dunkeld; the other two being upbeld by
     the statute-labour money. If, on the other hand, the traveller's
     course be northward, he sets out on that side also by one line of
     road, across the Tay by a handsome five-arched bridge, bestriding
     that water just as it becomes a river, in which line he continues
     for several hundred yards, when, at the foot of the richly wooded
     hill of Drummond, he finds it going in two opposite directions.
     The left hand division is the fine turnpike leading by the base of
     towering Benlawers to Killin; the other is country road leading
     to the fords of Lyon, and passing at one point scarcely 300 yards
     from the Castle of Taymouth.  Through not turspike, it is not a
     whit inferior to that species of road, and as soon the Lyon has
     been crossed, rather a formidable feat at times, the great military
     read, one of General Wade's, now turnpike, leading from Crieff
     to Dalnacardnch, and so on to Inverness, is entered on, which is



