
     852                         FIFESHIRE.

     mired, quite entire, 20 feet high by 16 broad, with six mullions,
     and a great deal of tracery above.
        Pended Tower is a massive oblong building, connecting the
     Monastery with the Palace, and elegantly arched or pended be-
     neath, forming a gateway across the street, from which circum-
     stance it is commonly called the Pends (from pendeo, to bang.)
     What remains of it is 47 feet in height, 35 in length from north
     to soutb, 16 in breadth at the northern, and 181- at the southern
     arch. There had been a gate at the former one. The archway
     is groined with central ornamented keystones, and strong ribbed
     arches, and the windows present a fine specimen of the pointed
     and rounded style of architecture.
          Abbey Old Church.-This is all that remains of the ancient and
     large ecclesiastical edifice of this place, spared from the ravages
     committed first by the English in the -fourteenth century, and
     afterwards by the Reformers in their zeal against Popery.
        This part of the building formed the nave of the Abbey Church
     when completed, or the vestibule or passage to the principal por-
     tion of it, -where the choir was, as it now does to the Dew place of
     worship.
          Ancient Eastern Church.-The length of the choir or ancient
     eastern church within walls to supposed Lady Aisle, was 100 feet,
     and to supposed great altar 90 feet ; its breadth, clear of the co-
     lumns, 20 feet, and with these and side aisles, 65 feet. The length
     of the transepts was 115, and their breadth 73 feet. The ex-
     treme length of the whole ancient ecclesiastical edifice outside
     was 275 feet, and its extreme breadth 130.
         Till 1818, there were standing four very tall and beautiful Go-
     thic windows, which formed part of the north wall of the north
     transept of the Abbey, but which were removed at the commence-
     ment of the building of the New Church in that year.
        Royal Tombs-It is well known that the celebrated Iona or
     Icolmkill, in the Western Isles, was originally, and, for many cen-
     turies, the place of royal sepulture. But if the testimony of Boece
     can be credited on this point, as it has generally been, Malcolm
     III. changed it to Dunfermline, appointing the church which he
     had built there to be thenceforth the common cemetery, of the
     kings of - Scotland. It is certain, too, from other and older au-
     thorities, as the Chronicon de Mailros, Chronicon de Lanercost,
     Fordun, and Winton,'that Dunfermline church was so used from
     the time of Malcolm III., during many succeeding reigns. At


