
440                          AYRSHIHRE.

a-half, through his own coal-field and part of Lord Eglinton's, which
laid the upper part of several of the seams dry; and the coal
which was wrought at the townhead of Saltcoats and some other
places, was carried up, by stairs, on the backs of the wives and
daughters of the colliers.
	It was in vain, however, to turn out coal, unless it could be
taken to market; and as Dublin afforded by far the best mar-
ket, he saw the necessity of having a harbour at Saltcoats,
and accordingly he began his operations for this purpose about
1684, at what had till this time been called the Creek of Saltcoats.
The building of the harbour was a work of time, and difficulty, and
expense, as the winter storms often demolished much of what had
been reared in summer. But it was completed about the year
1700; and it remains till this day, as a monument of this talented,
enterprising, and public-spirited gentleman. The only aid he ob-
tained, was the excise, for nineteen years, of the ale used in the
parish of Stevenston, granted by an act of the Scottish Parlia-
ment; but as the excise duty was very low, and as there were few
to drink the ale in these days, he was not greatly benefited by
this. He constructed salt-pans also at considerable expense. And
as there were no steam-engines in these days, the water-wheel
which he formed, and the two gins which he employed, drawn by
sixteen horses, for freeing the pits of water, along with the ex-
pense resulting from his skilful survey of the coal-field, and the
building of the harbour, more than swallowed up his profits. From
this and other circumstances, he found it necessary to dispose of
much of his fine property. Kerila, with its rich adjoining ground,
he sold to John Hamilton, Esq. of Grange, in 1685. Ducathall
and Ardeer, and that large tract extending as far as the Misk, he
sold to the Rev. Patrick Warner, of Irvine, in 1707. On that
part of the estate near Saltcoats which he retained, he	built in
1708 the house of Sea Bank for his own residence. He died in
1715.
	At the time of his death, the public works were in a low state,
and a manager was appointed, who carried them on for two years.
Afterwards, the coal and salt-works were let to the shipmasters of
Saltcoats, for the yearly rent of L. 250. Having heard that stea-
engines had begun to be employed for pumping water, these
spirited shipmasters employed Provost M'Taggart of Irvine, who
had joined them in the lease, to go to London to purchase a steam-
engine, and to engage an experienced person to set up the engine,
				 3


