
126                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

instruction, daily and weekly, will be 180: a large proportion to
a population of 790, being at the rate of about 1 in 4 1/11 of the
whole inhabitants.
   Libraries.-At Salton-Hall, there is a fine library of upwards of
5006 volumes, consisting of works of general literature, but containing
few of more recent date than the middle of the last century. Amongst
its literary curiosities, may be mentioned a small folio copy, of the
original edition of "Locke on Human Understanding," with the
words "Andrew Fletcher, from the Author," written on the title-
page, probably either by the philosopher or the patriot. Allu-
sion has already been made to the library mentioned in Bishop
Burnett's will "for the minister's house and use." It appears to
have been originally commenced by a person of the name of Nor-
man Leslie, probably about the year 1650. Who this person was,
I have not been able satisfactorily to ascertain. A Norman Leslie,
a preacher of the Gospel, is mentioned in the records of the pres-
bytery of Haddington, in 1644, during a vacancy in the living of
Salton, as the person whom, along with a Mr Mill, the congrega-
tion wished to hear as candidate for the church; but neither of
these were permitted to preach. It is not improbable that this
was the person in question, and as he appears from the presbytery
records to have been well known to Sir Andrew Fletcher and the
parishioners, we may suppose him to have been a resident in the
parish or its neighbourhood,-who was interested in its welfare, and
who, although not permitted to become its pastor, was generous
enough to devote a part of his own literary possessions to the be-
nefit of those who should in future enjoy that office. In all the
oldest volumes in the library his name is written, and beneath it
the words xxxxx. Is it too fanciful, from
this to conjecture that, during the long vacancy in question, he
might have voluntarily and gratuitously ministered to the spirit-
ual necessities of the parish, and have thus recorded his disinte-
rested labours? But this is mere conjecture. At the time of
Bishop Burnett's induction, the library appears to have contained
145 volumes. From him, it received considerable additions; and
from the year 1760, when his bequest first became available, it
has been augmented by each successive incumbent, though, in
some instances, it must be confessed, not with all the judiciousness
of choice which might have been expected. It now contains 862 vo-
lumes, consisting chiefly of works on theology, with some in clas-
sics and history and a few in polite literature.


