
			    MELDRUM.                         479

The people enjoy in a reasonable degree the conforts and advan-
tages of society, and are contented with their situation and cir-
cumstances.
			    IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres, standard imperial, measure,
in this parish, which are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage,
is about 5774; and the number of acres which never have been
cultivated, but are planted or remain constantly waste, is about
1700.  Of this last number, a small, proportion upon the hill of
Bethelnie appears to have been formerly under tillage.  It is most
likely, however, that, owing to the poverty of the' soil, the crops and
not paid the expense of cultivation, and the land bad been allowed-
to fall back into its natural state.  Indeed, almost the whole land
in this parish that has not already been brought under cultivation,
would be turned to most profitable account by being-planted.  There
is an undivided common near Old Meldrum, extending to about
25 acres.  The rent of the best land around the town of Old Mel-
drum is L.4, 10s. per Scotch acre, and of inferior quality, L.3, 10s.
In the country districts, the average rent of the best quality of
land per Scotch acre is L.2, and of inferior quality from 5s. to L.1.
   Wages.-Farm-work is mostly performed by servants hired for
the half year ; the average rate of their wages is L. 5 in winter,
and L. 6, 6s. in summer.  Servants of a superior description ob-
tain higher wages.  Day labourers, in winter, earn ls, and in sum-
mer, 1s. 6d. with victuals.
   Live-Stock.-The Aberdeenshire breed of cattle is by far the
most common; and, as great attention has, for many- yeam been".
paid to the rearing of them, they are much approved of in the
southern markets.  Crosses have of late been introduced with the
Teeswater breed, which are said to feed well.  Sheep are of va-
rious kinds, as Southdown, Leicester, and crosses with the Scotch
hill breed.
   The usual duration of leases is nineteen years, and the con-
ditions are in general sufficiently liberal and favourable to the oc-
cupier.
   The state of farm-buildings is good, being adapted to the value
and situation of the farms.  The methods employed for reclaim-
ing waste lands have been judicious, and draining to a consider-
able extent has been successfully executed.  As an evidece of
the improvement of agriculture, it may be mentioned. there the
Prize which was bestowed by the Aberdeershire Agricultral As-


