
                          LARGS.                          799

their name.  In the fourteenth century, Donald Earl of Lennox
granted a charter of the lands of Mucherach and Holmedalmar-
tyne, in the Lennox, to " Alano dicto Brisbane, filio quondam
Willielmi Brisbane."  Chart de Levenax, p. 61. *  Thomas and
Alexander Brisbane are witnesses to a charter, in the thirty-second
year of David II., 1361, granted at Kyndromy, by Thomas Earl of
Mar, and which is confirmed by the King.  Thomas Brisbane is wit-
ness to a charter by Robert Duke of Albany, dated at Perth, 22d
September 1409.  The earliest estate which seems to have belonged
to this family was that of Bishopton, in Renfrewshire, which they
held prior to 1400; and they had then acquired the L.10 land of
Killincraig and Gogo in this parish.  To these several additions
were made; and in 1595 the whole were erected into the barony
of Gogoside.  Other possessions having been acquired by the fa-
mily, the whole were, in 1650, erected into the barony of Nod-
dle.  Soon after this, having acquired the property of Overkel-
soland, which long had belonged to the family of Kelso, the whole
estate was, in 1695, by a Crown charter, erected into the barony
of Brisbane.  The House of Brisbane is situated in the vale of
that name, and is of considerable antiquity, and surrounded with
some fine old trees.  The present proprietor, Sir Thomas Mac-
dougal Brisbane is a man of high celebrity, as well for his valour
in the field, as for his labours in the cause of science.  He mar-
ried the heiress of Makerston, in consequence of which he unites
the name, honours, and estate of that family with his own.
   Frazer of Knock.--This family was a cadet of the Frazers of
Lovat, and acquired the estate by the marriage of the heiress about
1400.  They continued to flourish for about 250 years; after which
they declined, and the estate was broken up and passed into other
hands.  Pont says that " Knock is a pretty dwelling, seatted one
the mane occeane, and veill planted."  The ruins of the house
still remain.  The property now belongs to John Wilson, Esq.
who, with laudable zeal, has recently adopted means to prevent
the ravages of the climate on the venerable remains of what was
once the " pretty dwelling" of the Frazers.
   Montgomery of Skelmurly.--The lands of Skelmurly in this pa-
rish were, with other lands, given by Alexander, first Lord Mont-
gomery, in 1461, to his second son, George, who married Ann,
daughter of Sir John Houston of that Ilk.  The house is plea
santly situated on an eminence commanding a prospect of great
beauty and extent.  It is thus noticed by Pont: " North Skel-

<FOOTNOTE> * Contribution of Alexander Campbell, Esq. to the Maitland Club.


