
                     SOUTHEND.                            435

     Poor and parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
   receiving parochial aid is 40, and the yearly average sum allotted
   to each person is 10s. per annum.  The annual amount of contri-
   bution for the relief of the poor arising from church collections,
   I,24; hasty marriage money, L.5: total, L.29.
     Inns.-There is one inn in the parish, situated near the village;
   and four other houses in which spirits are retailed.
     Fuel.-The operation of manufacturing and carrying home peats
   for fuel is attended with great expense of time and labour.  There
   is an inferior kind of coals in the neigbbouring parish of Camp-
   belton; but they are at the distance of ten or twelve miles from
   the most populous districts of the parish.

                        MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     In the year 1793, the rental of the parish was L.3000: it is now
   nearly L.8000. And nearly double has been added to the arable
   land by draining and cultivation.
     The disadvantages to which the parish is liable are, want of
   timber and want of enclosures, scarcity of fuel, leases too short.
   The culture of wheat, in a certain proportion, ought to be adopted
   into the agriculture of the parish, since, where barley grows, wheat
   may very often be successfully produced.
     Cottagers ought to be more encouraged.  The Mull of Kin-
   tyre has been converted into an immense sheep-walk, under one
   Company, and is now occupied by 6000 sheep.  This was half-a
   century ago, a great pastoral country, which then reared and sup-
   ported thirty or forty families, whose ancestors had occupied that
   remote and extensive region for ages.
     The erection of a pier or quay at Dunaverty bay would not
   only prove a lasting benefit to the parish, but also greatly enhance
   the value and sale of the raw producer by enabling tenants to ship
   their grain, potatoes, &c. direct for the Clyde and other places,
   where there is always a ready market, instead of being exposed to

   the add Bible to the said John, and that he received his obligation for the same, of
   the date the 16th day of November last, which obligation was produced in presence
   of the presbytery, and appointed to be recorded in fiaturam rei memoriam"
     Polloweth the tenor of the obligation granted -by' the said John MINeill for the
   above-mentioned Irish Bible: " I, John M' Neill of Tirfergus, grants me to have
   recieved  from Mr R. D., minister of Campbeltown, (according to the appointment
   Of the presbytery of Kintyre), the church Bible of the Irish character, bestowed by
   the Honourible Sir Itobert Boyle an the parish of Southend of Kintyre, which
   Bible I oblige me to restore sound and entire, and to deliver the same to the mi-
   nister of the said parish or to the presbytery when required, under the penalty of
                            In witness whereof, I have written and subscribed the pre-
    sents at Campbeltown, the 16th November 1692 years. Sic Subscribitur Jo. M'NEALL."


