
30                       DUMBARTONSHIRE.

day from Glasgow to Dumbarton, and the villages to the west.
There is a stage-coach daily from Duntocher to Glasgow. But
the chief means of travelling are the steam-boats on the Clyde,
which pass up and down almost every hour of the day. There are
four stations for taking on board and landing passengers by means
of small boats; one at the Brick-house, one at Erskine Ferry,
one at Bowling, and one at Dunglass. The length of the turn-
pike roads is twelve miles, and of the statute labour roads sixteen
miles, all in excellent repair. The Forth and Clyde canal inter-
sects the parish for about five miles, from which the chief advan-
tage is the bringing of coals and manure. Letters are conveyed
by a branch of the Glasgow post-office. There is an arrival,
morning and evening, from Glasgow, and one every evening from
Dumbarton. There is a departure every evening for Glasgow,
and every morning for Dumbarton.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is conveniently situat-
ed, being about four miles from each extremity of the parish,
lengthwise, and there are not above two houses five miles distant.
The church was built in 1812, and is in good repair. According
to the plan, it was to contain 790, but, in fact, there is not seat-
room for more than 750 or 760, at eighteen inches a sitter. All the
sittings are allocated to the heritors. The manse was built near-
ly forty years ago, and repaired in 1829. The glebe contains
about 8 Scotch acres, besides the garden, and may be valued at
L. 32 per annum. The stipend was decreed at last augmentation
(which was in 1833) to be 18 chalders, half meal and half barley.
But the teinds were exhausted before obtaining the stipend de-
creed. The present allocation bears 200 bolls, 5 stones, 2 lbs.
meal, and 55 quarters, 4 bushels, 3 pecks, 1 gallon, and 1 quart
barley, and L. 7, 19s. 8 1/2d. money.  This was farther reduced by
an error discovered in one of the allocations. A surrender of the
teinds was made in this instance, and now it stands 7 bolls, 2
stones, 9\b8\p8\10 lbs. meal, and 1 quarter, 6 bushels, 3 pecks, 1 gallon,
1\p1\b4 quarts, barley, and 5s. 7 1/2d. money, instead of 20 bolls, 2 stones,
2\b1\p5\b0 lbs. meal, and 5 quarters, 3 bushels barley, and 6s. 4d.
money. The allocation was decreed final on 26th January and
16th February 1833, during a vacancy in the parish. If this mat-
ter be stirred again, it is to be remarked that no allowance was
made in the modification for the difference between the Old Dum-
bartonshire measure, in which the. valuation mas made, and the
new measure, in which the modification was made. This difference


