
56                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

there are from twenty to twenty-five miles of fences of this de-
scription.
   It may be worthy of remark, that, about fifty years ago, the late
Sir Robert Anstruther improved the Mains of Watten most ju-
diciously, enclosed it with hedges and dikes, built a steading on
it, and laid it out in the best style. The late Mr Horne of Lang-
well was the first to follow his example on his property of Wester
Watten above-mentioned, which, from being almost entirely waste
and unproductive, was converted, under the able management of
Mr James Purvis, now manager to Mr Traill of Ratter, into one
of the finest, as it certainly is one of the largest farms in the north
of Scotland. What his uncle did to Wester Watten, Mr Horne
of Scouthel, well known for many years past as the greatest and
most successful improver in this county, has more recently done
to his property of Lynegar, also in this parish; and Sir R. A.
Anstruther of Balcaskie, the principal proprietor in the parish,
has, for some years past, been pursuing a most admirable system
on his extensive estates, viz. that of granting, on improving lease,
moderate-sized farms, regularly subdivided, fenced, and intersected
by good roads, with all requisite encouragement to the tenantry,
as respects draining, manure, comfortable dwelling-houses, &c.
His tenantry are amply supplied, at a low rate, with marl raised
by dredging in a small loch adjoining the west end of the parish.
   It is the opinion of many, that, under such circumstances as
these, the system of moderate-sized farms would eventually prove
the most advantageous to the landlords in a pecuniary point of
view, as it certainly would in a moral and economical, both to
them and to the country at large, being the only means of pre-
serving a class of men now fast wearing out, and whom the rapid
extension of sheep-farming threatens in many districts to annibi-
late altogether-the substantial peasantry of Scotland, the trus-
tiest bulwark of the aristocracy, and the best defence under Pro-
vidence of the altar, the throne and the constituthon ; a class of
men among whom religion, morality, and good order have flou-
rished more than among any other; a class who are seldom ap-
preciated as they should be, and whose services may be most
needed when they cannot be had.
   A wonderful stimulus has been given to agriculture, and the
rearing of improved stock in this parish, as well as others in the
county, by the easy access to the southern markets, opened up
by steam within these few years, for fat cattle and sheep, a great


