
     of Fintry.

time, till the beginning of the hay harvest.  This, were there no
other obstacle, is a powerful bar to agricultural improvements,
as the only time of the year, in which the farmers can carry
lime, is spent in preparing and securing their fuel.  It is to
be hoped, however, that this obstacle will soon be removed.
An attempt is just now making to find coal upon the estate
of Culcruich, and appearances have hitherto been favourable.
Whatever may be the ultimate issue of this search, great praise
is due to Mr. Spiers for his indefatigable exertions, in promot-
ing every measure that can contribute to the prosperity of the
parish*.

   Roads and Bridges-Till within these two years, the access
to Fintry was extremely difficult on all sides, insomuch, that
had it not been rendered easier, no improvement could have
made its way thither.  The difficulty was even so great as
almost to forbid any attempt to remove it.  A hill, almost
perpendicular, over which horses could scarcely crawl with
half a load, cut off the communication with Campsie and
Glasgow, from which side coal could only be got; and deep
moor and moss obstructed the approach on the N. and W.
These obstacles, seemingly insurmountable, are now happily

     3 B 2

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The MODE OF BORING, which he has adopted, is such as must ascertain,
without a doubt, whether there be coal in the country or not, and may serve as
a lesson to others, who may have occasion to make trial or coal in hilly countries.
The top of the hall consists of a very thick bed of whin stone, below which
there is a bed of free-stone equally thick Beginning at the bottom of the
free-stone, which is half a mile up the hill, with 10 fathom bore, he takes the
level of the bottom of this bore down the side of the hill, making allowance for
the dip and run of the metal,where he bores again to the depth of 10 fathoms,
and so on, continuing till he reaches the level of the river.  In one of these
bores there was found last week a small crop seam of coal, which it is to be hop-
ed is the forerunner of one of greater consequence.  If the attempt succeeds,
it will be of the utmost importance to a tract of country for 10 miles round,
the greatest part of which lies at present 20 miles from coal.

</UNREADABLE>


