
               ARDCHATTAN.                                 501

reverse the names, London, Cambridge, Oxford, all in good pre-
servation. What has since become of them has not been ascertain -
ed. Among the wilds of Glenetive, near the river, and on the farm
of Invereolan, there is alarge upright stone, to which cattle and their
keepers often resort, finding that here they can have "in cold ashel-
ter, and in heat a shade."  To this place, in the year 1830, a shep-
herd betook himself; and while the tempest was spending its fury
around him, he thought of amusing himself and beguiling the time
by striking the point of the walking-stick which he held in his hand
in the ground beside him.  To his surprise, he throw up something
which proved to be a silver coin; and on searching with some care,
he found about thirty others.  These coins were also of the reign
of Edward, and similar to those picked up at Balmaddan.  Some
of them were given to the late Mr MacDonald of Dalness, and
others were obligingly offered to the acceptance of the parish mi-
nister.  It is not unlikely that they were deposited in the place
where they were found, before the owner set out on some predatory
excursion, from which be never returned.
Modern Buildinqs.--Tbe most extensive of these is Lochnell
House.  It was originally built by Sir Duncan Campbell, but ad-
ditions were made to it by his stccessor, General Campbell, on
which he expended upwards of L.15,000.  It is now a spacious
and handsome building.--Barealdine House, embowered in woods,
is, from its recent alterations and additions, rendered a commodi-
ous residence.--The House of Inverawe is pleasantly situated on
the banks of the Awe, and at the base of Ben-cruachan, and is
surrounded with fine old trees; but as the family lived in Porth-
shire, the house and garden here have beer; less attended to than
they would had the proprietor been resident.--Drimvuick House,
the residence of Mr Campbell of Baleveolan, though not large, is
a comfortable dwelling-house.--The church, opened for Divine
service in 1836, without any pretensions to elegance, is a commo-
dious place of worship.--There are a few good farm-houses; and
where school-houses have lately been built, there is a manifest im-
provement on the poor concerns which formerly went by that name.

                      <TABLE III.-POPULATION.>
     	The population of Ardchattan in 1841 amounted to  1452
        Of these there were males,      .      .      .    725
                            females,    .      .      .	   727
        The population of Ardchattan in 1831 amounted to  1650
	Of there there were males,      .      .      .    851
	                    females,    .      .      .    799


