
                      GLENELG.                                137

       and indifferent who go thither become confirmed in their spiritual
       deadness, whilst those of them who quit their native land under
       more serious impressions, also yield to the secularising influence of
       such an order of things; and though they retain their integrity, and
       hold fast their profession in their day, yet, leaving no successors,
       the harps which for a time bad awakened echoes, that previously
       enjoyed an unbroken sleep, are at last hung upon the willows,
       and the Songs of Zion cease to be heard by the streams of the fo-
       reign land!  How worthy this subject of the consideration, of a pa-
       triotic and parental Legislature!  Nay, how imperative that the
       thousands who yearly go to swell the population of our growing co-
       lony, should not be left to perish for the lack of knowledge!
       Number of families in the parish,       .       .       .       .      .    511
                          chiefly employed in agriculture,     .       .      .    211
                                       	   in, trade, manufactures, or handicrafts, 61
         Language.--Glenelg being a purely Highland district, the lan-
       guage spoken is almost exclusively Gaelic.  A few individuals un-
       derstand a little English, and are able to speak it;,but Gaelic is
       the language in which all business is transacted, and will probably
       long continue to be so.  Here, as throughout the whole High-
       lands, there exists the greatest ambition for the acquirement of
       English.  Without it, it is well known there is little probability
       of advancing in the world; but from the system pursued in our
       schools, the progress hitherto made in introducing English has
       been limited indeed.  The disadvantages under which our High-
       land population labour in acquiring knowledge from this cause,
       are unspeakable; and it were well worthy of those whose atten-
       tion is now directed to the subject of training teachers for the
       duties Gf their important office, to take into consideration the ob-
       stacle which has to be overcome in reference to our Highlan
       youth, and to devise the mode by which this may be fairly expect-
       ed to be done.  The simple reading of English is easily taught;
       but the difficulty lies in making this language the medium of com-
       munication with the minds of our youth.  If children who under-
       stand English require what is called the intellectual system, i. e. the
       translation of complex into simple terms, Highlanders require a
       double translation; this, and also the second rendering into their
       mother tongue; and all, moreover, with the aim of ultimately sub-
       stituting the more for the less perfect language.
         With ordinary advantages the population of this parish might
       certainly be much raised in the scale of intelligence, being natu-
       rally remarkably acute, shrewd, and active.  With this character,


