
136                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

several hundread men, and niarched against Sinclair, to dispossess
him of his patrimonial estate.  Keiss collected a force of 400
tea, and awaited his enemy in the borough of,;Wick.  There he
plentifully regaled his followers -, who had not recovered from their
revelling, when, on the 13th of July 1680, they were informed
that the Campbells were crossing the country towards Keiss.  In-
flamed with drink, the men of Caithness vauntingly rushed on the
men of Qleaor,by, who were strongly posted on the western bank
vf the burn of Altimarlach, on thenorthern side of the River of
Wick, close above what now forms the upper glebe.  A total rout
qUtbe revellers immediatelyensued, who turned their backs and
Red through the gully towards the -river.  Numbers were killed
An attempting to cross; and tradition says, that the Campbells, in
porsuit of the fugitives, passed o   ver -the river dry-shod, on the
bodies of the slain.    Notwithstanding this disaster, the right of
Sinclair of Keiss to the title of EaFl of Caithness was at1ast re-
Poognixed, and Glenoreby was created, as a sort of compensation,
Maron of Weik.
The Baron of Weik was bated by the people.  They burned
the corn and houghed the cattle of the tenants on his estates'; till
at last, utterly weaned with these incessant vexation;, he divided the
whole of his lands in Caithness into sixty-two portions, great and
small, which he rold in 1690.
In thistransaction terminated the civil history of the parish of
Vielk.  Nothing has since occurred within it worth recording.
Land-owners.-The principal land-owner is the Right Ho-
n
, ourable Benjamin ]Dunbar Sutherland, Baron, of Duffits, and a Ba-
ronet.  Lord Duffus is paternally descended from Nicholas Stither-
loan cond, se   d son of Kenneth, Earl of Sutherland, who married Mar-
jory de Cheyne, second daughter of the celebrated hunter, Morar na
$hien.  Marjory was heiress of Duffus, and likewise of Auld Wick
In this parish, of which . her descendant is proprietor at ihis day.
The , otber laucl-owners are, William Horne, Esq. of Scouthel,
w1io possesws in ff the'parish of Wilck, the estates of Stirkoke and
'$i4ster ; Robert Innes, i Esq. of Thrurnster  Kenneth Macleay, Esq.
of,Keiss and Bilbster; John Sinclair, Esq. of Barrock, proprietor
Wick. of Howe: awad Mireland -; Sir George Sinclair, Dart of
Ulbster    the Earl of Caithness, of Mirelandorn ; William Sin-
c4ir,,.9sq, OfFreswick, proprietor in, Wick, of Nvbster; the Bri-
$odoty for improving the fisheries., are feudatories, under Lord


