
48                        BUTESHIRE.

of lime in agriculture. The salmon enters the rivers in July, and
return in October. No Fishing are let.
   Seals and otters are found along the shore. The sea around
the whole parish is well stocked with fish of all descriptions.
Haddock, whiting. mackerel, seath and cod abound. Ling and
turbot are caught off the Southend; but the fishermen engaged in
taking them are almost all from the Ayr coast. Lobster and
crab fishing is carried on by the natives about Kildonan, for the
Glasgow market. At the Northend, the herring-fishery is carried
on with great spirit, skilll, and success by the inhabitants, who in
a great measure depend upon it for their subsistence.
   Conchology.---The following is a list of the rarer shells of the
parish, drawn up by the Rev. Mr  Landsborough of Stevenston.

Patella clypeus  	Amphidesnia compressum       Nucula nucleus
Bulla lignaria		Lucina flexuoss 	     Terebratula aurita
Clagtulla labices 	Scalaria clathrus            Astarte compressa
Scalaria Turtoni	Tellins squalida             Venus cassina
Troehus magna 			 crasm	             Cairdium extguum
Verus corneus 		Venus fasciata    		       medium
Amphidemia pubescana    Venerupis-virgines           Pactuneulous pilosus

			   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   There are few events of historical interest connected with this
parish, except such are common to the other islands of the He
brides, till the time of King Robert Bruce. After, his disastrous
defeat at methaven, and his perilous escape at Dalry, he retired
with a few of his most influential and intrepid adherents to the
small island of Rathrin, on the north coast of Ireland. There under
the protection of the Lord of the Isles, he spent the winter of 1807
signing as he viewed the dark and distant hills of his beloved
country,
	      " O Scotland, shall it are be mine
	       To wreak thy wrongs in battle line,
	       To raise my victor hands, and see,
	       Thy hills, thy vales--thy people free!
	       That glance of bliss is all I crave.
	       Betwixt my labours, and the grave."--Lord of the Isles.
   On the returm of spring, he crossed over to Arran, whither he
had been preceded by Lord James Douglas and Sir Robert Boyd,
who, on his landing.
         " Net him like friends who part in pain
         And most in doubtful hope again"--Ibid,

   Amid the forest and fastnesses of Arran, he could live conceal-
ed from his enemies  who lay on the opposite coast of Carrick,
while his proximity to its chores coubled to obtain the cur-
lined and picurats  intelligence of their situation and their


