
     Statistical Account

horses and oxen mixed together, both of a very indifferent
kind.  There are 3 or 4 wains or waggons drawn by oxen,
and ploughing with a pair of horses is introduced.  The grain
raised here is oats, bear, or barley and pease: A very small
quantity of either rye or wheat, though for the latter, both
soil and climate, in various parts of the lands of Balveny
and Kinninvie, are well adapted.  It is reckoned good and suf-
ficient bear, which weighs about 18 stones the boll Banffshire,
which is nearly the Linlithgow measure or standard for Scot-
land: And 16 pecks or a boll of oats, in a favourable sea-
son, will yield about 8 stones of meal.  Potatoes also are rais-
ed, and found very useful.  And there is some flax; the ex-
periments of which show, that it might turn out a profitable
article, if the management of it, after being pulled, were bet-
ter understood, and if there were a ready market.  It is at
present but a bye kind of a crop, and therefore neglected.
For want of skill and attention in the grasing, watering, and
milling, it is often much injured.  Failing in success through
bad usage, it unjustly receives the blame; and the farmer is
discouraged from extending his attempts.
   This parish, which is a plentiful one, after supplying itself,
can, in the opinion of some of the most intelligent on this sub-
ject, spare, in ordinary years, about a thousand bolls of bear,
and five or six hundred of oats and oat meal.  The oat seed
season is from the beginning of March, or sooner, if the wea-
ther will allow, till towards the end of April.  And bear is
sown from the middle of April, to near the end of May.  Bar-
ley harvest, generally speaking, begins about the first or se-
cond week of September; and the oats may be said to be
reaped in the month of October, though sometimes earlier
and often later.  Early oats, which have been much and be-
neficially used since the 1782, ripen almost in the same time
as the bear.  After the winter snows, however, or heavy rains,


