
214                          WIGTONSHIRE.

the north side of the bay of Portnessock, and is formed by a circu-
lar excavation from the solid rock, connected, by a natural archway,
with the sea. This opening is shut up with an uncemented stone-
wall, which effectually secures the prisoners and allows a free en-
trance and exit to the tide. The pond is always kept well-stock-
ed, especially with cod, lythe and coal-fisb, and a few flounders. A
salmon, red and grey gurnard, and sonie other small species have
sometimes, by way of ornament and variety, been introduced; but
the salmon lives only a very limited period, and the smaller soon
become the prey of the larger inmates. On descending by a
rude stair to the surface of the water at a larfe stone-flag, the fishes
forthwith repair to this spot, where many of them, with their heads
above water, are eager to receive from the hand of their keeper their
usual treat of limpets. On such occasions, the keeper may be seen lift-
ing one into her lap, putting a limpet into its mouth, patting it on the
head, and returning it to its native element. It appears somewhat
uncomfortable and impatient when put through this ceremony, but
does not resent the liberty she takes with it, by any subsequent pet
or shyness. She firmly believes that they not only hear, but that
they can distinguish her voice from that of a stranger, and she re-
lates the following occurrence as one of her proofs: During a very
high tide lately, the sea so injured her house, that she was obliged
to leave it, and reside for some days in the village of Port-Logan.
Part of the wall surrounding the pond was forced into it, several of
the fishes were killed or hurt, and the rest so alarmed, that they re-
mained at the bottom, and would not venture to the surface, till she
uttered her wonted call, when they immediately repaired to their
feeding station as before. Being on such a familiar footing with
her finny charge, it is not to be wondered, that she should have a
struggle with her feelings, when consigning one of them to the
care of the cook.
	Manufactures.--Kelp was formerly manufactured in consider-
able quantities, but, owing to its low price, is now entirely given
up.
	Navigation.--There are four small sloops belonging to Dru-
more, of 16, 25, 29, and 37 tons burthen respectively. They are
employed in exporting farm-produce, and importing lime and boals,
or otherwise engaged in the coasting trade.

		      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--There is no market-town in the parish. The
pearest is Stranraer, at a distance of about 18 miles from the


