
12                         AYRSHIRE.

ing into elevations of considerable height. The portion lying ad-
jacent to the coast, and extending from the one stream to the
other, is nearly one continued level. This last section of the pa-
rish is composed of sand and gravel, when we descend to any
depth below the immediate surface, which, through the influence
Of cultivation, has, in the course of time, been changed from its
natural state.  Along the line where this flat surface begins to
rise into elevated acclivities, a very considerable depth of moss
earth is very generally found, and in some places, where excava-
tions have been made, singular alternations of this moss earth with
fine sand have been disclosed. These substances are in this case
found in regular strata, evidently formed by water. The surface
on the elevated portions of the parish, on the other hand, is com-
posed chiefly of clay mixed with water-rounded stones of the trap
or whinstone species. In general, therefore, the parish may be
described as presenting a superficial district of no definite geo-
logical character, the external surface being covered with a dilu-
vium, or broken mass of sand, gravel, and clay, intermixed with
the water-worn detached whinstones already mentioned.
   This covering, of disintegrated materials hides completely the
rocks on which it lies; and hence it is only by analogy--by com-
paring certain portions with the neighbouring strata, which are
known, that its structure can be ascertained. When the rocks
in their original bed are seen, either along the course of the
rivers, or in opening quarries, or digging for coal, they are
found to belong principally to the trap or whinstone species, like
the boulders on the surface. Along the course of the Ayr, indeed,
a coarse red-coloured sandstone appears, but in other parts the trap
prevails. The uppermost geological character of the whole parish
thus evidently belongs to the coal formation. This useful mineral,
however, which forms the great source of subterranean wealth in
the neighbouring districts, has tended but tittle to enrich the pro-
prietors in this parish. Here coal has been worked only for a
few hundred yards within its northern boundary. Indeed it may
be said that, except in its very extremity, at the embouchure of
the river Ayr, no minings for coal have succeeded. Even here the
workings are supposed to be exhausted, and after having been tra-
ced for a short distance southward, the veins have ended or dis-
appeared, and the works have been discontinued. The seam is
about three feet eight inches in thickness, and the quality. is of the
kind called splint coal, the same bed apparently that has been for


