
     Statistical Account

years to come.  Mr. Guthrie of Guthrie is patron*.  The
school-matter is well qualified for his office.  The salary, in-
cluding kirk dues, may be between 11 L. and 12 L. Sterling.
The school fees are the fame as those of Kirkden.  The scho-
lars are numerous, but the southern part of the parish can
reap no advantage from the school.  The weekly collections,
and the interest of a smal1 sum of money, are found sufficient
for the maintenance of the poor, of which there are at present
only two supported by the public funds, and two or three who
receive small sums occasionally.

   Population.-The people, almost without exception, are
sober, industrious and contented; and a few excepted, all
belong to the Established Church.  The return to Dr. Webster,
in 1755, was 584 souls.  By a particular enumeration, taken
in 1792, the number, ages and professions of the inhabitants,
appeared to be as follows:

<FOOTNOTE>

*The parish was erected into a provostry by one of his predecessors, as ap-
pears by the following citation from an old author, who had written an account
of the different dioceses of Scotland.
"Guthrie, in the shire of Angus or Forfar, was a collegiate church, founded
"by Sir David Guthrie of that ilk, who was Lord High Treasurer in the reign
"of King James the III. for a provost and three prebendaries, the number of
"which was afterwards increased by Sir Alexander Guthrie of that ilk, his son
"and heir, who was slain at the battle of Floudon, in the year 1513." Hen-
ry Guthrie, bishop of Dunkeld, was descended of a younger ion of this ancient
family.  Families, like individuals, often rise to strength and notice, and de-
cline again into weakness and obscurity, sometimes suddenly and sometimes
more slowly.  This old family seems not yet the worse of age.  John Guthrie,
Esp; of that ilk, possesses a fine estate in the shire of Angus, though his prede-
cessors, were advanced to the highest honours, as far back as the reign of James
the III.


