
			CRAWFORD.                            335

affords material assistance to the miners in supporting themselves
and their families during the present depressed state of the mining
concerns. At this moment, when the capabilities of spade labour
engage so much attention, it is surely consolatory to know from
experience how much it can effect on coarse lands, and at an ele-
vation of 1300 feet above the level of the sea.
	The prevailing diseases are, rheumatism, hernia, and affections
of chest, especially the last. The men engaged in reducing the
ores are occasionally seized with the painters' colic, or, as the
smelters term it, " mill-reek;" but from the improved construction
of furnaces, the disease is becoming less frequent. It, however,
causes a considerable mortality among animals, both wild and do-
mestic; and though the symptoms vary in the different species, yet
in all they exhibit the usual effects of the poison of lead.
	Mining District of Leadhills.--The mines are of considerable
celebrity, and have in all probability been worked from a very re-
mote period, although the written documents reach no farther
back than the year 1600. It is well known that lead mines were
opened by the Romans in England; and as one of their principal
military roads passed through the parish, and the remains of seve-
ral of their camps in this and the adjoining one are still visible, it
may be reasonably supposed that people possessed of so much in-
telligence might have discovered them.
	The mineral district comprehends a space about 3 miles in
length by 2 1/2 in breadth, and is principally composed of greywacke
and greywacke slate, which range from south-west to north-east.
These strata are associated with transition clay slate, called edge
metal, from its vertical position, through which, the metalliferous
veins pass. A basaltic, or, if I may be allowed the expression, a
basaltic-greenstone vein, crosses the country from east to west;
it is 50 or 60 yards in breadth; and the detached masses on the
surface, in many instances, have a pentagonal form, and seem as if
tbey had been acted on by fire. Specimens of calcedony are
found in it, but they are coarse, and of little or no value.
	A thick bed of flinty-slate also occurs among these transition
rocks, which on each side degenerates into a clayey substance,
which, by weathering, becomes very white and soft, and if properly
examined may be found useful in the arts. This bed points south-
west and north-east, is vertical, and the lead veins do not pene-
trate it. The veins appear to the north, but are too poor to be


