
            508                            PERTHSHIRE.

	    a moderate expense; and there is scarcely, a single householder
            who does not possess a pig
               Poaching, &c.-Poaching was once very prevalent.; but it is be-
            lieved that it is now on the decline.  Smuggling also, at one time,
            Prevailed exceedingly in thig quarter; but it may be said to be now
            altogether relinquished.
               Character of the People.-The general character of the people,
            also intellectual, moral, and religious attainments, is much the same
            with that of the inhabitants of most of our overgrown Scottish
            villages. "The tradesmen here," says the author of the former
            Statistical Account, " very few individuals excepted, are all on
            a level; no one chooses to serve another after he understands bu-
            siness himself.  When the young weaver has finished his appren-
            ticeship, and acquired as much free stock as will purchase a loom,
            furnish a room, and defray the expense of a wedding, he scorns to
            be a journeyman ; but sets tip for himself, marries a wife, and be
            comes the father of a family." The weavers commonly train
            their sons to their own occupation; the boys are set to the loom
            are very early age; their apprenticeships are short; and, by the
            time they are fifteen or sixteen years old, they are as expert at
            their business, and able to earn as much as their fathers are
            themselves.
                                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
               Agriculture.- There are, as already stated, about 3800 impe-
            nal acres in the parish,  quoad sacra; and these are either planted
            or cultivated, with the exception of about 60 acres, which are in
            course of cultivation, and the ground occupied by the streets and
            houses in the village.  The plantations may cover 550 acres, ex-
            clusive of about 10 acres of coppice, and the trees are generally
            a, mixture of diffev*nt kinds, many of them intended more for or-
            nament thau use.  They are usually interspersdd with firs, as
            nurses for the hard-wood, and the nurses are removed, as soon as
            they are not for palings, to leave room. for the ornamental trees to
            grow.
               There few sheep kept, except by the proprietors for their
            own use, and bx the butchers for the use of the public. Any
            oxen which are grazed are merely put into condition for the
            home consumption, or for the south country market; and this
            kind of stock maybe changed two or three times in the course of
            a season.  But it is important to remark,  that Crieff enjoys pecu-
            liar advantages in regard to butcher meat.  Not less than 1500


