
       264                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

          Lakes.-There are four fresh water lakes in this parish,-Lochs
       Achnacloich, Patavieg, Coinneag, and Charnac.  None of them
       is of any great extent, the largest not exceeding half-a-mile in
       length.  The only one of them which merits notice on account of
       its scenery, is Achnacloich.  It is situated in a small but beautiful
       and secluded glen.  At the lake's eastern extremity, there is a
       lovely sylvan amphitheatre, from whence a view'can be command-
       ed of almost unrivalled majesty.  Standing in this sequestered
       spot, surrounded on three sides by wood, the spectator has imme-
       diately before him the quiet lake, bordered by its beautiful fringe
       of birch and alder; while, to the west, may be seen a wilderness of
       hills, stretching to an apparently interminable distance, and heap-
       ed together in seemingly chaoti confusion, Ben Wyvis with its
       "diadem of snow," proudly towering above them all.
          Rivers.-The only stream of any magnitude connected with
       this parish, is the water of Alness, which forms the boundary be-
       tween this and the neighbouring parish of Alness.  It is a wild
       and romantic river, and will very amply repay the lover of the pic-
       turesque, for his trouble in visiting it.  There is one place, in par-
       ticular, on the banks of the river called Tollie, which is of surpas-
       sing beauty, and affords not a few scenes worthy of the painter or
       the poet.
          The river of Balnagown, which falls into the bay of Nigg, has
       its source in this parish.
          Geology and Mineralogy.-A large part of the parish is com-
       posed of that red sandstone referred by geologists to the old red
       sandstone formation.  In the upper part of the parish, the soil is
       a clayey loam incumbent on the red sandstone, and containing a
       number of rolled blocks of coarse granite, gneiss, &c. In the
       lower part, the soil varies considerably, " being partly gravelly
       and light, partly loam, and some a deep and strong clay."  In the
       middle of the parish, on the property of Culcairn-, there is a very
       extensive bed of shell marl, amounting to perhaps from fifty to
       seventy acres.  It is, however, little, if at all, used,-as lime, which
       is preferred, can be obtained easily, and at a moderate price.
       There are large tracts of moss in the parish, in which considerable
       quantities of fir and oak are found imbedded.
          Zoology.-Of quadrupeds common to the parish, we may men-
       tion the red-deer (Cervus elaphus), the roe (C. capreolus), the fox
       (Canis vulpes), the badger (Ursus meles), the weasel (Mustela vul-
       garis), the marten (M. foina), the polecat (M. putorius), the ot-



