
     of Forfar.

ture secure the good institution of youth, and raise the schools
to some degree of celebrity*.
   The church, situated near the centre of the town, has been
rebuilt within these few years, on a plan calculated to contain
2000 hearers.  The fabric is elegant and commodious, but
disgraced by the contiguity of the old-people and spire, the
battlement of which it over-tops by 12 feet at least.
   The town house has also been lately rebuilt; the front in
the market place has an agreeable effect, but the apartments
for prisoners are dark, damp, and dismal, almost excluded
from the sun, and the free circulation of common air; and
the general utility of the whole fabric seems to have been sa-
crificed to the attainment of one large upper room for public
business and amusement.  The cupola, also intended for an or-
nament, conveys a mean idea of the genius of the artchitect.
It is evident, alas! for the unhappy prisoner too evident, the
genius of Howard fat not at his elbow, when he meditated
this wretched design.
   The slaughter house, lately in the very centre of the town,
has been very properly removed to the north side of it; which,
besides ridding the place of a noisome and dangerous incum-
brance, must contribute to the health of the inhabitants.
   The air of Forfar may be said in general to be salubrious;
occasional fogs arise from the lakes and low grounds in the
neighbourhood, but have nothing particularly noxious in
them.  Epidemical distempers sometimes appear, but they
are not more fatal than in other neighbouring communities,

     3 U 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Within these few years the manse has been repaired at a considerable
expence at two thirds of the money which would have built a commodious
one from the foundation; and yet it is a manse still standing in need of re-
pair; a proof among many of the inattention of heritors to their own inte-
rest.  Were such public works finished substantially at once, they would cost
them less trouble and less expence.


