
     of Crieff.
heather, lintseed, rags, raw hides; lint, wool and raw
cotton; linen and woolen yarn; dyers stuffs; iron craft and
in bars; foreign food, etc. etc.  For conveying these 
goods and manufactures, 2 carts go regularly once a fort
night to Edinburgh; 2 carts or more once a fortnight to
Glasgow; 4 carts twice a-week to Perth; and two or 3 
carts twice a-week to Stirling.

   Markets.-There is here a weekly market on Thursday
for all kinds of butchers meat, poultry, butter, cheese, etc.
Of the flirt article, there is ten times more fold now than 
years ago; each kind too was then to be got only in
its most plentiful season, pork in winter, veal in spring,
lamb early in summer, mutton from the middle of summer
to Christmas, beef from Lammas to Candlemas, when it
almost totally disappeared for six months.  Now that ar-
ticle never fails, and commonly fells 4d. veal 3 1/2. or
4d. mutton 5d. 4d. or 3d. according to its rarity.  Of Six
butchers that constantly supply the market, one last year
fold in it 73 bullocks, 620 sheep, and calves without num-
ber; of which last, sometimes 30 are fold in one day.  Du-
ring the season wherein the inhabitants of the town and ad-
jacent country lay up powdered meat for winter and spring,
butchers from other parishes bring great quantities to mar-
ket;  so that in November last, the value of L. 200 has been
fold in one day, reckoning 300 sheep at 8s. and 16 black
cattle at L. 5 a-piece.  That season, however, includes only
the months of October, November and December, in which
more meat is fold than in all the rest of the year*.  Till

   *Besides the weekly market, there are three annual fairs.  The first,
St Thomas market on new-year's day, for shoes, home-made cloths,
chapmen's wares, etc.  The next, Duchlage market, on the 3rd Tuesday
of June O. S. for the same purposes, and also for the sale of country
cattle, which can never be expensive while they are forced to stand in a
square of the town.  The third, and formerly by far the most consider-
able. is Michaelmas market, on the 10th October.


