
				FALKLAND.				921

	moak and Strathtmiglo.	The greatest length of the parish is
	about 6 miles, and the	greatest breadth 4.
	  Geology.-This forms  an extremely interesting portion of the
	statistics of the parish.   The structure of the Lomonds exhibits,
	in a condensed outline,	the geognosy of the entire district; while
	their isolated and elevated position renders the various strata a
	subject of comparatively easy investigation. The builder, and
	agriculturist, and miner have been long acquainted with their rich
	mineral stores; nor did the cupidity of the miner, in a former age,
	want materials on which to exert itself. A very brief sketch can
	only here be given.
	  The old red sandstone skirts the northern boundary of the pa-
	rish, and constitutes the lowest of the sedimentary deposits. The
	best sections of this rock are seen near to Strathmiglo, where it is
	of great thickness, and is much prized for building material.
	Some of the beds are extremely fine and close-grained; others
	assume a brecciated or conglomerated character. It abounds in
	orcganic remains, chiefly belonging to the genus Holoptychius.
	There are also innumerable spherical spots, of a whitish colour,
	diffused throughout the mass. This rock dips generally to the
	south-east, at an angle of 10/d1,-the outcrop of the beds rising to-
	wards the Ochils.
	  Resting upon the old red, beds of yellow sandstone next occur,
	which are likewise of great thickness, and contain organic remains
	similar to the former. The two deposits are conformable in their
	dip and inclination. On the farm of Lappa, their junction is ex-
	posed in a rivulet which issues from Glenvale,-a deep ravine in-
	tersecting the Lomond ridge towards the western extremity of the
	parish. The lower beds are of various colours,-red, brown, blue,
	white, and yellow alternating with each other; and the whole in-
	termixed with thin bands of clay, containing nodules of limestone.
	The yellow sandstone, as well as the old red on which it rests,
	traverses the valley of Stratheden, passes through the shires of
	Kinross and Clackmannan, and has lately become the subject nf
	much geological interest and speculation. Next to Dura Den,
	towards the eastern extremity of the county, the parish of Falk-
	land contains some of its finest sections.
	  The two rocks now described constitute the base of the Lomond
	ridge. The superincumbent materials all belong to the under
	coal formation, and consist of the usual beds of sandstone, shale,
	ironstone, coal, and limestone. The lower beds of sandstone are     


