
422                           FORFARSHIRE.

stripe of the parish extends from the eastern termination of this
chain of hills down to Airlie Castle. This stripe of land is bounded
on the north by the Isla, and on the south by a small rivulet which
separates the shires of Forfar and Perth. The lowest of the
mountain-ranges of Glenisla is about 1400 feet above sea-level.
From the foot to the centre of the parish, they are bleak and un-
interesting in their character. Northward from thence, they gra-
dually assume the attributes of real alpine scenery, and terminate
in the Glassmile, *--a mountain which is upwards of 3000 feet
above the level of the sea.

	Mount Blair, from its isolated position, is the most conspicuous
hill in the parish. It belongs to the western bounding range,
which is indented on the north and south sides of this mountain
by narrow passes leading into Glenshee and the district of Black-
water. Mount Blair is of large circumference, and elevated above
the level of the sea about 2260 feet. On the east and west it is of
moderate acclivity, and is often ascended by strangers for its com-
manding view. On the other sides it is steep and broken. It
has two summits;--the lower one flat and of a longitudinal form;
the other one precipitous, and crowning its southern verge. On
gaining the top of this precipitous summit, the toils of his ascent
are, in clear and serene weather, immediately forgotten by the
tourist, from the extensive and varied views which present them-
selves. His eye ranges with delight over the rich and beautiful
districts intervening between him and the German Ocean, the
Lammermoor, Pentland, and Ochil Hills, which bound the pros-
pect on the east and south,--while he beholds, in the opposite di-
rections, Shichallion, Ben-Mac-Dui, Ben-A'an, and Lochnagar,
raising their mighty forms amidst an ocean of mountains.

	Hydrography.--There are several perennial springs in the pa-
rish of great magnitude and purity. Of these the Lady Well,
close by the manse, and thd Well of Coryvannoch, near the base of
Mount Blair, are the most noted. The temperature of the former
is 48&deg;, that of the latter 46&deg;. The Coryvannoch Well, although not
a chalybeate, was, in former times, much resorted to by the people
of the district on the first Sabbath morning of May. It was then
considered to be particularly efficacious to sickly children, more
especially about day-break. The parents of such failed not, in

<FOOTNOTE>There is a prop of stones on the western verge of the Glassmile, which is de-
serving of notice by reason of its locality,--resting, as it may be said to do, upon
three parishes,--Glenisla, Kirlmichael, and Crathie;  and also upon three counties,
--Forfar, Perth, and Aberdeen.


