
                           ABBOTSHALL.                               149

  Geology, and Mineralogy.-The greater part of this parish, in com-
mon with the district around Kirkaldy, is composed of rocks of the
two great formations, that of the Carboniferous limestone and the coal
strata, with an intermixture of trap rock. The Carboniferous lime-
stone is well displayed in the quarry of Innertiel, which, although
not in Abbotshall, deserves notice in this place, as affording the best
section of that strata which runs through the parish. In that quarry,
the Carboniferous limestone is in thick beds, with interposed seams
of dark-coloured calcareous shale. The limestone is quite full of encri-
nal remains; and Many of the rarer portions of dncrinites, viz. the
bases, fingers, and even the bodies in a pretty perfect state, may be
extracted from the loose shale. Trochites shewing great variety and
delicacy in their markings are also abundant. The following species
of enerinites (following the nomenclature of Miller) were met with,
after a careful search in the shale, by a scientific friend of the writer of
this Account, who lately resided for a short time in the parish.-
Cyathocrinitesplanus, C. tuberculatus, C. rugosus, C. quinquangularis,
Platycrinites levis, P. rugosus, Poteriocrinites tenuis, and Rhodocri-
nites. Of all these Cyathocrinites tuberculatus, which Miller states to
be rare in England, was the most common. There is, in the limestone,
also abundance of Orthoceratites and Terebratulites, and a variety of
other shells. The Chapel quarry, which is the principal one of the
kind in this parish, is of limestone of the same formation, and exhibits
large encrinal columns, sometimes an inch and a-half in diameter,
and Orthoceratites nearly two feet long. Some rare forms of cal-
careous spar are also to be met with in cavities in the limestone.
The Carboniferous limestone is much interrupted and disturbed by
trap rocks, which rise here and there to the surface. Upon it, rest
the coal strata which run through this district, and which contain
valuable seams of coal. Amid this variety of fossilr, freestone is
also to be met with, and is used for the common purposes of build-
ing. For the better sort of houses, however, and the more orna-
mental parts of buildings, the Collelo stone, or some other of a si-
milar kind, is generally preferred. Coal being profitably worked by
some of the proprietors in the immediate neighbourhood, there are
no pits open at present in this parish. The inhabitants, however, are
well supplied with that article of fuel, and at an easy rate. The
nearest colliery is that at the back of the, town of Kirkaldy, belong-
ing to Sir John Oswald, where the price of coal is 7s. 7d. per ton
of 21 cwt. At the colliery of Dysart, belonging to the Earl of
Rosslyn, the price is 7s.; and at the colliery of Cluny, belonging to


