
     Statistical Account

have heard it often taken notice of, as an error in the
farmers of this neighbourhood, that they were not suffi-
ciently careful to have their grounds cleaned by summer
fallow, before they manured them with Edinburgh dung*.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The advantages are de-
rived almost entirely, perhaps, from the vicinity to the
capital, where the demand for whatever the ground can
produce is constant and great.  The farmer feels these
advantages in every branch of his transactions.  The straw 
of his corns, and even his chaff, become objects of con-
siderable value from this circumstance.  The landlord is
sensibly benefited, from the great increase of rent which
these circumstances produce.  Another advantage this pa-
rish possesses is, from being very conveniently intersected
by the two great roads which lead to Glasgow; by which
means, the communication with the Edinburgh market
for carriages is convenient and easy.
   One of the disadvantages is, the distance from coal,
Corstorphine being almost equally removed from the coal
mines in the E. or the W. parts of the Lothians.  The
lower grounds of this parish suffer much inconvenience

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Labour.-The wages of ploughmen, and other labourers em-
ployed in husbandry, and who are hired yearly, or at the end of every half   
year, are extravagantly high in this parish, and are lower than in many
other places of Scotland, particularly in the counties of Roxburgh and Ber-
wickshire.  Servants who are married, and have families, besides pecuniary-
emolument have such a recompense, in carriage of fuel, in meal, and other
necessaries of if, as renders their situation comfortable.  The average increase
of the wages of men and women servant's within last seven years, may
be reckoned about one-third.  The wages of mason and carpenters are in a
higher proportion than those of servants employed in husbandry; perhaps, this
is owing to the to the capital, where then labour, for many years, has
been so much demanded.

</UNREADABLE>


