
     of Dornoch.

ny manufacturers settled here, would stand, in this respect, in
the like predicament.  The poor, who cannot afford to buy,
are in a miserable situation.  They have to go a great way
to collect burdens of whins, broom, etc.; nor does the dry dung
that lies scattered on the fields escape them.  To meliorate
the condition at once of the land and of the tenants, it is evi-
dent, that such very small possessions as many of them have,
should not be permitted to exist.  In the present state of the
country, they would not furnish a comfortable subsistence, if
they had them for nothing.  There are, indeed, six large
farms in the parish, from 30 L. to 90 L. Sterling, rent, There
are also some others, of competent size, under the first men-
tioned sum:  But many small tenants are crowded into one
possession, and others settled on small detached portions, al-
together inadequate to their support.  Each of these has his
plough, however poorly provided of cattle; it is but little
service they are fit to perform, and that little they cannot do
from the smallness of their holdings.  The granting of long leases,
to poor people, in these circumstances, appears not advisable,
because they are not in a situation to avail themselves of them.
Previous to leases, it would, perhaps, be expedient to pro-
vide otherwise for the supernumerary tenants, that the rest
might he suitably accommodated:  the aged should not be dis-
turbed, but the younger supernumeraries (manufactures being
first introduced) might, some of them, be employed in these,
and others in the service of the tenants.  Many of the pre-
sent tenants would make a good exchange by this; they
would, as the hired servants of others, be better fed and
clothed than they now are, and would at the same time be
relieved from their present solicitude, and responsibility to the
landlord.  In fact, this is very much the case now among the
small tenants:  the servant lodges and fares in every respect as
well as his employer; the former receives his wages, while

     VOL. VIII.   C


