
                         HOUNAM.                           193

   The subsoil in the low ground is generally gravel or sand, ap-
parently resting on water.
   Peat abounds in the upper districts of the parish, where there
are a number of peataria extending to some hundred acres.
   Zoology.-The parish has long been remarkable for its improved
breed of sheep, * which are all or nearly all Cheviots; and only a
few crosses of Cheviots and Leicester, on some of the farms in the
lower districts. They are much esteemed for the delicacy of
their mutton; and the fleece is remarkably soft, and sometimes very
fine.
   The only animals certainly existing in the parish in former times,
and which have now disappeared are, Lutra vulgaris, Sciurus vulga-
ris, and a species of deer which frequented the upper districts. Ursus
meles, and Mustela putorius, have only disappeared from the parish
at a comparatively recent period. M. vulgaris and Vipera com-
munis are still to be met with. Vulpes vulgaris is no stranger here,
and is destructive to lambs and poultry.
   The parish is not distinguished by many of the rarer species of birds.
We may enumerate the following: Gallinula chloropus, Tetrao te-
trix, T. Scoticus, Numenius arquata, Buteo nisus, Fringilla carduelis,
F. linaria, Turdus merula, T. musicus, T. torquatus, T. viscivo-
rus, Sturnus vulgaris. Ardea cinerea, Anas boschas, and Larus ca-
nus, are occasional visitants to the waters. Charadrius pluvialis
and Vanellus cristatus breed in the upper districts, but draw towards
the coast, and spend the winter on the low lands that border the sea.
Scolopax rusticola and S. gallinago make their appearance in flocks
about the month of November, and remain with us for a few days
on their way south. The latter breeds here, but not numerously.
Motacilla Regulus, (one of the Sylviada) sometimes visit us in flocks.
Alcedo ispida is also an occasional visitant to the waters. Black
and red game, with partridges, are all abundant.
   Trouts of various sizes and of peculiar excellence are produced
in the Kale, which has been long the resort of the fisher. Its
tributary streams abound in trout of rather an inferior flavour.
Leuciscus phoxinus, Gasterosteus aculeatus, Cobitis barbatula, An-
guilla vulgaris, are all abundant. Petromyzon marinus is to be found
on the sides of sandy banks. The only fish which now seems ex-
tinct, and which used to be very plentiful, till of late years, is the
parr. In the floods of October and November, great quantities of

<FOOTNOTE>The parish is chiefly indebted for its improved breed of sheep to the late Messrs
Charles and John Robson, while they were in possession of Chatto and Philogar farms.
   ROXBURGH.                                     N


