
154                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

   Character of the People.-The peasantry possess all the qualities
which have long characterized the same class in Scotland. They
are distinguished for intelligence, and, for the most part, are exem-
plary in their habits. No ardent spirits are sold in the parish,
and therefore they are seldom tempted to deviate from their
ordinary sobriety. The tenantry and their binds or farm-ser-
vants generally follow the occupations of their fathers, and with
"sober wishes" they pursue "the noiseless tenor of their way,"
unseduced by the allurements that are usually found in a crowd-
ed population. The cottages of the poor in general present inter-
nally an appearance of the utmost cleanliness. Their dress at
church or at market approaches to elegance. Most of them pos-
sess abundance of solid and wholesome food; and there are few
cases of real privation. They seldom change masters, and on
some farms most of the servants have remained during the currency
of more than one lease.
   There have been two illegitimate births during the last three
years.
   The number of families in the parish is 84.
                          IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-This parish contains 6500 acres of land; 4750
of these are cultivated; and the remaining 1750 are waste, where-
of about 80 acres are covered with wood.
   Husbandry.-Two or three of the farmers have long enjoyed
celebrity as improvers and breeders of stock of all descriptions.
The stock principally consists of cattle of the improved short-
horned breed, and of the Leicester and Cheviot breed of sheep.
The cultivated land, too, has been highly improved. Much waste
ground has been reclaimed, and the benefits derived from this
source have been such, that the present tenants can keep as much
stock as those of former times, and have, besides, all the addi-
tional grain yielded by the improved land. A considerable por-
tion of the remaining waste land (probably 450 acres) is suscep-
tible of cultivation, and is fitted either to produce crops, or to be
laid down in pasture. The crops raised are, oats, barley, and wheat,
-of which the two latter are the most prevalent. The turnips
were, at an early period, infested by the bad root; the only remedy
for which that has yet been discovered is abundant liming; and
even this has been but partially successful. In not a few instances,
like every other expedient, it has failed to revive the sinking hopes
of the husbandman, doomed to witness the baneful effects of this
desolating scourge. The duration of leases is nineteen years.


