
                            JOHNSTONE.                         167

positively excluded,) wag established by a general subscription in
the year 1828. The funds were increased by a very handsome
donation from the principal heritor, by means of which, with the
quarterly subscription of the members, (chiefly heads of families,)
it amounts to above 300 volumes.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
roceiving regular parochial aid is 16, and the annual sum allowed
to each may average L. 2, 5s. They have all of them free houses,
with plenty of peat fuel for the trouble of casting, and, through the
kindness of the family at Raehills, who take a sort of hereditary and
exclusive charge of the needy amongst us, our industrious females,
who are able to do a little work, are provided with employment in the
way of spinning, &c. and, upon the whole, our poor are altogether
well cared for. The whole amount of annual collections, &c. in-
cluding the interest of L. 280, in the hands of the family of An-
nandale, for which 5 per cent. is allowed, may be L. 65.
        Inns, &c.-There are neither inns, nor alehouses kept here, nor
do they seem to be required as a public acconanodation. The
proprietor, Mr Hope Johnstone, following out the views of his
predecessors, has carefully prevented the establishment of dram-
shops on his estates generally, and particularly in the parish of
Johnstone; and there is no doubt that, should this practice, so pa-
triotic and enlightened, be generally adopted by influential persons
throughout our land, much injury to the health and morals of the
community would be prevented.
        Fuel.-The greater proportion of this article is dug from the
extensive peat-mosses in the parish; the average labour and
carriage of which may amount to about 30s. per annum for each
householder. Coals are but little used, in consequence, chiefly of
their great distance.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATION.
There are, we believe, few, if any instances of a parish uncon-
nected with manufactures, and whose inhabitants depend exclu-
sively for support upon the cultivation of the soil, increasing so
rapidly in population as this has done within these last forty years.
During this period the external aspect of the parish has been en-
tirely changed, by its roads, its enclosures, and its improved sys-
tem of husbandry, but more especially by the number of comfort-
able dwellings eracted fot he accommodation o the labouring-
classes. These houses have been built partly at their own expense,



