
			PARISH OF GLAMMISS.

	PRESBYTERY OF FORFAR, AND SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

                  THE REV. JAMES LYON, D. D. MINISTER. *

                I.-TOPOGRAPHX AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-THE name seems to be descriptive of the most striking
natural feature of the parish. A burn flows in a ravine down its
centre, for some miles, and crosses a ridge of high grounds imme-
diately above the village, through a very deep and romantic rocky
gorge, in which there is a waterfall; and thereafter, the ravine con-
tinues rough and rocky, and the rush of water along its bottom,
particularly in winter, makes a murmuring sound. In somewhat
similar situations, where there are ravines in the district, the af-
fix iss, yss, eis, which signifies an obstruction or barrier, is common
in the names of places, with some descriptive prefix; and in this
case Glamm, noise or sound, seems to be so applicable, that no rea-
sonable doubt need be entertained on the point, although etymo-
logists have hitherto been at a loss about the derivation of the name.
	The parish constitutes a portion of the southern side of Strath-
more, or great plain, situated at the foot of the Grampians, and re-
markable for its extent and fertility,-and stretches from the centre
of that strath to the summit of the Seidlaw hill which bound it
along the southern side.
        Topographical Appearances.-In respect to the configuration of
its surface, it presents three general divisions. The northern
side of the parirh, extending from near the town of Forfar, westerly
along the centre of the strath, for, about five miles and one in
breadth, is comparatively flat,-for although undulated into nu-
merous gentle swells and hollows, yet all tbe summits of the swells
are much upon the same level; and this quarter ranges beetween
160 and 250 feet above the level of the sea. The contral por-
tion stretches along the northern face of smooth and gently upris
ing grounds, from the water of Dean in the bottom of the strath; the
summits of some of which attain an elevation of from 500 to 700

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Dr Lyon, assisted by Mr Blakadder, civil-engineer.


