
                                 LOGIE.                          229

the duty on spirits has been lowered, smuggling in all its branches
has disappeared.
                             IV.--INDUSTRY.
<TABLE=Agriculture.->
Number of acres, Scotch measure, in cultivation, (of which about 3000 are carse, and
    1000 dryfield,) about      .      .          .           .     4000
In pasture, about        .        .          .          .          5000
Under wood, about   .       .        .            .                1000
                                                           .
The land kept continually in pasture is confined to the hill
ground.  Part of this was at one time in cultivation; but it was
found that it could not be cultivated to advantage, owing to the
climate and the expense of management.
   The wood in this parish is chiefly planted. It consists of fir,
larch, oak, ash, elm, plane, beech, &c.  On the whole, the ma-
nagement, with regard to thinning, &c. is good.  The neighbour-
ing country is supplied with wood for farm-buildings, palings, and
otheragricultural purposes, from the Airthrey plantations, by means
of a saw-mill erected on the property.
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land in the parish
may be estimated about L. 2, 10s. per acre. Rents in the Kerse
are generally payable in grain, converted into money, according to
the fiars' prices, 2 1/4 bolls wheat per acre being about the average.
The average rent of grazing on the low ground for a cow or ox
probably from L. 2, 1Os. to L. 3, and for a sheep on the high
lands, about 4s. 6d.
   Rate of Waqes, &c.--The rate of wages for labourers is 10s.
per week, summer and winter; masons and carpenters, 2s. 6d. per
day.
   Live-Stock.--The common breeds of sheep in this parish are
the black-faced and the Cheviot. The wool of the former has
been much improved by crossing with the Leicestershire breed.
The Cheviots have been lately introduced, and are likely to prove
advantageous. Considerable attention has been paid to the breed
of milk cows. They are principally Ayrshire. The breed of
draught horses has also been carefully attended to.
   Leases.--The duration of leases is generally nineteen years,
which is commonly considered favourable to the occupier. The
farm-buildings are, in general, in pretty good condition. Wedge-
draining is almost universal in the Kerse farms, and is of the very
greatest benefit.
   Husbandy.--The system of husbandry pursued in the Kerse
is a six years' rotation, viz. fallow, wheat, beans, barley, hay, and


