
192                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of old a chapel at Cranston, which served the lord and tenants of
the manor.  The monks probably retained this chapel till the
Reformation dissolved such connexions.  The manor and chapel-
ry of Cousland were annexed to or merged in the parish of Cran
ston at the Reformation. The chapel stood on the south side of
the village of Cousland, where its remains may still be  traced;
with its almost forgotten cemetery.  It was probably dedicated to
St. Bartholomew, as some lands near it retain the name of Bar-
tholomew's Firlot.
  Extent, &c.- The parish of Cranston extends about 5 miles in
length, and 3 in breadth.  It is bounded by the parishes of Inver-
esk and Ormiston on the east; by Crichton, and Borthwick on the
south; and by Newbattle on the west and north.  It contains 4778
acres, and is somewhat in the form ofan hour-glass, being very
narrow in the middle.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.-There are neither mountains
nor hills, but the face of the parish is unequal; and the gentle swell,
ings of the ground, the picturesque valley of the Tyne, the noble
seats on its banks, with the intermixture of enclosures and planta-                                                               tal
tions, render it very beautiful.  The prospects from the higher
grounds are rich and extensive.  The climate is mild and salu-
brious. The river Tyne runs through the parish from south to
north, and though here but a small rivulet, it widens in its pro-
gress before it falls into the Forth at Tyningham near Dunbar.
   Quarries, of freestone or sandstone and limestone, and several
coal-pits belonging to Sir John H. Dalrymple, and William Burn
Callandar, Esq. are wrought in various places and make a good
return.  Coals are sold at 10d. per load, lime at Is. 1Od. per
boll.  Many petrifactions have been found, and even some live
toads are said to have been found imbedded in the solid lime
stone rock.  A great many boulders were dug out of the new line
of road between Pathhead and Fordel.  The direction and dip of
the strata and beds of coal are in some places from north to south,
in others from east to west; the depth of the pits is from 14 to 25 fa-
thoms; the thickness of the seams is from l6 inches to 4 feet.  The
sail consists partly of clay, and partly of light land.  The whole is
arable, fertile, and well adapted for producing all kinds of grain.
There are some very large trees in the grounds of Oxenford Castle
and Prestonball.  At Cakemoor there is a plane tree 26 1/2 feet round
at the base.  The soil appears to be most congenial to larch, beech,
and elm.


