
716			AYRSHIRE.

per day, for five days of the week, and nine hours for the remain-
ing working day.
	In 1834 a mill for the spinning of flax was erected by Messrs
Wilson and Jamiesons, in the same locality as the power-loom
manufactory, which has ever since been in full operation. The
machinery is driven by an engine of 16 horse power, and the work
employs 150 hands, who receive about L. 130 a fortnight in wages.
The men are paid from 12s. to L. 1, 18s.; females about 6s.; and
boys and girls from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per week. The hours of work-
ing at both establishments are the same.
	On the opposite bank of the river, and at a short distance west
of the above manufactories, is an extensive bleachfield belonging
to Messrs William and James Knox. They commenced the bu-
siness, at least on its present enlarged scale, in 1829, which they
have ever since conducted with great skill, spirit, and success.
They are chiefly employed by the thread manufacturers of Beith,
and bleach, annually, about 140,000 lbs. of linen thread yarn, be-
sides finishing about 1800 lbs. of coloured threads weekly. The
number of hands in their employment has averaged, the last three
years, from 90 to 100, who receive between L. 70 and L. 80 per
fortnight in wages. The men are paid at the rate of from 12s. to
L. 1; females from 5s. to 7s. 6d.; and a few boys and girls, 4s.
weekly. The hands in this employment work ten hours a day,
or sixty hours per week, and, when working extra time, are paid
proportionately. In addition to this extensive business, the Messrs
Knox have recently erected in the vicinity of the bleachfield a
mill for spinning flax, which, when in full operation, will employ
between 60 and 70 hands.
	A rope-work, commenced, a few years ago, deserves likewise
to be noticed in this enumeration of the several branches of ma-
nufacture lately introduced here. It employs, on an average, 20
spinners, men and boys, the produce of whose labour, consisting
of band and common twines, finds in part a market on the spot,
but the most of which is sent, we believe, to Paisley for disposal.
	All these works, besides affording a very fair remuneration and
support to those engaged in them, have brought a great deal of
money into circulation, increased considerably the value of pro-
perty, and benefited not a littIe the farmer by the proximity of a
market for much of his produce, as well as many of the shopkeepers
and resident handicraftsman. There is, however, one class of
intelligent operatives,--the hand-loom weavers, of whom there are
			           6


