
                                KILBRIDE                33

luable part of the island to the Blackwater river. There are also
two excellent roads which communicate with the parish of Kilmorie;
one made by the Duke of Hamilton from Lamlash to Bennicarra-
gan, in the district of Southend, and the other a Parliamentary road
from Brodick to the Blackwater in the Chiskan district. To render
the inland communication of the parish complete, it would be
extremely advantageous to continue onward to Lochranza the road
which terminates at Sannox, and to build a few additional bridges;
one over Ashdale Burn,and other two on the rivers of South and
North Sannox. There are harbours at Lochranza, Corrie, Bro-
dick, and Lamlash. The three latter have quays attached to them,
but not of sufficient extent, being accessible to vessels only at high
water. There was at one time an excellent quay at Lamlash,
fit to admit vessels of every size at all states of the tide. It was
built in the times of the Duchess Ann of Hamilton, who planned
it on such a scale, that though the wages of masons were then
only 8d. and those of labourers 4d. per day, and the materials with
which it was built quite at hand, the week cost L.2913. By a
piece of gross mismanagement, this admirable quay was some thirty
or forty years ago allowed to be used as a quarry for erecting the
village of Lamlash;--a measure of which the folly is now deeply
felt, as the productive industry of the island is so greatly increased,
and steam navigation has created so much intercourse between
Arran and the mainland. The island cannot have that accommo-
dation which its growing importance demands, till this gross blun-
der is repaired by the erection of a proper quay at Brodick or
Lamlash.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated at the south
end of the village of Lamlash. It was built in the year 1773, and
is a plain and unambitious building without vestry, steeple, bel-
fry, quadrangular in form, with an aisle containing a small
gallery opposite the pulpit, projecting from one of its sides. It
contains about 560 sittings, which are all free, and, with the ex-
ception of the seats of the two proprietors, the minister's family
and two or three others, common to all the parishioners. There
is no other place of worship connect with the Establishement
actually within the northern   extremity of the parish, at its point
of junction with the parish of Kilmorie, in which a preacher of the
Gospel officiates as assistant to the two ministers a preacher of the
has the charge of a district in Kilbride parish containing a popul-
ation.
				C


