
                PARISH OF MONIKIE.

    PRESBYTERY OF DUNDEE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

           THE REV. JAMES MILLER, MINISTER.


           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-IT is supposed that the name Monikie is Gaelic, and
composed of Monak, signifying an upland moss or moor, and Ceo,
mist or fog, and so descriptive of the higher district of the parish,
where the church and manse are situated.
   Extent, &c.-The greatest extent of the parish from north-west
to south-east is about 7 miles, and its breadth something more
than 5. It is bounded on the south by the parishes of Barry and Mo-
nifieth ; on the west, by Murroes and Inverarity ; on the north, by
Guthrie and Carmylie; and on the east by Panbride. Two ranges
of hills, crossing the parish from east to west, divide it into three
districts, very different as to soil and climate. The first district,
which lies to the south of the Downie hills, and slopes towards the
estuary of the river Tay, is composed of a rich and productive
soil lying upon gravel, nr scurdy rock; and yields early crops of all
kinds, and especially of wheat and barley. The middle district,
forming a valley between the two ranges of hills, is composed
chiefly of thin black loam, on a bed of cold, wet till, very difficult
to cultivate in season, and producing inferior crops of everything
except oats. Being elevated about 300 feet above the level of
the sea, the climate of this district is cold and damp during a great
part of the year. The Third district, at an elevation of about 400
feet, forms a swampy and moorish tract, extending along the
northern boundary of the parish, thinly inhabited, and cultivated
only in a very few places, and, to very little advantage.
   Geology.-The greater part of the Downie hills is composed of
a beautiful trap or whinstone, admirably adapted for building or
making roads. The range terminates on the west, in a quarry of ex-
cellent sandstone or freestone, which supplies an extensive district to
the south. The northern part of the parish contains a very valuable


