
			AYR.		   		    75

ing a constituency in toto of about sixty members, to whom the
management of the poor is entrusted. These hold their ordinary
meetings once a quarter, to determine on applications from paupers,
and transact any other business that may occur. There is besides
a standing committee for conducting the minor details of business.
A superintendent of poor with a fixed salary acts under the direc-
tors, to investigate and report as to every petition for aliment, which
must have the sanction and signature of the elder of the quarter
to which the petitioner belongs, to scrutinize the claims of every
pauper, to conduct the correspondence respecting doubtful or dis-
puted cases, and to direct the officers employed in the suppression
of begging.
	Poor's Funds.--The funds for the support of the poor are made
up of the collections received at the two churches (after deducting
the necessary expenses of the session,) the annual rent of the farm
of Sessionfield, interest on mortifications, sixty-four bolls of meal,--
the proceeds of a purchase made long ago by the magistrates, and
gifted to the poor's house,--and a general assessment on the inhabi-
tants, proportioned to their means. The meal above-mentioned is
derived from certain lands on the estate of Fullarton, and arose out
of the endowment granted by King Robert Bruce to the support of
the hospital of Kincase or Kingscase, in the vicinity of Ayr, erected
by him for the reception and cure of lepers, a disease which appears
to have been prevalent in his time. After the cessation of the
establishment, the endowment had fallen into the possession of the
Wallaces of Craigie, and was purchased at a judicial sale by Mr
Richard Campbell, writer in Edinburgh. By him it was sold with
all its rights and perquisites to the magistrates of Ayr in 1786, for
L. 300, with the royal charter and disposition in right thereof, and
by them the meal was made over to the poor's house,--they, how-
ever, securing to themselves in virtue of it, the privilege of nomi-
nating a certain number of inmates to be supported in that institu-
tion, or rather the purchase being coupled with this provision
The expenditure for the poor last year amounted to L. 1064, 7s. 8d.
and the income to L. 1100. The number of regular out-pensioners
on the roll amounts to about 300, of whom by far the greater pro-
portion consists of women and children. The allowance granted to
each varies from 6d. to 3s. weekly. The disease of cholera was
very severe while it lasted in this town, not only in regard to the
numbers who fell victims to it, but in its effects afterwards, which
are still felt at this day, because many were made widows and
			       4


