
                ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                   359

"Sgeulachdan" or tales, which were at one period so universally
prized, are now so completely forgotten; for they were not only
couched in apt and beautiful language, showing that the Gaelic,
now become so harsh, and rusty, and unmanageable, was at one
time smooth, eupbonous, and pliable; but the imagery employed
in them displayed often a rich and highly cultivated fancy; while
they almost universally contained a moral, highly important and
well-pointed. In these and in the proverbs of the country, were
the collective wisdom and intelligence of the Highlands to be seen.
But both tales and proverbs are now nearly lost; and while most
interesting fragments might yet be recovered and preserved, the
time for making a complete collection is for ever past.
   It is at the same time sincere cause of joy to every one truly
interested in their welfare, that the people have abandoned their
old customs in solemnizing funerals and marriages. Not many
years ago, the memory of a person even in the humblest ranks
would be thought dishonoured, unless from fifty to sixty individuals
accompanied his remains to the grave. During the "farair" or
wake, and especially on the day of the interment, such a quantity
of meat and drink was distributed as kept the nearest surviving
relatives for several years in the greatest poverty, in order to pay
them, and what was far more to be lamented, so much whisky wis
drunk in the church, or in the churchyard after the interment,
that people often forgot the sacredness of the place, and the so-
lemnity of the occasion, renewed old feuds and dissensions, and
fought fiercely amid the graves of their ancestors. The sod which,
but a short time previous, was bedewed with the tears, and wit-
nessed the lamentations of relatives mourning for him who was
laid underneath, was stained with the blood, and became witness
to the oaths and imprecations of other relatives, perhaps equally
sincere in their attachment to, the deceased, but for a time under
the ungovernable influence of intoxication. Happily, however,
these savage scenes are known now, only as the things of bygone
days. Indeed, what may be termed a violent reaction has taken
place in the feelings and customs of the people in regard to the
funeral obsequies of their friends, which are at the present day
conducted more quietly and privately than perhaps in any other
portion of Scotland. Only a very few friends, generally from ten
to fifteen, assemble to the interment of a common man, and the
expense incurred does not amount to more than a very trifling
sum, from L.1 to L.1, 10s.


