
			DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                  975

in wait, and set upon the bishop, near the Bridge of Earn, as he
was on his way to Court with a retinue of 40 people. If the
bishop and the clergy of his train had not softened them, he had
surely been ctt to pieces by the Servants. However, they parted
without coming to blows; and, to convince the world of Sir
James's bad intentions, the bishop returned to Dunkeld." Sub-
sequently, both parties were reconciled. This bishop had the
fruits of his benefice, on their way to Dunkeld, repeatedly carried
off by bands of robbers, who seem to have defied his vigilance and
despised his authority. It is said that Andrew, Lord Annandale,
the then chancellor, favoured the laity in all suits for recovery of
church lands, where there had been peaceable possession. For
that reason, the bishop, in his last will, left a peculiar charge with
his successors to recover, "under his heavy curse if he did it not,"
the church lands of Fordale, unjustly detained by James Fother-
ingay, who was connected witti the chancellor by personal obliga-
tions.  After the death of Bishop Brown, the Earl of Atholl,
nephew to James II., called the canons of the church of Dunkeld
together, and requested them to make choice of his brother, An-
drew Stewart, as bishop.  The canons, from personal fear, una-
nimously elected him, though he was not in full orders.  Pope
Leo X. rejected the appointment, and nominated the celebrated
Gavin Douglas, uncle to the Earl of Angus, the Queen's husband.
On Bishop Douglas's arrival at Dunkeld, he found Andrew
Stewart, the postulatdd bishop, had armed his servants, and had
possession of the palace and the steeple of the cathedral.  He
retired to the dean's house, to receive the homage of the clergy,
and while engaged in consultation witb them what course to follow,
he was informed that Stewart was in arms to relieve the palace.
It is recorded, that at that instant, a shower of cannon shot came
from the steeple and the palace. The people of rank hurried to
the bishop's defence. Notice was sent of this transaction to the
bishop's friends in Angus and elsewhere, upon which there came
next day such crowds from Montrose, the low parts of Fife, and
the country round about, that the city of Dunkeld could scarce
hold them.  But, for all their numbers, the prebendary of Alyth
had laid up such abundance of everything, that there was room
and  provision for all the men  and their horses." Stewart not
being able to relieve his servants who hold the palace and steeple,
retired to the woods. By threat of excommunications, and partly
by force and stratagem, possession was yielded. Stewart was al-


