
           	     MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                     727

It is situated at the base of a fine hanging wood, having a southern
exposure, in the midst of which stands the mansion-house of
Ochtertyre. The lake is surrounded by the pleasure-grounds
and plantations, and the scenery around it is equal to any in
Scotland. For many years up to 1814, shell-marl was dragged
from the bottom of this lake by means of a floating-machine, in
many places from a depth of 25 feet, which was sold at or about
1s. Id. per boll. In the year 1809, no less a quantity than 10,585
bolls were raised, and sold for L. 573, 7s. 7 1/2d. This manure was
very extensively used in the district, and  with great utility, espe-
cially in the cultivation of waste land. It was also particularly
adapted for producing fine grass, and contributed much to raise
the beautiful pastures with which the parish is clothed.
     The principal river is the Earn, * already mentioned, issuing
from Loch Earn, in the adjacent parish of Comrie, which, with
many windings in its progress, flows in a direction nearly east from
its source for about thirty-six miles, and falls into the Tay at
Rhynd. The Turret, issuing from the loch of that name, pre-
viously noticed, rushes with a more precipitous current, affording,
in its course of nearly six miles southerly, many falls capable of
impellinf the heaviest machinery, and unites with the Earn near
Crieff. A dike having been built within these few years across
the mouth of the lake, an ample supply of water can be com-
manded even in seasons of the greatest drought.
     At the falls of Ochtertyre, on the Turret, about a mile north
from the mansion house of Ochtertyre, and in the bosom of a
deep and thickly planted dell, where this stream, as if struggling
to find a passage, has worn a chasm in the opposing and nearly
meeting rocks, a beautiful cascade is formed, of the height of thirty
feet, over which the water, when swollen with rain, rushes with a
deafening roar. A bridge has been thrown across the stream a
little below, and opposite the fall, a grotto has been cut out of the
rock by the late proprietor, and seated for the accommodation of
those who visit this enchanting spot. Along the north-east boun-
dary of the parish, flows the rapid stream of the Barvic, dividing
Monzie and Monivaird, and falling, after a headlong course of four
miles, into the Turret. Immediately before its junction with
Turret, the Barvic runs through a very rugged and romantic ra-

<FOOTNOTE>Buchanan, in his History of Scotland, lib. ii. c. 36, arguing that the Gaels
came originally from Spain, notices the existence of many similar names of places,
&c. in both countries; and among these, Ierne, the name of a river in Gallieis, and
of a river in Strathern.


