
                         CUMBRAY.                          77

an extensive garden. Among the feuars, on Lord Bute's proper-
ty, this system is carried on in a somewhat different manner. There,
the whole families that keep cows, unite together, have a certain
piece of land, forming a considerable farm, which they cultivate in
common, and afterwards divide the produce. The other mode,
however, is preferable. Besides these small farms, there is, both
on Lord Glasgow's and on Lord Bute's property, a very conside-
rable tract of land, that is not arable, by way of common, for the
use of such families as keep cows, and for which they pay a small
rent, so that, upon the whole, the people in general are comfort-
able in their circumstances, contented, and happy.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The parish is supposed to contain about 5120
square acres, 3000 of which may be considered as arable. Of
the remaining 2000, the commons on the respective properties
contain about 30 acres: 120 have been planted, which, be-
ing excellently well managed, as to pruning, thinning, &c. are
now beginning to be of some little use; 300 or 400 acres more
might easily be rendered arable by a little judicious management,
such as draining, liming, fencing, &c. in all of which departments
there is great room for improvement. This, however, the tenants
cannot be expected to do without obtaining longer leases than those
which they have been accustomed to obtain, and which are in gene-
ral only for nineteen years; and the proprietors have not yet been
disposed to advance the capital necessary, for carrying on such im-
provements. Upwards of 1400 acres, or rather more than one-
fifth of the parish, must be considered as wild, and not at all capa-
ble of any degree of cultivation; a great part of which, however, af-
fords pasture for cattle. The higher parts of the parish are most-
ly covered with heath, whilst some of the banks and valleys are
beautifully ornamented with all the different kinds of a natural brush-
wood.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land may be from 15s.
to L. 1 per acre; but of the remainder, not more than from 2s. to 3s
per acre. The valued rent of the parish is somewhere about
L.1100.
	Some of the farm-houses have been lately rebuilt, and one there-
fore in excellent repair;  the rest, however, are in a very indif-
ferent conditions. There are in the parish 58 houses, 508 black-
cattle, and probably about 60 sheep.
        Although quarrying forms one of the items of trade in the pa-


