
   184                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   winter, when there are accounts of very heavy falls of snow through-
   out the kingdom, snow very seldom falls in great quantity, or con-
   tinues long on the ground; indeed, for the last twelve years, there
   has been very little snow or frost.  The prevailing winds are south
   and south-west, which are almost always accompanied with rain.
      Polar lights have been observed more frequently, and under
   more extraordinary appearances during the last two years, than
   during the memory of the oldest persons.  They sometimes ap-
   peared, of a deep-red colour, extending farther south than they
   were before observed by any person living, which gave occasion to
   the ignorant to say, that they prognasticate war and bloodshed.
   These appearances were always followedby rainy, windy, and coarse
   weather.
      It is matter of wonder to the people here, that the luminous
   meteor, called Will o' the Wisp, was never seen in this parish
   previous to the year 1812.  Since then, it is seen very frequently
   every year.  This circumstance has given rise to some supersti-
   tious ideas among the lower class.  It is said amongst them,
   that a woman in Benbecula went at night to the sand-banks,
   to dig far some rue (Galium verum,) used for dyeing a red co-
   lour, against her husband's will; that when she left her house,
   she said with an oath, she would bring some of it home, although
   she knew there was a regulation by the factor and magistrates
   prohibiting people to use it or dig for it, by reason that the
   sand-banks, upon being excavated, would be blown away with the
   wind.  The woman never returned home, nor was her body found.
   It was shortly thereafter that the meteor was first seen; and it is
   said that it is the ghost of the unfortunate and profane woman that
   appears in this shape.
      It is observed that the climate of this parish, though very rainy,
   is generally milder in winter, than that of the east and midland
   parts of Scotland; although, im summer, it is not generally so
   warm and genial.  Considering the very great number of lakes with
   which the parish abounds, and the inhabited parts being so flat
   and low, it is, on a superficial view, surprising how healthy the
   country is.  But this may be accounted for from the prevalence
   of high winds, and the contiguity of the great Atlantic Ocean,
   which mender the air more pure and salubrious than in inland parts
   of the kingdom.  The most prevalent distempers are, cholic, in-
   flammation, rheumatism, asthma, cough, dyspesis, and nervous
   fevers.  Poor lining and weak food very generally bring on sto-


