
336                         BERWICKSHIRE.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   Since the former Statistical Account was written, the rental of
this parish has been more than doubled, the natural consequence of
the improved management of the lands, and of the high prices ob-
tained for all kinds of agricultural produce during the late war.
Should prices, however, remain long at their present level, the
rental must again decline, as the returns at present received by
the farmer are far from being remunerating. During the last thirty
years, the condition of the labouring part of our population has
also been much improved. They are better fed and better dres-
sed than formerly; and it is believed that, in respect of cleanli-
ness, they may justly claim their full share in the improvement, in
this respect, which is acknowledged to have taken place among
the peasantry of Scotland. To no part of our population do these
remarks apply with more accuracy than to our fishermen and their
families. In every community the idle and the dissipated will be
found; and the uncertainties of a sea-faring life seem unfortu-
nately, in many instances, to give increased force to evil habits;
yet, generally speaking, it may with safety be asserted, that they
are a sober, industrious, and well-behaved set of men. They go
to sea in boats of not less than nine tons register, (worth L. 80, in-
cluding tackling and nets,) which are their own property; and, in
place of creeping along the coast, as their fathers Were accustom-
ed to do, they launch boldly out into the deep, (proceeding some-
times to a distance of twenty miles from shore,) and bring in
large cargoes of fish of the best quality, to supply the markets of
the country. Formerly, very few of them were in the habit of at-
tending public worship; the greater part of them now attend it with
tolerable regularity; and the young amongst them present them-
selves as candidates for admission to the Lord's table in nearly the
same proportion, to their entire number, as is found to exist among
the other classes of the community.
   Our streets are better paved and better kept than formerly;
yet further improvement is still needed, and were the inhabitants
to avail themselves of the provisions of an act of Parliament lately
passed, to enable small towns like Eyemouth to maintain an effective
police, &c. that improvement, it is believed, might be effected.
It has been mentioned, that the roads leading from this place to
all parts of the country are good. A bridge over the Whitadder,
somewhere between Chirnside and Hutton, would tend much to
improve our access to Tweedside, and to insure the prosperity of
the corn market lately established here.
   January 1835.


