
     Statistical Account

carts; about 40 years ago, few carts were used in this coun-
try; coals, victual and other articles, were at that period,
and perhaps later, carried on horseback; corn, hay, manure,
&c. were driven with wains, drawn by 2 horses and 2 oxen.
The parish contains 63 1/2 ploughgates, consisting of between
40 and 50 acres each, so that the whole parish may be com-
puted at upwards of 3000 acres arable, besides 280 acres of
links or sandy plains, the haunts of rabbits, a species of a-
nimals, which, though destructive to corn, bring no small
profit to the proprietors; they are extremely prolific, being
said to have young 5 or 6 times in the year, 3 or 4 of the
first litter, 5, 6, or 7, of the following ones.  Property in
land has changed much in this parish of late years.  The
value of land is rapidly increasing; farms let for 19 or more
years, are generally raised one third, and the rents of
some are doubled within these few years; a farm of good
land uninclosed, sit for the highest culture, is let from 40 s.
to 50 s. a-acre; the best pasture, inclosures, etc. from
L. 2 to L. 3 the acre.  Thirty or 40 years ago, there was
scarce a large farm in this country that had not a slock of
sheep; now there are very few sheep in the country, ex-
cepting those in gentlemens inclosures, for family use; since
summer fallow, for the culture of wheat, and the clover
and turnip system for feeding cattle, were introduced, the
farmers discontinued keeping flocks of sheep*.  The va-
lued rent of the parish is L. 9509 Scots.-The real rent is

<FOOTNOTE>

*Servants wages are gradually increasing in this parish.  The wages
of a common labourer 6 or 7 years ago, were from 7 d. to 10 d. a-day;
now they are from 10 d to 15 d.  The wages of men-servants hired for
the year at the above period, were from L. 4 to L. 5; now they are
from L. 6 to L. 8, and their victuals.  The wages of maid-servants at
the same period, were from L. 1, 10 s. to L. 2 Sterling, for the year;
now they are in general from L. 2, 10 s to L. 3.  The wages of wrights
or carpenters a-day, are 1 s. 6 d. in summer, and 1 s, 3 d. in winter,
Of masons the same.


