
578                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

such as mattresses and other work not fit for machinery, as coarse
bonnets, &c.
	25. All the most useful white and green crops that suit Dum-
fries-shire are now well known. Wheat has been overdone, be-
cause barley was discouraged by unwise and unjust exactions; and
when these are removed, the culture of wheat thus relieved will
become remunerative, if the rashness of legislation allow it to be
so. The most suitable varieties of wheat, barley, and oats are
now known, and to discourage the culture of them would be a na-
tional misfortune, as they cannot be too much encouraged for all
sorts of useful manufacture, and for the purposes of feeding live-
stock; and in the surplus thus applied in good years, we have a
resource against bad seasons far better than in any imported grain,
while the benefit of a rise in price goes to the home grower.
         26. The separation of weeds from seed-corn, and the de-
struction of weeds in the land, are now better understood; and we
seldom see a field destroyed by corn marigold or by spurry, as
was too common in former times. The system of rotations of
crops is more perfect, as two vhite crops are seldom allowed in
immediate succession, and the fallows are better worked. But still
the ox-eye (viz. Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum,) though a con-
gener of the gule, is not to be destroyed in the same way; being a
strong perennial, which requires to be pulled by band, when its flowers
first appear-an operation that a few children can soon perform-
and the couch grass, Triticum repens, is best extirpated when, after
a fallow, there is a continued pasturage of three years. No decent
farmer now allows ragweed and thistles to form and scatter their
seeds by the wind, but they cut them down when in early flower.
The seeds of many weeds are separated from grain by floating
them off in water before sowing; and many farmers prefer to pas-
ture the first crop of grass instead of cutting it for hay. Even the
smoothing of the land by stoning and rolling allows the scythe to
follow in cutting the corn, which enlarges the bulk of straw by at
least a fourth part, and this tells materially in the litter, and the
manure and crops of another year; all which leads to a better and
more perfect system of agriculture.
	27. But though agriculture is the great field of employment
and subsistence by means of our home resources, and provides
most of the materials of subsistence for the population at large,
rash and selfish plans are constantly agitated, which would lead to
discourage agriculture, and to destroy the immense capital em-


