
4                     RENFREWSHIRE.

may not have contributed to effect a similar change on land?  In
connection with climate and other circumstances, this parish has
long been accounted remarkably healthy.  The writer of the for-
mer Statistical Account says, " No place, perhaps, in the west of
Scotland is so peculiarly healthy as Renfrew.  Epidemical distem-
pers are hardly ever known."  In illustration of this latter circum-
stance, it may be mentioned as a current tradition, that the plague
which raged so much in the neighbourhood, especially about the
beginning of the seventeenth century, never entered Renfrew.*
And it can scarcely be said that the Asiatic cholera of 1832 en-
tered it; for, although there wdre two de`ths believed to be by cho-
lera, the individuals affected were understood to have caught the
disease in Glasgow.  We mention these facts as matters of ob-
servation, but without believing them to be explicable on any other
principle than that of Divine Providence.  It is not to be conceal-
ed, however, that typhus fever and British cholera, as well as the
usual epidemics affecting children, occasionally visit this as much as
other places.  In 1787 or 1788, or about that time, small-pox
seems to have been very fatal in the burgh and neighbourhood.
Since that time, it yielded to the general use of vaccination, and
seldom occurred till last autumn, when a species of the disease again
appeared, spread generally among children, and attacked some
grown people; several of whom died, though they had been pre-
viously vaccinated.  The general impression, however, of aged
people, who had seen small-pox in its more virulent forms, is, that
our late visitation has been comparatively mild.
  Hydrography, &c.-The subsoil being for the most part alluvial,
our springs vary in their quality, and also in the depth to which wells
must be sunk for them.  About the burgh, they flow from the south
chiefly through a bed of fine sand, and are remarkable for purity and
perennity; some of them, however, being slightly tinged with the
oxide of iron.  From the great changes which have tajen place in
our rivers, especially in the Clyde, and on account of its great com-
mercial importance, it may be desirable to go more into detail under

<FOOTNOTE>At this time, Renfrew was a place of much greater relative importance than it
now is; and the inhabitants of Paisley were then, it would appear, accustomed to
make purchases in it.  During the time of the plague they were refused, as tradition
says, admission into the burgh ; and to accommodate both parties, a kind of Exchange
was established at the head of the " Hairst Loan," the way leading to Paisley.  A
large fire was kept burning, with a pot suspended over it, containing water and a
ladle in it.  The Renfrew merchant having grasped the ladle, stretched it towards
his Paisley customer, who deposited in it the price of his purchases; it was then im-
mersed in the boiling pot, and brought out purified from all infection, and declared
current.


