
     of Tranent.

end than the other two.  The communication within is by
arches of different forms and sizes.  A square tower rises
from the centre of the whole, supported by the side walls of
the middle building, and by two cross arches.  The roof is
vaulted, and covered with stone.  The windows are few, and
ill constructed; and, in a dark and gloomy day, serve only to
make "darkness visible."  Either the church has originally
been sunk below the surface of the ground, or the surround-
ing burying-ground has been much heightened by the im-
mense number of bodies interred in it; for the access to the
pulpit is by a descent of 4 steps from the church-yard.
   The manse is large, and well executed, and was built in
1781.  The stipend consists of 27 bolls of wheat, 26 bolls of
barley, 43 bolls of oats, 5000 L. Scotch, including 60 L. for
communion elements, besides a glebe of nearly 6 acres, and
somewhat more than an acre of muir, the minister's propor-
tion of the division of a commonty.  The King is patron, in
consequence of the attainder of the Earl of Wintoun.  The
present incumbents are, the Reverend Mr Charles Cuning-
ham, settled in 1740, and the Reverend Hugh Cunynghame,
ordained assistant and successor in 1784.  Besides the two
established clergymen, there is a minister of the Burgher
persuasion*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Schools.-The salary of the parish schoolmaster is only 7 L.
and some odd shillings; but what with the dues arising from
the session and heritors clerkships, from the offices of precentor,
collector of road-money and poor's rates, and the profits of the
school the amount is considerable.  The present master is bur-
dened with an annuity of 20 L. to his predecessor, who resigned.
The heritors, sensible of the inconvenience and hardship of the
bargain to a young man of merit, with a rising family, gene-
rously and voluntarily added 5 L. per annum to the salary, built
a new school, and fitted up the master's house in a manner com-
modious for the reception of boarders.  The numbers educated

     VOL. X. M


