
                        STONEHOUSE.                       475

London, about a mile from the village, the communication with
these places is easy and expeditious.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church stands in the centre of
the village, and is a fine, light, handsome, modern building, with
a neat spire, and capable of accommodating with ease above 900 sit-
ters. It is generally well filled. Besides the parish church, there is
also in the village a small dissenting meeting-house belonging to
the United Secession, a good many of the members and supporters
of which are from the neighbouring parishes of Glasford, Dalserf,
and Lesmahagow.
	The manse is partly an old building and partly new. The new
was built about twenty years ago; it is very pleasantly situated on a
very commanding eminence near the Avon, about half a mile from
the village. The glebe consists of about four acres of exceeding-
ly good arable land, and about one acre of pasture, which may be
fairly valued at L. 24 a year. The stipend, as modified 9th De-
cember 1629, is 17 chalders of victual, one-half meal, one-half
barley, with L. 10 for communion elements; localled stipend, 125
bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, 2 1/5 lippies oatmeal; 28 bolls, 3 firlots, 1
peck, 7/8 lippies, barley, with L. 121, 15s. 9 1/2d in money.
	360 families attend the Established Church. About 120 fami-
lies are Dissenters or Seceders.
	Education.--There are five schools in the parish, three of them
in the village of Stonehouse, and two in the village of Sandford; at-
tended by about 300 scholars, or about 1/8 of the whole population of
the parish. Four of these schools have no salary attached to them;
two of them are what are called subscription schools, and the mas-
ters have only a free school-room; rent is paid for the school-rooms
of the other two. The parochial scholmaster's salary is about L. 28
per annurn. His fees may amount to L. 30 per annum, and be has
about L. 13 a-year besides, from other sources.
	Fairs.--There are 3 fairs held in the village in the year,
which are styled the Martinmas, May, and July fairs, the dues of
which belong to Mr Lockhart of Castlehill. These fairs are prin-
cipally for black cattle and wool, and are generally well attended.
	Poor.--The poor on the list are generally between 20 and
30, and are maintained partly by the collections made at the
church door, and partly by a regular assessment laid upon the parish;
the one-half paid by the heritors according to their several valua-
tions, and-the other half by the tenants according to their respective
rents, and householders according to their means and circumstances.


