
112                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

220 to 234.  Average amount of collections, L. 17, Os. 10 1/2d.:
occasional donations L. 9, 18s. 4d.; proclamations, II s. 0 1/2d.; and
mortcloth money 16s.; total, L. 28, 7s.  There are only two in-
stances on record of important benefactions, and both by the
same individual, Robert Scott, Esq. late of Penang.  1st, A
donation of L. 100 Sterling, the interest of which is to be applied
for the relief of indigent persons belonging to the parish : the
trustees are his brother, the present laird of Raeburn, and the
minister of the parish. 2d, Mr Scott last year invested the pro-
perty of a field in the vicinity of the village, amounting to about
5 acres, in the heritors of the parish possessed of L. 100 Scots
valuation, and the minister,-tbe proceeds to be applied to the re-
lief of indigent persons not on the poor's roll.
    The manse and offices were built in 1791 ; but as the work had
been executed in a very superficial manner, and on a defective
Plan, the heritors laid out a very considerable sum on repairs and
additions in 1811. The whole is now in good condition.  The ex-
tent of the glebe is 7 acres imperial; and the quality of the soil ex-
cellent; value L. 2, 1Os. per acre. The stipend amounts to 15 chal-
ders meal and barley, in equal portions, with L. 8 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements.
    Education.-There is but one school, in which the following
branches are taught: English 2s. per quarter; writing 3s.; arith-
metic, 4s.; book-keeping and practical mathematics, 5s.: Latin,
Greek, and French, 6s. per quarter.  The schoolmaster has the
legal accommodation, and the minimum salary; the school fees ave-
rage about L. 40 a-year.
    Library.-A subscription library, instituted in 1799, under the
patronage of Sir David Erskine, of Dryburgh Abbey, and now
amounting to 1000 volumes, forms the only literary establishment
in the parish.
    Poor, &c.-Average number receiving aid 14, including children.
Sum allowed to each per week, from 3s. 9d. to Is. 6d.  Average
annual assessment for the poor, L. 62, 19s. 4d.  Collections, &c.
with occasional donations, L. 28, 7s. That spirit of honest pride
and independence which formerly characterized our Scottish pea-
santry is rapidly diminishing, and the discredit once attached to
pauperism has, in these times, been wiped away, as one of those
antiquated prejudices that never had any rational foundation.
There are, however, still some lingering remains of a better spirit.
    Fair.-St Boswell's fair is the only one held in this parish :
				4


