
     Statistical Account

well as to their own.  The greatest length of Dalry from
N. to S. is about 15, and its greatest breadth from E. to
W. about 10 miles

   Soil, Agriculture, etc.-The rental of the parish about
nine years ago was upwards of L. 2200 Sterling a-year;
and by this time some farms have been let at more than
twice the rent of that period.  The soil of several farms 
towards the south end is abundantly capable of cultivation.
Not only the Holm of Dalry and of Grennan, but even the
hard land of Bogie, and many other farms, when manured
and well cultivated, yield excellent crops of oats, rye, and
barley.  Such farms as are unfit for cultivation, which
class includes about nine-tenths of the parish, are in general
excellent pasture.  The greater part of the hills above the
Black Water are green; the rest are mostly beathy.  The
Earl of Galloway, who is the principal heritor of this parish,
in order to raise the rent of his lands around the village
called St John's Clauchan, has, during that period, offered
feus of ground for houses, and gardens, on reasonable terms,
to such persons as would build there; and the plan has
succeeded so well, that the village is already four times as
large as it formerly was*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The already pay his Lordship for the lands which they not
only a greater rent than the torner tenants paid but even than others in
the neighbourhood pay for lands of the same quality.  And as the demand
for lard generally increase with the number of it is probable that
on a new the will give a little moment for their pos-
session. We may add, that the manure and cul-
ture upon these lands by so many persons, every one of whom
could cultivate and manure more than he possess, evidently tends to en-
rich and the soil.  There sufficiently show how much it is
the interest of the protitors of improveable lands, to encourage, feuing,
and the division or largeanable farms into small but besides promoting
their own advantage, they may by this method do an important service to
their country.  By this method, not only a generous man, but even a mi-

</UNREADABLE>


