
420                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Friendly Society.-There was a masonic society instituted here
in 1814, and denominated St Andrew's Lodge of Glenkindie
Free Mason Friendly Society, which usually distributes among
its members to the amount of L.50 per annum.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
receiving regular aid is 15; the average sum allotted to each is
about L. 2, 16s. per annum; the annual amount of contributions
for their relief is about L.43 Sterling, of which L.30 arises from
church collections, and about L.13 from interest of funds, &c.
   Ale-houses.-There are two licensed ale and spirit-dealers.
   Fairs.-There are two cattle trysts held annually at the Glen-
kindie Mason's Arms Inn; the one lately altered to the first
Monday after Trinity Muir in April, and the other on the first
Saturday after Keith in September.  There are also two feeing
markets held at the same place, on the day after the Whitsunday
and Martinmas terms, unless the same shall happen on Sunday,
when they are held on the Monday following.  These are well
attended; but it is generally acknowledged that the feeing mar-
kets have a demoralizing effect upon the labouring classes.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In comparing the former Statistical Account of 1791 with the
present it appears that gravel was then a very prevalent disease,
in consequence of some families, in which it was thought to have be-
come hereditary, intermarrying.  Very few cases of that malady have
occurred for many years past.  By the former Account, the number
of ploughs was 43, each drawn by eight or ten small oxen; now the
number of ploughs is about 78, each drawn by a pair of horses, many
of which are strong and active.  Roads have been much improved
of late, but are still susceptible of great improvement, especially the
bye-roads to many of the farms.  There are three wooden bridges
across the Don for foot-passengers, which are often rendered use-
less by the flooded state of the river,-much inconvenience being
thereby occasioned to all classes, and danger to the children attend-
ing schools.
   The greatest obstacle to improvement is, that, mostly all the
estates being held under entail, the common allowance for build-
ing is one year's rent, which may be reckoned two-thirds too little
for the ordinary conventences, of a farm-steading; and seldom is
any allowance granted for enclosures, drains, or the reclaiming of
waste land.
   October l840.


