
	158			SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

	for their labour in the rapidly rising village of Helmsdale.  Gol-
	spie is a community of tradesmen, labourers, and fishers, kept in
	constant employment by the establishments of Dunrobin, and of
	the neighbouring extensive arable farms.

                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
           Agriculture.-This parish contains 65,000 square acres, of
	which a very small portion indeed is under cultivation; the rest
	being generally high and irreclaimable hill-pasture.  It is not easy
	to state with accuracy the extent of land in tillage, but it cannot
	be under 1400 acres imperial measure, tbree-fourths of which has
	been trenched from the barren waste by the settlers from the hills,
	and what was formerly under the plough greatly improved.  There
	being 385 families, and as these occupy from one to four acres,
	we may safely fix the extent possessed by the cottars on an ave-
	rage at nearly two acres each, making in round numbers 730, ex-
	clusive of the following principal farms:--Clynelish, 235; Inver-
        Brora, 210; East, Brora, 75; Kilcalmkill, 60; Clynekirkton and
        Glebe, 40; Clynemilton, 33; Achrimsdale Park, 17--total 1400.
	The six farms here enumerated have comfortable dwelling-houses
	and complete offices, sufficient for every purpose.  They are en-
	closed and subdivided with neat and substantial stone fences, tho-
	roughly drained, and cultivated, strictly according to the most ap-
	proved system of modern husbandry, producing luxuriant crops of
	barley, oats, and turnips.  No wheat is raised, the soil not being
	considered suited for it.  The average rent of the old arable land
	is about L. 1, 5s. per acre, and the tenant becomes bound to im-
	prove all corners of fields, and such portions of the adjoining moor-
	ground as is conditioned for on the commencement or renewal of
	his lease.  The duration of the leases is for nineteen years.  The
	wages to male-servants from L. 8 to L. 10 ; females from L. 3 to
	L. 5 annually ; labourers 1s. 6d. per day; and there is seldom
	any difference made in the winter season, from their being then
	more exposed to inclement weather.
	The parish is entirely laid out in sheep-walks, excepting the
	above arable farms, and the ground occupied by the small tenants.
	The stock is pure Cheviot, and the utmost attention being paid
	to the improvement of the sheep by the present judicious and ex-
	perienced tenants, they deservedly command the highest prices at
	market, and carry the first prizes in competition with the stock of
	other countries.  The total number of sheep is from 10,000 to
        11,000; the rent averaging 2s. 6d.  There is of other stock,


