
                         ASHKIRK                          275

I smith, and a respected farrier.  The number of agricultural
labourers has not been accurately ascertained.

                        IV.--INDUSTRY
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.--Land cultivated, 2804 acres.
The number of acres of pasture land has not been ascertained.
Land capable of cultivation with a profitable application of capital,
inconsiderable.  Land planted about 386 acres.
  Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land in the parish
is from 14s. to 15s. per acre; for grazing, per cow, L. 4, for win-
tering L. 1, 10s.; of pasturing from 5s. to 6s. per sheep.  The rental
of the parish is about L. 4479, 7s.
  Wages.--Farm-servants with families, have in lieu of board, 3
loads of meal, the produce of a cow, and a certain quantity of po-
totaoes planted.  The average wages of such servants is from L. 9
to L. 10.  Shepherds have for wages the keeping of forty-five sheep.
The yearly wages of female servants vary from L. 5 to L. 7, exclu-
sive of board.  The artisans of the parish, such as masons, carpen-
ters, and smiths, make, per day, from 2s. to 2s. 4d.; common labour-
ers, such as roadmen, from 1s. 8d. to 2s.
  Prices.--The average price of wool and sheep from 1826 to
1831 inclusive, has been accurately ascertained, which is as fol-
lows: Cheviot wool laid with tar and butter, per stone of 24 lbs.
English, 10s. 7d.; ditto laid with turpentine, 14s. 2d.; ditto pure white
17s. 1d.; stock wethers hogs unclipt, 12s. 9d.; ditto ewe hogs unclipt,
14s. 2d,; ewe hogs sold at market, 11s. 3d.; top wether lambs, 6s.
6d.; second ewe and wether lambs, 5s. 3d.; draft ewes, 12s. 8d.;
wethers unclipt, 19s. 9d.; wethers for turnip feeding, L. 1, 0s. 6d.
  Breeds of Live-Stock.--The Cheviot is now the only breed of
sheep in the parish; the black-faced have entirely disappeared.
On a few farms the Cheviot ewes are crossed with the Leicester
breed, and produce what are termed half-bred lambs, which yield
a much higher price than Cheviot lambs; but this advantage is
gained with many drawbacks of another description, which render
the ultimate results doubtful, except on a few farms peculiarly si-
tuated.  The present breed of cattle in the parish is what is term-
ed the short-horned, being found upon the whole to be the most
profitable.  A few Highland cattle are wintered in the parish, on
farms that have sufficient command of bog hay.  The dairy is in
a great measure supplanted by the rearing of young cattle, but
what butter is made in the parish is of the very best quality,--our
housewives being great adepts in this department.


