
           168                           ORKNEY.

           per annum.  It may be observed, that, although there are many
           poor persons in these parishes, yet they are more able to find sup-
           port for themselves here than in large towns.  If they procure
           from their relatives or neighbours some meal and a few fish and
           potatoes, these are sufficient to satisfy their wants.   And though
           very poor, they enjoy a measure of health and contentment.  It
           may be remarked, that the people in these parishes are very chari-
           table in bestowing help, in the manner referred to, on their poorer
           neighbours.
             Inns, Alehouses, &c-There are seven alehouses or inns in
           these parishes, and the bad effects of these houses are the same
           here as in other parts of the country.
             Fuel.-The fuel in the parish of Eday consists wholly of peats,
           which are dug from the extensive moss that covers the greater
           part of the island.  These peats are of the best sort, and wben
           piled on the hearth make an excellent fire.  The inhabitants of
           Eday, as has been noticed, have right to the free use of peats from
           the mosses, as a pendicle to their tenements.  Several of the north
           isles of Orkney receive fuel from Eday.  Boats containing parties
           of people to prepare their winter's supply, may be seen sailing from
           various quarters, in the beginning of summer, when the season for
           cutting the peats commences.  They pay 6s, per fathom for them
           after they are cut and dried.*   And the yearly, rent accruing to
           the proprietor of Eday, for this commodity alone, is not less than
           L. 139, 16s. per annum.  The inhabitants of Stronsay were wont,
           in former times, to dig their peats from the moss of Rothesbolmn,
           already referred to.  This privilege, however, about fifty years ago,
           was denied them by the proprietor, and the question being brought
           before the Court of Session, it was decided in his favour.  Mr
           Anderson, in his Account of these parishes in 1787, anticipated
           that this decision would " soon be found a great cause of diminish-
           ing the inhabitants."  The numbers, however, bave considerably
           increased since that time, showing that a scarcity of fuel is too
           feeble a barrier to check population.  The tenants in Rothesholmn,
           and some other families, receive their peats, as formerly, from the
           moss.  But most of the remaining families receive the little fuel
           they use from Eday, and the average expense to one family is
           about L. 1, 5s. yearly, to which may be added the expense of
           coal, as some of them use a considerable quantity.

<FOOTNOTE> The measure above-mentioned is of much greater dimensions, than that usually
           known by the fathom.  It contains 12 feet in length, 6 in breadth, and 6 in height.
             July 1841.


