
     Statistical Account

Disadvantages.-But there are other obstructions to im-
provement, which still prevail too much, and which it would
be the interest of landlords and farmers to have removed:
These arise from too short leases; having a great number of
small tenants, and their houses collected together in the
centre of the farm; payment of many small items, and pres-
tation of services to the proprietor, to mills, smithies, etc.
which, as being prejudicial, are in most places laid aside.

   Antiquities.-The abbey of Saddel, a monastery of the Cis-
tertian order, was begun by Somerled, Lord of Kintyre, and
the iles (who died in 1163), and finished by his son Regi-
nald.  It was built in the form of a cross.  The length from E.
to W., is about 136 feet, by 24 over walls, and the transept
from N. to S., about 78 feet, by 24.  The S. end of the tran-
sept was extended 58 feet more, and unade the side of a square,
which served for cloisters.  There is very little of the church
of cloisters now standing.-Near the point of Skipness, stands
the castle of that name.  Its appearance is very noble.  It
can scarcely, even at this day, be called a ruin, though it
must be a structure of great antiquity, being probably built
by the Danes.  It is somewhat singular, and much to be re-

<FOOTNOTE>

tention to his farm.  The time he formerly spent about his peats, he may now
lay out carrying home coal and limestone.  The great number of boats in
the parish, with its vicinity to Clyde and Ayrshire, are circumstances, in favour
of the farmer, both for exporting what he can spare of his produce, and getting
home coal and limestone in return, and this will open a new source of employ-
ment for many hands, who, in the late state of non-improvement, were often
idle, except in the herring-fishing season.  What pity was it then to deprive the
poor industrious people, for so long a period, of such a resource for bettering
their condition in so many respects, for the sake of duty trifting to Govern-
ment, but highly impolitic, when considered in all its train of calamitous con-
sequences, to the families of many useful and deserving subjects;


