
                                 KINGUSSIE.                               73

both as united: Number of families, 481; average number of
children in each family, 'probably about 4. Number of inhabited
houses, 440; number uninhabited, 15; building, 10.  There are
I fatuous and I blind person in the parish.  The number of fami-
lies chiefly employed in agriculture is 152 ; in trade, manufactures,
or handicraft, 100.
   The language of the common people is Gaelic, but most of the
young, and many of the old inhabitants understand English: among
thebetterelasses,thelatterispreferred.  TheGaelichaslostgrouAd
very much within the last fort years; and it is highly probable the
time is not very far distant when it will cease to be a living language
in this part of the country.  The dress of the people is assuming
much of the lowland cast; and the once characteristic garb is now
seldom used, but on extraordinary occasions, or by young children.
The common food of the peasantry consists of potatoes, and oat-
meal in its various preparations, with now and then a little butcher-
meat, cheese, and milk.
   Character, &c. of the People.-It is true that the young of the
poorer sort are now more inured to labour, and more willing to en-
gage in it, than they once were,-and that the marclf of improve-
ment in agriculture and knowledge has been accompanied with
many advantages,-as in the erection of villages wbicli have in-
creased the facility of disposing of their little country produce, and
brought in return the necessaries, and some of the comforts, of life
to their doors.  Still from the shortness of most of their leases,-
the non-residence of some of the proprietors, which drains the
country of money,-the still uncertain state of their crops., and the
length of land carriage, which is at least forty-six miles, the com-
mon people continue in a very poor and uncomfortable state.
They have many good qualities of character.  The bravery of many
of them has been well proved, and they maintain a high reputation
for hospitality and politeness.  But these virtues are too often
found in union with vices, by which their value is much impaired.
and quarrelling, intemperances, and an artfulness of address, are
still features in their character.  We have, however, pleasure in
adding, that these defects, especially the two first, are now less fre-
quent, than when the last Account was written.  The facilities now
afforded for acquiring a good education, and consequently of read-
ing and hearing the Scriptures read, are obviously producing, by
the blessing of God, a salutary impression; religious principle is ac-
quiring a greater sway over the conduct, and, while there is but too


