
294                            BANFFSHIRE.

that of the schoolmaster of Macduff is by the Earl of Fife's Trus-
tees.
   One private school is now taught at Troup ; another at Gardens-
town. A handsome new school is erecting at the Longman village
by the Earl of Fife, and subscribers in the neighbourhood. There
are three private or subscription male schools in the parish, besides
several other chance schools, both male and female, in Macduff.
The number of children at the parochial school of Macduff, at
one time, may average about 110 ; those at Gamrie about 50.
The whole children at school in Maeduff, 300; in the other
parts of the parish, above 200. There is a female schoolin Mac-
duff, with a house and moderate endowment, for the useful and
common branches of female education, such as reading, sewing,
knitting, &c. ; and one at Gardenstown, not endowed. It would
be a great benefit to this part of the country, if the parochial sys-
tem were extended, and made to embrace female as well as male
education.
   Sabbath-school teaching has been in full operation in this pa-
rish for some considerable time past. There are about 200 at-
tending the Sabbath school of Macduff, under the superintendence
of the minister and schoolmaster, with six or eight subordinate
teachers, male and female ; and nearly an equal number attend
the different Sabbatb-schools in the Gamrie district, under the
superintendance Qf the parish minister; but these are in general
more thinly attended in summer than in winter.
   Libraries.- There is a good circulating library in Macduff, es
tablisbed and supported chiefly by subscription, and the aid of libe-
ral donations from the Earl of fife. There is no public library
in the Gamrie district, although attempts have been made to have
one established. The parochial schoolmaster procured the Kil-
dare Street Library for the use of his scholars, which he finds a
great benefit in giving them a taste for useful reading. The mi-
nister has also procured one of the Tract Society's Libraries for
the Sabbath scholars, which is also very well employed and useful.
   Savings Bank.-A parish savingg'bank, on the national system,
was established at Gamrie in 1836, is succeeding remarkably well,
and gives promise of becoming of vast benefit to the labouring
community. The amount of deposits in August 1840 was above
L,1300.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The poor's funds of this parish are
nearly exhausted. L.200 was left by the minister's uncle, Hugh


