
			   BLAIRGOWRIE.                         909

  			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.                                           -
  Till of late years, the parish, from its remote situation, and the
rural character and occupations of its inhabitants, was little no-
ticed, and comparatively insignificant. Owing to these circum-
stances, also, it had little or no share in the great religious and
political contests which so frequently, in former times, agitated the
great body of the population, and deluged the country with blood;
or, at least, its share in these (if it had any) was too insignificant to
obtain a place in history. The village is, however, casually men-
tioned, in the History Of Montrose's Wars, as one of the places
through which that great warrior passed in one of his hostile de-
scents from the Highlands into the valley of Strathmore. *
  Eminent Men.-The eminent men connected with this parish
are, 1. George Drummond, who was repeatedly elected Lord Pro-
vost of Edinburgh, and was the principal projector of the North
Bridge of that city, and other important and useful public under-
takings connected with it. He was born in the Newton Castle,
which is situated within a quarter of a mile of the village. 2. Tho-
mas Graham of Balgowan, afterwards Sir Thomas Graham, now
Lord Lyndoch, who was formerly proprietor of the estate of Blair-
gowrie, including the Mause district.
  Land-owners.-The chief land-owners of the parish are,Wil-
liam Macpherson, Esq. of Blairgowrie; Robert Clerk Rattray,

<FOOTNOTE>About the time of the outbreaking of the French Revolution, the village of Blair-
gowrie, obscure and insignificant as it then was, shared in the general excitement
which pervaded the nation, and numbered amongst its inhabitants a very few of
the soidisant "friends of the people." At the time that the Militia Act first came
into operation, also, the class of persons who were liable to serve under its enactments,
and the lower ranks in general throughout the country were greatly discontented
with the measure; and on the day wben the Justices of the peace for the district met
in Blairgowrie for the purpose of balloting for those who should serve, this discontent
broke out into open violence. Great crowds of people from this and all the other
parishes of the district collected in the village-made prisoners of Colonel Macpher-
son of Blairgowrie, Sir William Ramsay of Banff, and the other gentlemen assembl-
ed-and confined them in the inn until they got hold of the only "writer" then in
the village, whom they compelled (malgr‚ lui) to draw out what they called a bond,
to be executed by the Justices, by which they should be bound to abstain in future
from any measures for enforcing the obnoxious act. This precious document was
accordingly prepared, written out on a stamp,-(a ludicrous attempt to legalize
an illegal document by a rigid observance of the statutory solemnities)-and sub-
scribed by the captives under the threats of the mob. Satisfied with the victory they
conceived they had gained, and in the full belief that they had effectually extinguish-
ed the Militia Act, these deluded men then allowed their prisoners to depart, and
themselves peaceably dispersed to their respective parishes. But a week had not pas-
sed over their heads to their strong body of the Sutherland Fencibles made their ap-
pearanced in the district,-pounded upon the most active of the rioters, and set most
of the others scampering to the hills to avoid a similar fate. This vigorous proceed-
ing effectually quelled the disturbance, and the provisions of the act were thencefor-
ward carried into the effect without further trouble. Several of the most active of the
mod were sentenced to various periods of imprisonment, of from one to four month.
  Anglic‚, Attorney.


