
                               SOUTH UIST.                         191

       and by some improvements in their mode of agriculture.  The
       work formerly done by five men and five horses at the plough,
       is now performed by one man and two horses.  It is not more
       than twenty years since the old plough with one stilt, named crom-
       nan-gad, was entirely discontinued; and it was only a few years
       ago that the small plough called ristle, which was used for cut-
       ting the ground, to enable the other plough to turn the sod with
       more ease, was disused.  Indeed, it is still used by a few of the
       tenants in strong sandy ground.  Formerly, the tenants had all
       their.potatoes in lazy beds, or narrow rigs, three or four feet
       broad, in ley strong ground.  This practice is still followed. it
       was only a few years ago, that they began to plough the ground
       for their potatoes, and to set them in drills.  The quality of the
       potatoes is consequently improved, and the quantity considerably
       increased.
        There are no trees. in this parish'; but it appears that there was
       much wood in this country, in ancient times ; for in digging peats
       branches of trees with hazel-nuts are found in several places; and
       in some places at low water, in great spring-tides, trunks of trees
       are seen in moss in the sea on the west side, among rocks and
       sand.  This evidently shows that the sea has been, from time im-
       memorial, 'encroaching on the land.  It needs be no matter of
       surprise that such changes should'bave taken place on the low
       flat western shore of this parish, the sand being from the edge of
       the sea drifted on the land, and then over, moss, forming high
       banks, which in the course of time 'were covered with a sward of
       grass, and which subsequently, from the want of care on the part
       of the inhabitants, were broken up for folds for their cattle, and
       cots for their sheep, and then drifted in different directions.  How-
       ever, though late, this sand-drift was in a great measure remedied
       in several places, within the last twenty years, as far as was practi-
       cable.  In five or six farms, the sand-banks which were repairable,
       were, at great expense, covered with green sod, taken from the
       neighbouring ground, and in the course of a 'year, defied the
       strongest gales, and which, but for this prevention, would soon
       have been entirely blown away, and have left a barren desert;
       whereas, they are now covered with fine grass bent (Arundo
       arenaria.) and afford both shelter and food to cattle.  Another
       method has also been, tried, on. a small scale, - to  prevent sand-
       drift.  Bent, or sand-grass, has been planted in two farms in the
       Dutch style, and found to answer the purpose  exceedingly well.


