
176                           FIFESHIRE.

              		III.-POPULATION.
     In 1821, the amount of population was 729. By the census of
1831, very accurately taken, it was 921,-males, 459; females,
462. Of this amount there were 23 above 70 years of age. About
400 of the population live in the villages of Kelty and Oakfield.

of Mr Alexander Collville of Blair, having no relatione to doe for this poore people,
but being only their neere neighboure, and beholding from his own windowe thair
pyping and dancing, revelling and deboshing, their drinking and excesse, thair ryote
everie Sabbath day, was moved by the Lord, and mightilic stirred up to undertake
spmething for that poore people, and having assembled some of the speciall men of the
parroch, at the village of Sheills, sounded thair mindes, if they might be bold to ad-
venture to assist and help him with horses for drawing of timber and,stones, (he and
they both fearing the oppositions and discountenance of the lord and patrone of the
paroch,) the parrochiners present did give this comfortable answer, that they woud
both doe and adventure to kntribute thair best endeavores with men and horses, for
building of their kirk, but becaus of their povertie, they were not able to kntribute
anie of their owne private monnie, but amongst others that were present, none was
found more foreward with his horse and assistance than Mr Johne Hodge, tennent
in Leuchat's Baith, of whome I made electione to oversee the worke and the work-
men, and did presentlie advance him some monnie for that effect.
   " It pleised the Lord, so he blessed our endeavores that the worke prospered in our
hand, and was brought to great perfectione in a short tyme, even to the admiratione of
the people and passengers, who marvelled to see the worke goe on so sudanlie, neither
knowing the way nor the instruments. And becaus it wes impossible, when the walls
were up to get the kirk slaitted in such haist, the slaittes being at Tippermoore, which
was at sixteene miles distance; thairfor it wes thought expedient for the present yeere,
that it should be sarked with dealles, which being done with very great diligence, I
thought good to send for ane old reverend brother, Mr John Row La minister at
Carnocke, who after some refuisalls, without the consent of the minister of Aberdour,
(becaus into his kirk, the parroches of Dalgetie and Baith were annexed,) he coud
not undertake to preach, yet after muche intreattie he was moved to come to such ane
effamished congregations, in such a retyred place. The people understanding that
sermone was to be at the kirk of Baith so unexpectedlie, and so suddenlie builded;
did resort from all places, and much out of everie sitie, being new fangled with such
a suddan change, thronged in so to kirk, that thair wes scarce anie place left to raise
up some height for a place to the pastoure. And while the pastoure was in a most
moveing and elegant straine for the kindness and mercie of God to that people that
hadd lived so long in darkness, it pleised the Lord out of his free and immense love
to bring such a suddain rushe of joy upone my hart, that I had almost fainted, but
in end remembering myseiffe, I was comforted to think that the Lord had shewed a
pledge of his goodnesse towards me, and accepted of my weake and unworthie obedi-
ence, to make me instrumentall for the worke of his majestie. I shall not insist to
speike anie thing at all of my actings and doings, or sufferings, to be instrumentall in
the worke of the Lord, but one thing I must declaire, that Satbane hath beene, is, and
will be bussie against all those that will be instrumental for the service of God, so be-
came he my enemy in stirring up some to scourge me with the tongue,'and put grie-
vous aspersions upone my name and reputations; in stirring up some to slander mee,
as iff. I had interverted something that was given by some few friendes for that proud
use. But I declaire in the presence of God, to all after ages, that such reports are
but false calumnies and lyes ; thair wes never suche a thing as one penny interverted
or withheld by me from the work of the Lord. And becaus my conscience beares
mee witnesse of the honestie of my carriage therein, it is also borne in upon mee to
pronunce from God, that he who devysed to scourge me with the tongue shall be
punished without repentance. And more, to shew my integrity, where ane promise
that ever I had in the worke of the Lord, was from a most religious Christiane, Wil-
liam Breggs of Athernie, and becaus I did alwayes rest confident of the certaintie of
the helpe of such a religious man; I suspendit it last of all, and would not goe to vi-
site this worthie man without the presence of ane elder, whom I chose to be John
Hodge, who accompanied mee to Atbernie, and when wee came to Bennochie, it was
reported to us,'that he was departed this life, which wes so; and so wee were frus-
trat altogether of our greatest hopes.   (Signed)          Jo. HUNTERS."


