
                    CARESTON.                           533

                 This Honoris.Signe.
                 And Figvirt. Trophe. Bor-.
                 Svld Puse Aspyring Spre
                 tis. And Martial Mynd"
                 To Trust. Yair. Fortvne.
                 Fwrth. &. In Hir. Scorne.
                 Believe. In Faithe.
                 Ovr. Fait. God. Hes. Assign'd.

	On each side of the arms and the above inscription, are two
naked men, nearly full size, each riding on a lamia, and each hold-
ing a double military trophy, supported on a lance, with a flag
at top, and on either flag are the letters S, p, q, n. And above
the heads of these riding figures, are those of a naked man
and woman, holding in the right hand of the one, and the left of
the other, two cornucopiae, festooned, and united in the middle by
a Pan's head.
	In the present dining-room, above the mantel-piece, are the
Earl of Airly's arms, with the motto, A Faine. On each side of
the arms, are two antiquated urns on pedestals, each supported by
a naked man, holding the urn in his arms. On the top of each
urn, are two entire twined serpents, resting on their tails. Below
the pedestals, at some distance, and quite detached, are two very
full human faces. Much lower down, on each flank of the pro-
jecting fire-place, are two satyrs, a male on the right side, and a
female on the left, each in a state of complete nudity.
	Above what was at one time the grand entrance to the castle,
on the north side of the adjoining low buildings, are the arms of
Carneggy of Balnamoon.
	On the front of the castle, and the middle of the main building,
are the Gairntully arms. The date above these arms is 1714.
Inside the west wing, on the second story, and facing that
which appears, at the time when the wing was built, to have been
the principal stair, is a group of arms in oval shields, nine in num-
ber, and all arranged in the like oval form. In the centre are the
Carneggy arms, as already described. On the dexter side, 1st,
The arms of Hallyburton of Pitcur. 2d, The arms of the Earl
of Wemyss. 3d, The arms of Blair of Balthyock. 4th, The
arms of Carneggy. And on the sinirtdr side, 1st, Argent three
laurel leaves stipped vert-perhaps for Foulis. 2d, The arms of
the Earl of Gowrie. 3d, The arms of the Earl of Haddington,
4th, The arms of the Earl of Airly.
	In the eastern bed-room, are the Earl of Gowrie's arms, with
the motto above, "Deeds show." Exclusive of the arms, there are


