
166                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

sent in cultivation, and yield a rent of L. 46. This sum has of
late been judiciously applied to the purpose of making local im-
provements,-especially to form a pavement along the streets of
the village, which will be a great benefit to the place. The rest
of the Common is in pasture. Each feuar who pays 10s. a year of
feu-duty has a right to a cow's grass, and all the feuars are allow-
ed to "cast faill and divot on the common, for upholding and re-
pairing their houses, in quantities proportionable to their respec-
tive fee-duties." The feuars' meet every two years to choose two
bailies and a committee of five, by whom the affairs of the village
are managed. In ancient times, the Marquis of Tweeddale's factor,
(who held the office of baron bailie) and the two bailies chosen
by the feuars, met three times a-year at the Cross to settle disputes
and try delinquents. The existence of this court (which was cal-
led the Birla or Boorlaw Court, and which was discontinued only
within the last forty years,) accounts for the following characteris-
tic passage in the former Statistical Account: "There is not one
lawyer or attorney in the whole parish; and the people make it
their study to keep their affairs as much out of the hands of such
men as possible." The Boorlaw Court had a constable to en-
force their orders, and this functionary still remains in office.
The punishment usually inflicted by the court for misdemeanours
was a night's confinement in the Black Hole or the Jougs at the
Tron.*
   Ecclesiastical State.-It has been mentioned that the parish
church is situated in the village of Gifford, on the north side of
the parish. This situation, though distant from some families, is
perhaps the most convenient that could have been chosen. About
one-half of the parishioners (those in Gifford) are thus in the im-
mediate neighbourhood of the church; and of the other half the
great majority are within two miles, although a few families are
three miles distant. The church was built in the year 17O8. It
was re-seated and thoroughly repaired about five years ago, which
has rendered it very comfortable. It affords sufficient accommo-
dation for the parishioners, having been seated for 560; although
it may accommodate without inconvenience about 600. The sit-
tings (as they ought to be in an Established Church) are all free.

<FOOTNOTE>The jougs (jugum, a yoke?) were pieces of wood fastened round neck of the
culprit, and attached to an upright post, which still stands in the centre of the vil-
lage, and is used for weighing goods at the fairs. Here the culprit stood in a sort of
pillory, exposed to the taunts and missiles of the villagers.


