
270                     ARGYLESHIRE.

coasting trade of the country by the introduction of steam na-
vigation, renders it now much too small; and when the trade
between Clyde and the north-east of Scotland through the Cale-
donian Canal, which passes through the Crinan Canal, is viewed
in connection with the trade of the Crinan Canal between Clyde
and the extensive range of coast and country, islands, &c. of the
West Highlands, an enlargement of the Crinan Canal on public
grounds is certainly much called for.  The number of passengers
conveyed through the Crinan Canal by steam-packets has in-
creased from 2400 in 1820, to 21,406 in 1837, notwithstanding
the impediments which stand in the way of this trade, and which
have been partially removed during the past season, by the intro-
duction of a passage-boat on the canal, which greatly promotes
the speed of the passage between Greenock and Oban, and In-
verness.
   The local benefit which has accrued from this canal is also
deserving of notice.  At the harbour of Ardrissaig, a village
of respectable appearance, and containing a population of about
400, has grown up since the canal commenced; the resident
feuars and other inhabitants of which, attracted by the canal and
the harbour, are supported principally by the Lochfine herring
fishing, and by the general resort of travellers by steam-packets
frequenting this harbour from the Clyde.  During the fishing sea-
son, there are at times upwards of 100 fishing-boats frequenting
the harbour, and in summer there are usually two, sometimes three
steam-boats daily from Glasgow, conveying goods and passengers
to and from the adjacent country, with a daily boat, and frequent-
ly two during winter.  The number of passengers who are land-
ed and shipped at Ardrissaig throughout the year, exclusive of
those passing through the canal, is estimated from pretty correct
data to be at present about 24,000; and the cattle, sheep; and
lambs shipped here are also considerable.  Both Ardrissaig and
Lochgilphead owe their rise and present circumstances to the
fostering care and interest which John M'Neill, Esq., late of
Oakfield, with his late father (whose property these villages
were) took in promoting the interests of individuals, and of the
communities of these places.
   The average annual amount of revenue derived from the Crinan
Canal from 1st January 1802, to 31st December 1816, inclusive,
is L.999, 11s. 4 1/2d.;	and from 1st January 1818, to 31st Decem-
ber 1838, inclusive, L1770, 17s. 1 1/2d.; and as it may be inte-
                              3


