
496                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

those of some of the old infields, small parts of every farm to which
it was formerly the practice to apply all the dung, to the exclusion
of the other lands.  Of these the soil is generally deep.
   Many boulders, or large detached stones, recently cumbered
much of the soil; but they have been to a great extent removed
from the arable land within the last thirty years, at great labour
and expense, needing often to be blasted with gunpowder.
   Zoology.-There are, besides the domesticated races, only
twenty-three Mammalia ever seen in the parish.  Among these are
the red-deer, but rarely, and the variable hare in winter.  Three
species have lately come into it-the pine-marten and hedgehog
about fifteen years ago, and the gray warren-rabbit more recently.
They have probably been enticed by a fine cover of woods, now
greatly extended.
   Major Thomas Youngson, E.I.C.S., very obligingly gave his aid to
perfect a list of the Birds; and it appears we have thirty species con-
stantly resident; as many that breed here, but leave us in winter;
eleven species that are only winter visitants; thirteen species that are
often seen hunting, and six species that have been seen occasionally,
among which is the rare nutcracker, seen by Major Youngson.
One species (139, Totanus callidris of Dr Fleming's British Ani-
mals), has been very recently driven away from its breeding haunts,
by the extension of cultivation.  The Anser ferus is nearly banished
by the same cause.  This came formerly in large flocks, and of all
migratory birds kept most regularly to its time-arriving the third
week of September, and departing the second week of April.
   Our Reptiles are only five,-two lizards, two frogs, and the com-
mon toad.
   The Fishes are also few.  We have the sea-lamprey rarely;
the river-lamprey, salmon, common-trout, par, pike, minnow, com-
mon eel, and stickleback.
   The salmon are not found clean in the Don till the 1st of April.
The salmon fry disappear from the river about the middle of May.
The grilses begin to come up about the last week of June.  The
fish after spawning partly return down in winter ; but great num-
bers of the spawned fish remain in the river till the middle of
March.
   Botany.-Dr Alexander Murray, who examined the botany of
this parish several years ago, when he was resident here, has, on
solicitation, very obligingly communicated a list of all the flower-
ing plants which are native.  We have full reason for thinking his


