
                 PARISH OF LOGIE-BUCHAN. 

            PRESBYTERY OF ELLON, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

              THE REV. GEORGE CRUDEN, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name Logie is understood to signify a low-lying,
place, and has been aptly applied to an estate of about 300 acres,
on the south bank of Ythan, upon which, as situated near a
principal ferry, the church and manse have been built.  From
this circumstance that small property has given its name to the pa-
rish.  To distinguish it from others, Buchan is the addition made
to the name, from its lying wholly or in part in that district.  It
is generally considered that Buchan, the most easterly land in
Scotland, comprehends all that tract of coast which lies between the
months of the Doveran and the Don, bounded for a certain length at
least in the interior, by the courses of these rivers.  But for two cen-
turies back there have been some who considered Buchan as not ex-
tending south of the Ythan. *  Probably the most ancient division of
Scotland was into thanedoms, of which more than twenty-seven are
enumerated on the east coast, of which Formartin, lying between
the Ythan and the Don, is one.  Earldoms are spoken of as ex-
isting in the tenth century, and included several thanedoms,
which were of less extent.  That the Earldom of Buchan includ-
ed Formartin, may be inferred from this, that the diocese of Aber-
deen comprehended five deaneries, of which Buchan constituted

<FOOTNOTE>Buchania ab ostiis Doverini initium habet, secundum littus in ortum tendens
ad principium sinus Varar (Moray) dicti, unde littora circumflectuntur ad meri-
diem; in Mediterraneis fines incerti; quibusdam consentientibus eam Dona flumine
ad meridiem finiri; alii non excedunt Ythannamflumen.  Quicquid terrarum Ythan-
nam et Donam flumina interjacet, Formartini nomine apud incolas audit, qui se Bu-
chanie accenseri dedignantur.  See Gordon of Straloch's Map of Aberdeenshire in
Bleau's Atlas, and Dr Anderson's Report of the State of Agriculture in Aberdeen-
shire, 1794.
   It is probable that, from this ancient local prejudice of the Formartins, may have
arisen the common adages, "Your friends live in Buchan," i.e. "far off,"
said of a man who praises himself.  "He is like Buchan victual, twa part and third,"
i.e- " not better than he should be,' alluding to the large proportion of bear former-
ly mixed with oatmeal in Buchan.
          See Robertson's Index of Scarce Charters, News, p. xxxix.


