
    18                  PEEBLES-SHIRE.

    teind in money. In this is included the sum of L. 1O for communion
    elements. The amount of stipend varies from L.250 to L.400 a-year,
    according to the fiars prices. The teinds are so nearly exhausted,
    that no farther augmentation can take place. According to Penne-
    cuik, the annual value of the living of Peebles was 6000 merks,
    communibus annis, but to this was attached the rectory of Manor. *
    At the revolution in 1688, on the final establishment of the Pres-
    byterian Religion, when a valuation was made of the different liv-
    ings, in the Presbytery Records it is stated, that the minister of
    Manor declared, "that his paroch being a pendicle of Peebles, he
    was presented with the small vicceradge of the paroch, for the pay-
    ment whereof, he had his localitie from the paroch of Peebles.
    The parson of Peebles furnishes the communion elements." It, is
    stated by Dr Dalgliesh, that at the reformation, "the patron of the
    parish assigned part of the vicarage tithes of Peebles to the mas-
    ter of the grammar school." A vicar still exists in the parish who
    draws between L. 17 and L. 18 a-year, from the small tithes, but has
    no connexion with the grammar-school, nor any ecclesiastical esta-
    blishment, farther than precenting in church. This appointment
    is in the gift of the patron of the parish.
	The old part of the manse was built in 1770, and a front was
    added to it in 1812, giving four additional rooms. It stands on
    the top of a steep bank, 22 feet above the surface of the Tweed,
    which washes the garden on the south. It is in excellent or-
    der, and in every respect is a very desirable residence. The
    glebe consists of 6 1/2 English acres, of which about three quar-
    ters of an acre are meadow, and the rest arable, and of excellent
    quality. When the addition was made to the manse, upwards of
    an acre of meadow land was excambed from the glebe, for a piece
    of ground which lay adjoining to the garden of the manse. The
    Earl of Wemyss, who succeeded to the title and estates of the Earl
    of March, on the death of the Duke of Qucensberry, is patron of
    the parish.
	There are four dissenting places of worship in the burgh; two
    of the Associate Synod, one of which formerly belonged to the
    Antiburgher communion; one of the Relief; and one Episco-
    pal. That which belonged to the Antiburghers is now vacant,
    the last two clergymen having gone to America; but another is
    on the eve of being settled. The stipend is to be L. 65 a-year,
    with a house and garden. The other Associate Synod congrega-
    tion pay their minister L. l30 a-year, including communion ele-

<FOOTNOTE>Description, p. 2.


