	
       		PARISH OF KINNETTLES.

       	  PRESBYTERY OF FORFAR, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

		  THE REV.  ROBERT LUNAN, MINISTER.


		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THIS parish appears to have derived its name from the
Gaelic word Kinnettles, signifying "the head of the bog." The
following circumstances probably gave rise to it. The bottom of
the extensive vale of Strathmore, which comprehends the northern
part of the parish, appears, from several internal and external evi-
dences, to have formed, at a remote period, the bed of a large river
or lake, which, finding a pretty level passage into a small valley
among the Siedlaw hills, formed a kind of bay or bason,--vhhch,
when the water was diverted into another channel, formed a bog
or marsh: at the head of that bog, a church was built, probably in
the twelfth century,--which gave the name of Kinnettles to the pa-
rish.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The parish is about 2 imperial miles
in length, 2 in breadth, and, comprehending 3078 imperial acres,
contains about 4 3/4 imperial square miles. It is bounded on the
west by the parish of Glammis; on the north by the parishes of
Glammis and Forfar; on the east by the parishes of Forfar and
Inverarity; and on the south by the parish of Inverarity. Its fi-
gure is nearly a square.
	Topographical Appearances.--Being pretty equally divided from
east to west by an oblong hill, the parish is situated partly in the
vale of Strathmore, and partly in the valley formed among the
Siedlaw hills. In consequence of this oblong hill rising nearly in the
centre of the parish, the surface of the ground is generally far from
being flat. The west, north, and east sides of the hill have a gentle
declivity to the extremities of these sides; and the south side de-
clines more rapidly towards the rivulet, where the ground begins to
rise with a gentle acclivity towards the southern extremity.  Hence
the parish has four different aspects, of which the one to the north
is the largest. Now, the hill which produces all there varieties of
aspect is one of the detached Siedlaw hills, called sometimes the


