
                          ST ANDREWS.                              189

minaries of instruction. Two schools placed at a moderate dis-'
tance from the extremities' of the parish, instead of one central
school, would meet all the exigencies of the case.
The few remaining traces of superstition are fleeing away before
the progress of enlightened knowledge. But the novel and fa-
sbionable modes of have not yet been introduced.
Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons receiving
parochial aid, is 12-1 at an average of eight years; to each of whom
is allotted, only, the small pittance of from Is. 6d. to 10s. perr
annum, with occasional supplies as necessity requires. The only
sources whence funds for their relief are derived, are, church col-
lections, marriage dues, and payment for the use of the mortcloib,
which, exclusively of the first, amount annually to L. 1, 18s. 9d. But
from the same funds are paid precentor's and church officer's salaries.
The old virtuous principle of attempting self-support, so long as it
is possible, still so far prevails, that application for assistance is
seldom made, till 14 urged by necessity's supreme command!"
Fairs.-Cattle markets are held at two places in the parish,
Knockhall and Occlester, three times a year; at Candlemas, Mid-
summer, and Martinmas.
 Inns Alehouses, &c-There is only one licensed alehouse. It
is situated at the side of the road leading to a neighbouring pa-
rish, and at one of the places where a cattle-market is held. It
seems to be established for a useful purpose, is orderly kept, and
is not known to produce any bad effect upon the morals of the
people.
  Fuel.-The general description of fuel, and -indeed all that is
used here, except a small quantity of coals, brought either from
Newcastle or the ports on the Frith of Forth, is pe at, which is ob-
tained at the distance of a quarter of a mile, or at most two miles,
from each house. But as each family undertakes the labour of
cutting, drying, and carting home as much as will suffice for its
own eon,3umption,-fittle can be said satisfabtorily of the expense
of this sort of fuel. The carting alone occupies three weeks, or
a month of constant labour.

Revised Auqust 1841.

               QUOAD SACRA PARISH OF DEERNESS.

               THE REV. THOMAS WAUGH, MINISTER.

This parish lies southeast from St Andrews, from which it is
almost separated by Deer Sound: on the other sides, it is bound-


