
			GLASGOW.                          157

	Glasgow was the first place in Britain where inkle wares were
manufactured. In 1732, Mr Alexander Harvey, at the risk of
his life, brought away from Haerlem, two inkle-looms and a work-
man, and was thereby enabled to introduce the manufacture of the
article into this city. Soon after this, the Dutchman, considering
himself as ill-used by his employer, left Glasgow in disgust, and
communicated his art to Manchester.
	The manufacture of green bottles in Glasgow was introduced,
and the first bottle-house erected on the site of the present Ja-
maica Street Bottle-house, in 1735.
	It does not appear that the art of turret bell making was practised
in Glasgow till 1735. It was not, however till 1813, when Messrs
Stephen Miller and Company made the bell for the steeple of the
Gorbals church, that large turret bells were made in Glasgow.
Since that period they have made a great number, which are equal
in quality and tone to any that ever came from Holland. In the
steeple at the cross, there are twenty-eight bells, denominated
chimes, diminishing from five feet three inches, to one foot six
inches in circumference. The greater part of them have this in-
scription. " Tuned by Arniston and Cummin, 28 bells for Glas-
gow, 1735."
	In 1742, Messrs Ingram and Company fitted up a printfield at
Pollockshaws. The first delft manufactory in Scotland was begun
in Delftfield near the Broomielaw, in 1748. Mr Laurence Dinwid-
die, formerly Provost, and his brother, Governor Dinwiddie, were
two of the first partners.
	The first shoe-shop in Glasgow was opened in 1749 by Mr
William Colquboun; and in 1773, Mr George Macintosh, em-
ploying at that time upwards of 300 shoemakers for the home and
export trade, had his shoe-shop in King Street. Mr Macintosh had
also an agent in Edinburgh, where he employed a number of work-
men. At the same period the Glasgow tan-work company em-
ployed nearly 300 shoemakers, and to these two houses, the whole
export of shoes was confined.
	The haberdashery business was first introduced into Glasgow
about 1750, by Mr Andrew Lockhart. But although Mr Lock-
hart was the first person who commenced the haberdashery busi-
ness in this city, it was not till the autumn of 1787 that it was
carried on to any considerable extent. At that period, Mr J. Ross
of Carlisle, opened a shop in Spreull's new " land," and gave the
haberdashery business a tone which it had never reached before in


