
270                         PERTHSHIRE.

rational mind.  The unshaken belief of the people in witchcraft,
and the atrocities of what, it is feared was little better than a po-
pular and lawless execution, must have powerfully operated upon
their heated minds; for even to this day, when viewed at a dis-
tance through time's dusky horizon, the " Witch of Monzie" pre-
sents to the imagination a certain undefined magnitude, shedding
a dim inglorious halo around this period of our parochial history.-
Belonging to the old church of Monzie, taken down in 1830, was
an instrument of punishment called the jougs.  It was simply an
iron coll`r, fastened to the outside of the wall, near one of the
doors, by a chain.  No person alive, it is believed, has seen this
pillory put in requisition; nor is it known at what period it was
first adopted for the reformation of offenders; but there can be no
doubt, that an age which could sanction burning for witchcraft,
would see frequent occasion for this milder punishment. It is
now regarded as a relic of a barbarous age, and has been affixed
to the wall of the present church merely to gratify the curiosity of
antiquaries.
   One glimpse more may be obtained into the condition of so-
ciety at that period.  Formerly there were extensive cattle markets
held at Crieff, which have since been carried to Falkirk.  These
necessarily brought down from the north, crowds of Highlanders.
They are described by people old enough to remember them, as
barefooted and bareheaded, although many of them old men.  Be-
ing numerous, they used to enter the houses of the country people,
take unceremonious possession of their firesides and beds, carry
off the potatoes from their fields or gardens, and sometimes even
the blankets, which had afforded them a temporary covering for
the night.
   New Boundaries of the Parish.-Logiealmond and Innerpeffray
formerly belonged to the parish of Monzie, although lying detach-
ed from it, and at a great distancd from the church.  To obviate
this inconvenience, and that all might be admitted to a participa-
tion in church benefits, a decreet of the Court of Session was ob-
tained in 1702, separating them from Monzie, and annexing the
former to the parish of Moneydie, and the latter to Muthil ; by
the same decreet, the lands of Callander, Coynachan, Dalmore,
Newton, Crag-na-farer, Curriemuckloch, the three Fendochs,
Dalick, the Downies, the Lethandies, Greenfield, and Mill Rodgie,
belonging to Crieff,-as also the lands of Cultoquhey, (including
Gilmerton,) Counachan, part of the Parkneuck, belonging to


