
			EDINBURGH: PRINTED BY STARK AND COMPANY,
				  OLD ASSEMBLY CLOSE.
	144	                     CAITHNES-SHIRE.

	colonists, a people cognate with the Pechts, infused a much larger
	portion of Gothic blood into the Celtico-Pechtish population of
	the district.  The changes made, a few years ago, on the estates
	of the Duchess-Countess of Sutherland, drove a great many
	Highlanders-into Caithness, who found work and sustenance chiefly
	in the more commercial districts of the county.  This Celtic sup-
	ply is kept up by the herring-fishery, which annually brings into
	Wick very great numbers of young Highlanders, several of whom
	every year settle in the parish.  From all these causes it follows,
	that the present parishioners of Wick are an intermixture of the
	Celtic, Pecbtish, Norwegian, and, latterly, again of the Celtic
	races.
	   This is evident, both from the names and from the physical
	character, of the people.  It is difficult to sav whether the sur-
	names of Gothic or those of Gaelic origin preaominate.  Gaelic
	baptismal names are likewise very common. The physical cha-
	racter of the people also denotes their Celtico-Gotbic origin.
	Though there are some, yet there are remarkably few red or yel-
	low-haired persons in the parish. Their hair is generally black
	or very dark-brown, and their complexions correspondent. Their
	persons are taller and larger limbed than those of their Celtic
	neiglibours, though not so tall nor large as those of unmingled
	Gothic descent.  In general, their countenances are ratber round-
	ish than oval; their eyes dark; their teeth short, white and firmly
	set; and their frames spare, but straight, alert, and sinewy.  Many
	are very handsome.
	   Language.-Tbe language spoken over all the parish is, with
	exception of that of some Gaelic incomers, a dialect of the low-
	land Scottish.  It is distinguished, however, by several peculiari-
	ties.  Wherever the classical Scottish has wh, the dialect of the
	parish of Wick has f; asfat for what, fan for whan; and where-
	ever the Scottish has u, this dialect has ee ; as seen for sune, meen
	for mune, feel for fule. Ch at the beginning of words is softened
	into s, or sh; as, surch for church; shapel for chapel. Th at the
	beginning of words is often omitted.  She, her, and hers are almost
	invariably used for it and its.  This seems a Gaelic idiom; and the
	tendency to pronounce s and ch, as sh, seems a relic of Gaelic
	pronuanciation.
	   Habits.--At all-season of the year whisky is drunk in consider-
	able quantities, but during the fishing season enormous potations are
	induged in. It may seem incredible, but it has been ascertained,
				  3


