

			PARISH OF FORRES.

		PRESBYTERY OF FORRES, SYNOD OF MORAY.

		  THE REV. DUNCAN GRANT, MINISTER.

		 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-- THE most probable etymology of the name of Forres,
   is that which derives it from two Gaelic words Far, uis, denoting
   near water,--a signification which accurately corresponds with the
   locality of the town and parish ; the former of which is built on the
   banks of a small stream, and the latter is bounded, for an extent of
   several miles, by the river and bay of Findhorn.
      Extent, Boundaries, &c.-- The parish extends about four miles
   from north to south, and varies considerably in breadth from east to
   west, being in some places not more than one mile, while in others
   it is nearly three ; its greatest length is in the direction from north-
   east to south-west.  It is of an irregular form, somewhat of a tri-
   angular shape, having a narrow stripe of land projecting from its
   south-east angle for nearly three miles 'into the adjoining parish
   of Rafford, which it nearly separates into two divisions.  It is
   bounded on the north, by the bay or estuary of the rivier  Find-
   horn, a tract of sands and carse ground which is daily overflowed
   by the tide; on the north-west and west, by the river Findhorn,
   which divides it from the united parishes of Dyke and Moy; on
   the south, by a small portion of the parish of Edinkilly, and the
   parish of Rafford ; and on the east, by the parishes of Rafford and
   Kinloss.  It may contain within its limits an area of nearly seven
   square miles.
      More than one-half of the whole extent of the parish on the
   north-west side, bordering on the river, is an alluvial plain, little
   elevated above the level of the sea, under a high state of cultiva-
   tion, and beautifully enclosed and subdivided by hedges and hedge-
   row trees. The central part is agreeably diversified by small
   round hills, and gentle acclivities, the slopes of which are cultivat-
   ed, and the summits covered with thriving plantations or coppice-

  	* Drawn up by Robert Grant, Esq. of Kineorth, Advocate.


