
242                    BERWICKSHIRE.

individuals from the neighbouring districts. Two Episcopalian
ministers held the living before the Revolution,- Mr Robert Hoop-
er from 1677 to 1683, and Mr Patrick Walker from 1683 to 1688.
The first seems to have been a peaceable man; the second was a
bigotted prelatist. Mr Dysart, who was afterwards translated to
Coldingham, was the first minister after the Revolution. The next
was Mr Dawson, a highly respectable clergyman. He was suc-
ceeded in 1727 by his son, Mr James Dawson, who in 1733 was
translated to the parish of St Cuthberts. Since that time the
living has been held by Mr James Lawrie, who was removed to
Hawick in 1757; Dr David Johnston promoted to North Leith
in 1765; Mr Andrew Smith, who died in 1789; Mr Alexander
Girvan, (formerly minister of Lunan,) who died in 1809; and the
present incumbent.
   The records of session reach no farther back than 10th Sep-
tember 1727: but there was a more ancient book, which was regu-
larly presented to the presbytery both before the re-establishment
of Episcopacy and after the Revolution. It seems to have been
the only session-book within their bounds which, except in a single
instance, was never, transmitted while they were under the govern.
ment of bishops. The minutes of presbytery for December 6,1659,
state, that "the session-book of Lantoune had been delivered;" and
it is mentioned in the account of the visitation of the parish in 1700,
that "the presbytery having caled for y church Bible, Confession of
Faith,"-of which every session was required to have a copy, as well
as of the formula to be subscribed by the elders before they entered
on the exercise of their office,-"the acts of y General Assembly,
session-register, and poor's-box, they were produced and laid be-
fore y presbytery." At the visitation of 1721, though the presby-
tery found that the session had no church Bible, nor Confession
of Faith, nor the later acts of Assembly, and ordered them to be
bought, yet, when the session-register was called for, it was pre-
sented. When laid before them at Dunse the following year,
they approved of it in all respects, except an allowance of half-
a-crown given by the session to the elder who represented them
in the synod, and which the presbytery declared that "they would
not suffer to be done by any session within their bounds."
   The first part of the records which remains extends to February
1733, and is deeply interesting. It exhibits a view of the session
and of their management of the parish, so admirably fitted to pro-
mote the interests of religion, that, if realized at present through-
out the parishes of Scotland, it would demonstrate the superior
efficiency of an ecclesiastical establishment more irresistibly than


