
148                         FIFESHIRE.

ing to Sir John Sinclair) being the average that falls in the course
of the year throughout Scotland.
  Hydrography.-There is no stream or water of any consequence
running through or connected with this parish. The streamlet
flowing from Loch Gelly, in the parish of Auchterderran, and which
afterwards falls into the water of Oar in the same parish, touches
it for a little distance on the north-west, as does the Tiel oil the
south-west, and both waters are useful in turning the different mills
which are situated on them. The small brook that runs from Camilla
Loch, in the parish of Auchtertool, also bends its course through
this parish, where it joins the Tiel previous to its falling into the
sea at the west bridge. In its way, the Camilla stream serves as the
principal feeder to that beautiful and picturesque sheet of water
known by the name of the Raith Lake. This lake, which is situated
in the heart of the Raith pleasure-grounds, and at the base of the
hill on which the mansion-house is placed, was formed by the pre-
sent proprietor in the year 1811-12, and is one of the finest arti-
ficial constructions of the kind that is anywhere to be seen. It is
somewhat of an oval form, about a mile in length, and at certain
points almost a quarter of a mile in breadth. The extent of ground
it covers is not less than twenty-one acres, and the water is at some
places twerity-five deep. It was originally an extensive hollow, as if
scooped out, in some measure, for the purpose, by the hand of nature;
--and by filling it up at some places, and deepening and extending it
at others, the work was in a short time completed; a sluice is left at
the centre, by which the lake can be filled or emptied at pleasure.
The whole is finished in a masterly and ingenious manner, and the
expense was very inconsiderable, considering the surface it covers, and
the quantity of water it contains. The lake abounds in a variety of
fishes such as trout, perch, tamel, and eel. There are several pleasure
boats on it belonging to the family, and the angler may find abundance
of amusement. It is graced by some beautiful white swans, which
may now and then be seen floating majestically along, and wild
ducks are flying about in various directions. On every side, the
lake is surrounded with delightful walks-which, as well as the other
walks about Raith, are through the liberality of the proprietor, at
all times, accessible to the more respectable portion of the commu-
nity. To strangers and others, who, during the summer and au-
tumn months, come from different quarters of the country to view
the fine scenery and highly decorated unds of Raith, the lake
is a principal object of attraction and admiration.
                               4


