
566                           AYRSHIRE.

there being a freestone quarry at the east end of the parish, which
supplies all the neighbourhood with stones for the erection of houses.
As it lies on the margin of the Glasgow and Portpatrick road, and
near to Kilmarnock,a great number of stones are used  for build-
ings in that town. It is rather a coarse stone; finer kinds being
procured elsewhere for corners, windows, &c.
	Springs.--Plenty of good spring water is to be found in this pa-
rish, where the inhabitants have dug wells that afford a supply even
in the severest drought.
	Plantations.--There are no natural forests in this parish; and
the plantations consist mostly of clumps or belts. The proprietor
of Dankeith, about the year 1740, planted several belts and clumps
of planting on his property, dressed a few of his fields with com-
post, and was among the first who introduced rye-grass into Ayr-
shire. About the year 1770, Dr Fullerton of Rosemount, on his
return from India, rebuilt the mansion-house at Rosemount in a
modern style, cultivated his land, and tastefully ornamented the
grounds with belts of planting, giving employment to a great num-
ber of poor families.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-Owners.--These are, Lieutenant-Colonel William Kelso
of Dankeith; Lady Mary Montgomerie, who is patroness; Georgd
Bogle, Esq. of Rosemount; William Hay Boyd, Esq. of Townend;
James Ogilvy Fairlie, Esq. of Whitehill; Mrs Fairlie of William-
field; the Honourable David Boyle, Lord Justice-Clerk; Robert
Rankin, Esq. of Muirhouse; James Campbell, Esq. of Craigie;
Thomas Davidson, Esq. of Knockendale; and John Wilson, Esq.
of Wbitelees.
	Parochial Registers.--These have been kept so far back as the
year 1642, but very irregularly till about 1780.
	Antiquities.--This parish can scarcely boast of any antiquities.
Formerly, there was a round mound called the Law-hill, at the foot
of the village, partly natural and partly artificial, when the proprietor,
Mr Boyd, in improving his land, caused the Law-hill to be levelled
with the adjacent field. Those employed in doing so, found at no
great depth from the surface, several arrow-heads, made of iron,
most of them barbed and very rudely constructed. They also
found combs made of horn, in a pretty good state of preservation.
These are in the possesion of William H. Boyd of Towneud, and
the Rev. Mr Wharrie. There is also an Eminence near Helenton,
                             4


