
			GLASGOW.                                169

equal, if not superior, to the best French yarns. After this satis-
factory result, the business was extended to meet the demand of
the trade; but, unfortunately for the spirited introducer, death cut
him short before his plans were fully brought to a profitable result.
The business is in the meantime carried on by Messrs Hen-
ry Houldsworth and Sons, for the benefit of Captain Cochrane's
partner; and from the soft and beautiful goods which can be made
from this yarn, almost rivalling the Cashmere itself, there seems
little doubt but that in a short time, when it becomes well known
the merinos of this country will successfully compete with those of
the French.
	Timber Trade.--The merchants of Glasgow send numerous ships
to the East and West Indies, to America, and to the continent of Eu-
rope; but there is one firm which merits particular attention. Messrs
Pollock, Gilmour and Company, who are chiefly engaged in the
North American timber trade, have eight different establishments
that ship annually upwards of SIX MILLIONS cubic feet of timber; to
cut and to collect which and to prepare it for shipment, requires
upwards of FIFTEEN THOUSAND MEN, AND SIX HUNDRED HORSES
AND OXEN in constant employment; and for the accommodation
of their trade, they are owners of twenty-one large ships, the register
tonnage of which is twelve thousand and five tons, navigated by five
hundred and two seamen, carrying each trip upwards of twenty
thousand tons of timber at 40 cubic feet per ton. All of which
ships make two, and several of them three voyages annually. It
may be truly said that this establishment is unequalled in Europe.
	Messrs James and William Campbell and Company were the first
in this city to occupy as a warehouse for the retail of soft goods,
the upper flats of a tenement, instead of shops on the ground or
street floor, and although the practice of having retail places of
business on the second floor has since become pretty general in
Glasgow, it is still a peculiarity of this city. The Messrs Camp-
bells, too, were the first who successfully resisted the practice, which
bad previously obtained very generally in Glasgow, in their line of
business, of what in Scotch phrase, is termed "prigging," or de-
visting from the first price asked for goods sold in retail. They
commenced business in 1817, in the Trades Land, head of Salt-
market Street, from whence they removed in 1823, to premises
built by themselves, and which they still occupy in Candleriggs
Street.
   This establishment, now embracing the wholesale as well as the


