
                         NEWBATTLE.                           71

   Wages.-The wages of a farm-labourer for the year are 9s. per
week; for a ploughman, 10s. per week; for country artisans, such
as smiths and carpenters, 12s. per week; for masons generally a
little more.
   This being principally a grain parish, there are few sheep or
cattle kept purposely for breeding stock. The only old grass in
it are a few parks belonging to the Marquis of Lothian, and these
are generally let to fleshers for the sole purpose of feeding: Rent
from L. 3 to L. 5 per acre. The few cows and horses which the
farmers rear for the use of their families or for agricultural purposes,
are grazed in parks taken elsewhere.
   The larger farms are from 200 to 450 acres Scotch measure
in extent. The smaller ones from 20 acres up to 200.
   Husbandry.-The general character of the husbandry is good.
In regard to rotation of crops it is as follows: On a clay soil, 1.
grass; 2. oats; 3. summer fallow or beans; and 4. wheat with
grass seeds. On a light soil, 1. grass; 2. oats; 3. potatoes or tur-
nip; 4. wheat; and 5. barley, with dung and grass seed. The
whole parish, with the exception of what is under wood, being
arable, is mostly kept in tillage; and as the greater part of it is
wet clay, draining is much wanted. This, indeed, is one of the
greatest improvements of which it is susceptible, and it is now be-
ginning to be adopted.* Were it completely drained and stripes of
wood judiciously planted for shelter, its value would be increased,
and its beauty improved. These, with the advantage of markets
near at hand, and the great abundance of coal and lime which it
contains, will render it, under the management of a skilful and ac-
tive tenantry, not less productive than any parish, of equal extent,
in the county.
   Leases.-The general duration of leases is nineteen years, which
seems to be fair a period both for landlord and tenant, when the
farm is taken in good order; but when the land is wasted or run
out, the lease ought to be longer, especially where draining is ne-
cessary, and is to be performed at the expense of the tenant.
   The farm steadings in general are of long standing, and some
of them rather in a state of decay, which is a bar to the keeping
of stock. The enclosures also, with the exception of those im-
mediately round the Abbey, are incomplete. This is in a great

<FOOTNOTE>Many plantations are now being made by the Marquis of Lothian, both in the
shape of stripes and clumps, which will answer these purposes.


