                     
                      UNITED PARISHES OF

                    MOY AND DALARROSSIE.

             PRESBYTERY OF INVERNESS, SYNOD OF MORAY.

           THE REV. JAMES M'LAUCHALAN, MINISTER.       


             I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     THERE is perhaps not a parish in Scothland which has undergone
less change than this, since the time of the former Account.  The
face of the country, the state of agriculture, and the manners of
the people, are still the same; the latter perhaps a little modified
by the influence of education.
     Names.--As may seen by the title, this parish is divided into
two, one called Moy, and the other Dalarrossie; they were united
at a time of which we have no record either written or traditional.
The name of the former is derived from the word Magh, a plain,
corresponding with the nature of the ground which lies within the
distance of two miles round the church; while the name of the
latter is generally supposed to be from the Gaelic Dalferghais,
signifying Fergus's Dale,--this being, as tradition says, one of the
hunting grounds of Fergus the First of Scotland.  This is, however,
usurping too high a dignity for the place, which at least, in its pre-
sent state, offers few attractions for a kingly residence.
     Extent, Boundaries.--The united parishes extend, in length,
to about 30 miles in a south-westerly direction, and in breadth to
about 5 miles.
     Topographical Appearances.--The greater part of the parish is
composed of cold bleak hills; while the inhabited portion is merely
a narrow stripe lying along each side of the river Findhorn.  It is, in
fact, merely a mountain glen,--through which this river flows, hav-
ing rapid streams joining it, which pour down their torrents through
every hollow in the mountains.  The glen is at an average about
three quarters of a mile in breadth, and at every turn of the river
is studded with farm houses, to which a few arable acres are at-
tached.  Towards the lower end of the glen, the river is joined by
another smaller stream called the Funtack, which issues out of
  INVERNESS.                       G


