
			               CUPAR.                             9

	to be remarked, too, that the increase has taken place principally
	in the town of Cupar, and in the two villages of Springfield and
	Glaidney Cotton,-the one on the western, and the other on the
	southern extremity of the parish.  In the landward part of the
	parish, the population has diminished rather than increased.

	<TABLE>
	    Number of population in the town of Cupar is about	          5600
	    That of Springfield and neighbourhood,                         500
                    Glaidney, 						   300
	            the landward part,					   673
	    Number of families in the parish,				  1482
	                       chiefly employed in agriculture,            142
						in handicraft,             766

	   It is impossible to give any accurate average of the births in the
	parish, as the dissenters of all kinds are in the practice of declin-
	ing to register their children in the parish register.  The funerals
	that take place in the parish amount to about 149 annually.  Of
	these, some are brought from adjoining parishes; while many of
	those that die in the parish are carried out of it for burial.  The
	number of marriages, or at least of proclamations for marriage,
	amounts to 56 or thereby.
	    Land-owners.-The parish can boast of no nobility resident in
	it, and none connected with it except the Earl of Glasgow, who, as
	heir to the Crawford estates, ranks as an heritor. There are, how-
	ever, residing in it 14 families of independent fortune.  All these
	are landed proprietors, and with an yearly income from their land
	of L. 50 and upwards.
	    There is nothing peculiar in the strength, size, complexion, or
	other personal qualities of the inhabitants.  There are only two
	cases of confirmed derangement in the parish.  Of late, the at-
	tention of the public to any instance of temporary derangement
	has been particularly favourable to their speedy recovery.  By
	sending the patients, or, if paupers, by applying to have them sent,
	immediately to the very excellent and well-conducted asylum at
	Dundee, the effect has been truly gratifying.  Of five or six that
	have been sent within these ten years, all have been restored, af-
	ter one or two quarters' confinement, perfectly cured.  There are
	four or five fatuous cases in the parish; one of blindness, occa-
	sioned by accident; none deaf and dumb.
		                IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture.-The state of agriculture in this parish is the most
	approved.  The number of acres is 5545, imperial measure.  Where
	every acre is arable, and either under the plough or covered with
	plantations in various stages of advancement,every spot wears the ap-

