
     Statistical Account

difficulties having occurred, respecting the nature of the
property liable to the payment of these assessment, parti

   pared to it, either in respect to the nature of the fund, or the purity of its
management.  But where they are insufficient, recourse must be had to as-
sessments, or poors-rates, as they are frequently called, per invidiam; be-
cause that is a term that ought to-occasion no small alarm, though in very
material respects, they are entirely different from the tax of that name in
England* Those assessments, when recourse must be had to them, ought in
justice and common sense to be as equally and fairly laid on as possible In
country parishes, where there are no other inhabitants, but landholders and
their renants and cottages, when the collections are insufficient, the bur-
den must fall upon the land, that is, on the beritois and their tenants, be-
cause the cottages are unable to pay.  But in large towns such as this,
where the rents of houses and other rentable property are equal to that of the
land rent, it would be quite unreasonable and unjust to throw the whole
burden on the land; and no rule seems to be more equal than the rental, 
deducing a fourth for repairs and always exempting the houses below a
certain sum, to vary according to the circumstances of the place.  I know
few subjects, that more deserve the attention of all men of property of this
country, landed or otherwise, than the maintenance of the poor.  At pre-
sent, when they are past then labour, they are wretchedly ill supported in
towns, though nothing can be laid to the charge of the administrators for
the poor, who manage their scanty funds with the utmost frugality.  Were
it not for the great number of societies in this, and in other parishes of like
description, who, by means of weekly subscriptions of small sums, raise a
fund for aid to their members, when they are laid off their work by sick-
ness, or for annuities to their widows after their decease, the poor would 
become a much heavier load on the opulent than they are at present.

   There are many useful hints and observations on this subject in the dif-
ferent Statistical Accounts; and none, that the writer of this article has obser-
ved, better than those that are to be found in the account of the parish of
Portmoak, (vol. 5. p. 156).  It must be observed, however, that the author,
after having stated the disadvantages that arise from a legal provision, im-
mediately proposes to have the subscriptions of societies authorised by law,
which seems to be making them liable to those very disadvantages which
he had just stated.  For the method he approves of seems little different

<FOOTNOTE>

*See Statistical Account of Alloa, vol. 8. No. 40.
 

