
     Statistical Account

rish, and a catechist from the Royal bounty.  The par-
rochial salary is 200 merks, and a good school-house.
The Society's salary in Kinchardine is L. 9, and one 
of the best school-houses in the Highlands.-There is no 
parochial fund for the poor, but the weekly collec-
tions in the church, which will not exceed L. 6 a-year at
an average, there being no residing heritors.  These col-
lections are not sufficent to buy shoes for the poor, for the
half of the year.  They live on the farmers, by begging
from door to door.  It is in this way the parishioners give 
their charity chiefly, which they do very liberally.  To 
keep within bounds, the parishioners bestow 100 bolls of 
meal a-year on the poor that beg, and other donations sent
to such as, by age or infirmities, are confined at some home.
This calculation is within the truth, and easily made:  A
family that gives regularly to such objects, will, in the 
common way, consume a peck of meal each week, which 
exceeds three bolls in the year to such a family.  This is 
a heavy burden upon the tenants, and calls upon heritors
to contribute to their relief*.

   Antiquities.-There is a large oblong square building
near the church, called Castle-Roy, or the Red-Castle, one

<FOOTNOTE>

*Wages, Fuel, etc.-Men servants get from L. 2, 10 s, to L. 3 in the
half year, women 18 s. and L. 1, and some more; men labourers generally
1 s. the day; women, 6 d, when engaged for the day at peats, etc.
Servants are only engaged here or the half year, which is attended with
great inconvenienceies and much loss of labour to the farmer.  In short
there are hardly any regulations for servants in the north of Scotland, which
is severely felt.  The fuel of the parish is peat and wood, with which all,
upon the whole, are well supplied to the castin, winning, and leading 
of them, makes them much more expensive than coals are to such as have
easy access to them.  Besides, there not being such a comfortable constant
fire, there is much waste of time, cattle, and carts in all the operations of
them; and after a risk of being ill fired after all, or getting few of them
home, the these is bad order in rainy seasons.


