
			AYR.                            73

libraries. This affords one instance among many, that when
an institution sets out at first on a wrong principle, it is ex-
ceedingly difficult afterwards to get it rectified.
	Newspapers.--There are two county newspapers published week-
ly in Ayr; the one on Thursday, the other on Tuesday. The
Advertiser is of long standing, and of Whig politics; the Ob-
server is Conservative, though conducted in a very moderate and
judicious manner. They both appear to thrive, as they circulate
over a verv extensive and populous district, which contains a people
much given to reading.--We have also a handsome well-lighted
reading-room, where newspapers and periodicals are to be found
in abundance, suited to all tastes and opinions, and where the ut-
most order and quietness are maintained.
	Mechanics' Institution.--The observation we lately made in re-
gard to the town library has received a forcible exemplification
from the progress of that of the mechanics. It was only instituted
in 1825, and since that time it has been rapidly increasing, both
in extent and utility. It contains already 2500 volumes of well-
selected books, nearly as many as the other, and has from 150 to
200 members. These pay only six shillings a year each, thus
forming a fund for the purchase of new publications, of upwards
of L. 40 per annum. The library has been greatly augmented of
late, by liberal donations from private individuals. Lectures on
scientific subjects are occasionally delivered to the mechanics, and
they probably would be continued in a more regular and systema-
tic form, were it not for the want of a suitable lecture-room. We
trust this may soon be found, for the benefit of this useful and re-
spectable class of our fellow-townsmen, and the success of their
very laudable institution.
        Charitable Institutions-Poor's House.-There is a poor's house
or hospital in the town, which was built in the year 1759, with
sums contributed by the magistrates and other public bodies. It is
stated in the last Statistical Account, that, at the time wben it was
built, it was capable of accommodating about sixty inmates, young
and old. The number now admitted into it seldom exceeds twenty-
five, and is commonly about twenty. These consist of persons
not merely destitute, but entirely unable to take care of themselves,
and who, but for this establishment, would require to be entrusted to
the charge of nurses, at an expense additional to their aliment.
Were it not on this account, it would be of little use to the town
for behoof of the poor, as the latter prefer living in houses of their


