
<APPENDIX>

xix
   In many parts of the Continent, more particularly in Germany, Statisti-
cal Inquiries, as they are called*, have been carried to a very great ex-
tent; but in no country, it is believed, can they be brought to such perfec-
tion as in Scotland, which boasts of an ecclesiastical establishment, whose
members will yield to no description of men, for public zeal, as well as for
private virtue, for intelligence, and for ability.
   I flatter myself, that upon this occasion, they will not be backward in
contributing their aid, to promote an attempt, which may prove of consider-
able service to the country at large, and cannot fail to add to the reputa-
tion and character, which the Church of Scotland has already so deservedly
acquired for public utility.

     I have the honour to be,
     Sir, you very obedient,
     And faithful humble servant,
     JOHN SINCLAIR.

     EDINBURGH,
     May 25, 1790.

   N. B.  It is not expected, that all the inclosed Queries should be answer-
ed by any individual; nor is minute exactness looked for:  but it is request-
ed, that as many questions may be attended to, as circumstances will ad-
mit of.
   In the event of a vacancy in the parish, or where the present incumbent
is prevented, by sickness or otherwise, from sending an answer, it is intreat-
ed that some neighbouring clergyman would take that trouble upon him-
self.
   It is submitted, whether it might not be proper to insert the Queries and
Answers in any parochial register, that in after times the future state of the
parish, may be compared with its situation at present.
   Any answer to these Queries may be directed to Sir John Sinclair of Ulb-
ster, Baronet, Member of Parliament, Edinburgh, who will thankfully ac-
knowledge the receipt of any paper upon this subject, that may be addressed
to him.
   It may be proper to add, that if it is thought advisable to publish such
an account of Scotland, as may be drawn up from the materials, to be thus
collected, any profit that can be derived from the publication, is to be
dedicated to an institution lately formed, for the Benefit of the Sons of the
Clergy of the Church of Scotland, which seems to merit every possible en-
couragement.

<FOOTNOTE>

*. Inquiries respecting the Population, the Political Circumstances,
the Productions of a Country, and other Matters of State.


