
142                        LANARKSHIRE.

forming what is called a head, with a separate movement by a pulley
and drum, as is the case in the frame, the whole rollers and spindles
on both sides of the throstle are connected together, and turned by
bands from a tin cylinder lying horizontally under the machine,
but its chief merit consists in the simplification of the apparatus,
which renders the movement lighter. Besides this, the throstle
can with more ease and at less expense than the frame be altered
to spin the different grists of yarn.
	In the year 1775, Mr Samuel Crompton, of Bolton, completed
his invention of the mule jenny, so called from its being in its struc-
ture and operation a compound of the spinning-frame, and of Har-
greave's jenny. The mule was originally worked by the spinner's
hand, but in the year 1792, Mr William Kelly of Glasgow, at that
time manager of the Lanark mills, obtained a patent for moving it
by machinery; and although the undisputed inventor of the pro-
cess, he allowed every one freely to avail himself of its advantages.
A great object expected to be obtained by this improvement was,
that, instead of employing men as spinners, which was indispen-
sable when, the machine was to be worked by the hand, children
would be able to perform every office required. To give the means
of accomplishing this, Mr Kelly's machinery was contrived so as
to move every part of the mule, even to the returning of the carriage
into its place, after the draught was finished. But after a short
trial of this mode of spinning it was discovered that a greater amount
of produce might be obtained, and at a cheaper rate, by taking
back the men as spinners, and employing them to return the car-
riage as formerly, whilst the machine performed the other operations.
In this way one man might spin two mules, the carriage of the one
moving out during the time the spinner was engaged in returning
the other. The process of mule-spinning continued to be conduct-
ed upon this plan until lately, when several proprietors of large
cotton works restored that part of Mr Kelly's machinery which re-
turns the carriage into its place after the draught is completed.
	During the time that the machines for the different processes
of cotton spinning were advancing towards perfection, Mr James
Watt had applied his admirable improvements on the steam-en-
gine to give motion to mill-work in general. His inventions for
this end, besides the ingenuity and beauty of contrivance which
they possess, have had an influence upon the circumstances of this
country, and of mankind, far more important than that, produced
by any other mechanical discovery.


