
32                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

acres.  Yet, if we except two farms that have almost wholly been
brought into regular cultivation within the last ten or fifteen years,
there is not such a thing as an arable farm in the parish.  They
are all sheep-farms, with arable land attached to them.  Thirty
years ago, when they were let on lease, nothing was said about the
value per acre: it was the sheep which the farm could contain that
were valued.  The number of acres which remain constantly in
sheep-pasture is 25,700.  The number of acres that are at present
uninclosed sheep-pasture, and that might be cultivated, may per-
haps amount to 1500, or somewhat more; but whether any thing
like this extent could, with a profitable application of capital, be
added to the cultivated land, may be reasonably doubted.  There
are about 500 acres of planted wood; and probably 30 acres of
brushwood, consisting of hazel and birch chiefly, intermixed with
dwarfish specimens of the trees and shrubs enumerated as indige-
nous.  The trees generally planted now are larch, oak, ash, and elm.
  Rent of Land.--As the arable land in the parish is never let by
the acre, the value of it is a somewhat difficult matter to settle.
We are inclined to state the average rent at 23s. per acre, and the
produce at L. 3, 9s. 6d.  The average rent of the sheep-pasture
is nearly 2s. 7 3/4d. per acre; the average produce 4s. 8d.
  As the sheep-pasture has sometimes no arable ground attached
to it, the value is more easily determined; the average of the un-
cultivated land is nearly 4s. 3d. per sheep's grass; on cultivated
land 9s.; and an ox or cow L. 3, 10s.
  Rate of Wages.--The wages of labour of a man throughout the
year is 1s. 8d. per day; and of a woman for hoeing turnips, hay-
making, and barn-work in winter, 10d.
  Breeds of Live Stock.--The old breed of cattle in Tweeddale
was light-bodied and long-legged, with rather long up-turned horns,
and spotted brown, blick, or white.  About forty or fifty years ago
this breed was greatly improved by the produce of an Alderney bull
and two queys, that were brought into the country by the late Earl
of Traquair.  Of late years, well-bred bulls from Northumberland
are annually procured by some of the principal farmers; and con-
sequently, allowing for the bareness of our pasture, the breed of
cattle is every year drawing nearer to that of the shires of Selkirk
and Roxburgh, and perhaps might be in some risk of becoming in
general too heavy for the district.
  The breed of sheep is the black-faced and Cheviot, both greatly





