

			MUIRAVONSIDE.    	        213

ings extend to the westward, where it is much needed. Police
dung from Edinburgh is employed to a great extent. Lime also
from the neighbouring parish of Linlithgow, is largely used. The
farm-buildings are much improved, being adapted in the east to
farms of 300 or 400 acres; in the west, to 40 or 50. In the small
farms, the want of shelter and enclosure and capital is great.
   The farms in the eastern district are generally allotted into five
parts,--two in grass, one in green crop, one in wheat or barley, one
in oats. The grass, including hay, may be reckoned at L.5; green
crop L.16; the grain at L.6 per acre; and though the system of
farming to the westward is various, and the soil inferior, the extent
of surface may render its produce double.
   The gross annual produce may be stated thus: Grain, L.20,000;
green crop, L.10,400; hay and grass, L.7850; in all, L.38,250.

              	        V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.--Falkirk, though five miles distant, is the market-
town for the parish, rather than Linlithgow, which is distant but
three. Maudiston, hanging in picturesque confusion on the slope
of its hill, and by the sides of its bridge, is the principal village.
Our means of communication are ample. The Stirling and Edlin-
burgh road, the Union Canal, a railway nearly finished by Sla-
mannan to Glasgow, another commenced between Glasgow and
Edinburgh, all intersect the parish.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church and manse were built within
these thirty years, and are sufficient and in good repair; but the for-.
mer, being within two miles of the east end, and six of the west,
is, especially in bad weather, inaccessible to many. It may accom-
modate 600. The glebe is worth L.12 a year. The stipend,
chiefly money, from L.240 to L.260. The attendance at the
parish church is good; in that of the United Secession, small;
one-sixth of the population only dissenting. Our communicants
are 280 in number. Church collections L.50.
   Education.--There are two schools. The parish school has
the maximum salary, a glebe of 6 acres, and 100 well taught
scholars, several in Latin, and the greater part learning reading,
writing, arithmetic, grammar, and geography. The second school,
with an excellent free house at Avonbridge, is under the control
of the parents of the children attending; it is at present flourishing.
   Library.--There is a parochial library of 120 volumes.
   Poor.--There are 14 paupers, receiving from 4s. to 12s. a


