
                           LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.                      1119

in Dr Garden's edition of his works, but in a Latin dress, which
much impairs, in many cases, its highly expressive phrascology.
    Alexander Irving of Lenturk.-This gentleman was a lawyer of
eminence, and the author of a treatise "De Jure Regni," publish-
ed at Leyden in 1627, and again at Helmstadt in 1671,-a work
which is held in good esteem. He died before 1641, when Robert
Irving, his cousin-german, was served heir to him in the lands of
Lenturk.
    Matthew Lumsden of Tilliecairn.-He was the brother of the
Laird of Cushnie, the proprietor of Tilliecairn, in the parish of
Clunie, where an old castle still stands, and the author of a "Ge-
nealogical History of the House of Forbes," published with con-
tinuations in 1819. He died the 27th June 1580.
    Andrew Lumsden.-This gentleman was private secretary to
Prince Charles Edward; and in an account of his family given by
himself, and published in the Analecta Scotica, he traces his de-
scent from the house of Cushnie. He is the author of "Remarks
on the Antiquities of Rome and its Environs," Lond. 1797, 4to,
-a work which called forth the praise of the learned Matthias,
and is still in considerable estimation. Several interesting papers
by Father Innes, author of the justly celebrated "Essay on the
Ancient Inhabitants of Scotland," preserved in the hand-writing
of Andrew Lumsden, with some notices of the life of that eminent
antiquary, have been included in the last publication of the Spal-
ding Club. Mr Lumsden died at Edinburgh on the 26th De-
cember 1801, at the age of eighty-one.*
    John Lumsden of Cushnie.-He was the second son of John
Lumsden of Cushnie, and highly distinguished himself in the civil
service of the East India Company. After filling various subor-
dinate situations with great "credit and ability," he was called in
1805 to be a member of the supreme council, an office which he
held for seven years "with eminent advantage to the public ser-
vice." When he embarked for Europe in 1813, after having serv-
ed the Company for nearly thirty-six years, he obtained from the
Governor-General, in a letter to the Directors, an honourable tes-
timony to the "unsullied purity of his character both in public
and private life, his official knowledge equally useful and exten-
sive, and the ability with which he had discharged the functions of
the different situation (even the highest, and most arduous) in
which he had been placed." In 1817, he became a candidate for

<FOOTNOTE>* Spalding Club Miscellany, Vol. ii. pp. cxiv-cxxi. 363-38O.


