
                        PAISLEY.                        251

   In this parish, the number of unmarried men, bachelor, and
widowers, upwards of 50 years of age, amounts to 274, and of un-
married women, upwards of 45, to 507.  The deaf, dumb, and in-
sane, are 50 in number.
   These particulars in the burgh parishes have not been ascertain-
ed, but they may be regarded as existing in a similar proportion
when taken in connection with the population.
   We may add, that in proportion to the population, Paisley can
show as many instances of longevity as most places throughout Scot-
land.  No doubt our people who are employed in mining and mecha-
nical operations are liable to many accidents, which tend to shorten
human life, and in some of our manufactories the employment is
by no means of the most healthful description.  Within these few
years, however, we attended the funeral of a man\f* who died at
Elderslie, in the 116th year of his age; an individual lately died
at Thorn, aged 100 years; and on the 20th of August last, there
was present on a convivial occasion, a woman, in her 94th year, of
the name of Jean, who had the pleasure of seeing, on that occa-
sion, her daughter Jean, her grand-daughter Jean, and great-
grand-daughter Jean, all named after each other in succession.
Within these few weeks we know of four individuals in the town
who have died at the venerable age of 90 and upwards.
   Land-owners.-Of landed proprietors, not a great number are
resident.  But in addition to those that reside, a considerable
number of gentlemen who have realized, or who are realizing, an
independent fortune, live either in the burgh, or in the country part
of the Abbey parish.
   General Habits of the People.-There is nothing peculiar in the
language spoken by the inhabitants of Paisley.  Like that of other
parts of the country, it may be said to have its provincialisms ; but,
upon the whole, these are less marked than they once were, and
within the last forty years, the language of the natives may be said
to be much improved.
   The custom is still too prevalent of making bargains over a
glass, as it is called, or in a public-house, and it is much to be re-
gretted that the practice of dram-drinking is so very common as
it is.  The ice in winter, and the bowling green in summer, the
race-course, and the theatre, are favourite places of resort with many
of the inhabitants.

<TABLE> \f Hugh Shaw, born in Sorbie, served under the Duke of Cumberland in 1745-6.

