
DUNINO.                                       373

cally situated; and there are but two or three families of Se-
ceders.
 Poor's Funds.-The poor's revenue at Dunino requires no long
recital. There is but a single pauper oa the kirk-session fund, at
2s. a-month; but the lieritors have, since autumn 1834, contribut-
ed, according to tl,ielr valued rent, L. 6, 4s. 5d ' to support other
four paupers, at 2s. or 3s. a-month each, as circumstances re-
quire, with an additional boon out of this sum to btiy coals. The
kirk-session fund consists of the following items: a small sum for
church seat-rent; a tax on the use of the mortcloth, and the pro-
clamation of marriage banns ; penalty on illegitimate births in
certain cases (and two illegitimate births occur perhaps twice in
three years;) the proceeds from collections at the church door, and
from money deposited at interest,-forinino, a small total annually
of about L. 9, 8s. 7d. From this little capital fall to be paid, be-
sides the pauper, the session-clerk, presenter, kirk-officer, the sy-
nod and presbytery clerk, and presbytery officer. Thus the pro-
vision for the poor, and for the whole kirk-segsional bus.iness of the
parish, does not exceed L. 15, 13s. a-year.
  Education.*-There has never been but one parochial school in

  According to the parish register in the year 1643, a declaration was issued by
the Presbytery of St Andrews, to be published in every parish within their bounds,
andwhich was confirmed by the General Assembly, the tenor whereof follows: 11 That
the woful ignorance, rudeness, stubbornness, incapacity seen arnong the, common peo-
ple, proceed from want of schools in landward, and not putting bairns to school where
they are-therefore it is ordained that all possible means be used, that there be a
school ill every congregation, and that where there is one already, every one that hath
children put them to school, if past seven years old-if the parents be poor, that the
kirksession take order for paying the schoolmaster either out of the poor's box, or
by a quarterly collection-but if the parents be able, then let them be obliged both
to send their bairns when time session gives order, and not to remove theyn till the
,Session be acquainted," In the spirit of this wise declaration. it is said in the regis-
ter, that 11 Tuesday, 6th June 1643, the minister, with the heritors Of tile Farish and
elders of the session, did convene at the kirk : there was lent out of the box for ad-
vancement to "Tuesday James Richardsone, reader, for bypast service, 108 inerks," (that
is, L. 6, Sterling,) "As also it was ordained that Mr James should beginne his school
on  Moonday next, and that he should have a hundredth pound a year," (that is,
L.8, 6s. 8d. Sterling,) 11 and that the same should be payed to him at two tert s
in the yeir, viz. Whitsunday and Martinmasse." Whatever the school fees were, this
was a handsome salary ; for, being twenty-four years before the seventh year of Charles
II., when the valued rent takeAy Crirnwell was confirmed as the standard of va-
luation, the L. 100 Scotch in the parish might be equal to L. 1400 Scotch now, or
116, 13s. 4d. After the act passed in the reign of William III. 1696, - settling
a school in every parish not alre_idy provided, by advice of the heritors and minister,"
leaving out the kirk-session,-Mr Dick was schoolmaster of Dunino for twenty years,
from 1698 to 1718, whose salary was the maximum then allowed by law, or L. 11
2s- 21d. Supposing his salary twelve times the present norninal amount, it would
reach to L. 133, G.., that is L. 16, 12s. 8d. more than Nir Richardsone's. In addi-
tion to this, provisions during Mr Dick's time were generally cheap, and his school
fees enormous. Though in 1698, according.-to the Fife flars register, the oatrneal a


