
112                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

more than forty years ago, however, a rat seemed so rare and
strange a creature, that the children were let loose from the parish
school for the express purpose of seeing the skeleton of one which
had been found, to the surprise of the whole neighbourbood, at the
demolition of the old ferry house.
  In the high grounds, grouse are still found in considerable num-
bers, although gradually giving way to the more muscular black
game. The partridge coveys have multiplied with the cultivation
of the fields below. Hares are not increasing in number. In their
season, snipe and woodcock are abundant in certain localities: but
pheasants, although all the ordinary arts have been employed to
naturalize them in covers apparently most agreeable to their habits,
- the soil has hitherto put fort no virtue sufficient to attract.
   The surrounding waters periodically abound with herrings; and
salmon * are caught at different stations in considerable numbers;
but there is nothing peculiar in the mode of fishing either. In re-
gard to the herrings, it may be stated that they appear in the
Gareloch sooner than in any other of the western lochs, and are
fully equal in quality to those of Loch Fine. Of late years, they
have not been so numerous as formerly, owing, as many persons
in lack of a more exact philosophy imagine, to the frequent passing
and repassing of steam-vessels in all directions, and more especially
where the waters of the Gareloch and Lochlong diverge from the
estuary of the Clyde.
   The symptoms of the approach of the shoal for the season are
familiar to the natives, and always excite interest around our shores.
Nor does the flight of gulls and other aquatics, or the harlequin
movements of the porpoises in the end of May or beginning of
June, contribute more to the picturesque aspect of our secluded
waters, than they excite agreeable sensations, as the well known
heralds of God's bounty, on its way with each coming tide from
the prolific depths of the more distant ocean.
   There is, besides, a great variety of fishes, more or less abun-
dant, fit for the table, found in our contiguous waters, viz. sea-trout,
haddock, common or rock-cod, ling, (20 lbs.) whiting, skate, mac-
kerel, flounders of all varieties, sethe, lithe; but, from whatever
cause, they are all less numerous than about ten or twenty years ago.
In addition to these others, are occasionally found, such as the hali-

<FOOTNOTE>In the twelfth century, A melec, the Earl of Lennox, granted to the monks of Pais-
ley a right to all the salmon fishing in the Gare'och, reserving to himself and heirs
every fourth salmon.


