
                            DUNNET.                                  41

    about 300 Highlanders from Assynt and Strathnaver,  who had
    been removed from their possessions by the  introduction of sheep-
    farming, and came to this parish. The greater part of them, had
    removed before 1831. Their habits not being adapted to an in-
    dustrious life, they soon got in arrears with the landlord, and
    went off, some to the Highlands, others to America. With the
    above exception, the increase of population has risen partly from
    the extension of cultivation, and the fisheries, and the abolition of
    the feudal service which left the people more to their own re-
    sources.
       The whole inhabitants may be said to be of the agricultural
    class, though those along the shore side are frequently employ-
    ed in fishing. The parish is occupied by 34 tenants, paying from
    L.8 to L.350 rent yearly, and 201 paying from 5s. to L.8 year
    ly: there are besides ten large farms or mains in the occupation
    of the proprietors.
       Language, &c.- The English language only is spoken by the
    original inhabitants. The few Highlanders remaining still partly
    retain the Gaelic. The children all speak English, and that much
    better than in the southern counties. Playing the knotty (golf)
    on New-Year's Day is almost the only game practised.
       Habits of the People.-The habits of the people in dress and
    cleanliness have much improved of late years.  The ordinary food
    is oat and barley-meal, with potatoes, fish, pork, beef, and occa-
    sionally tea and coffee. The practice of making malt and brew -
    ing ale is still understood; but the severity of the excise laws pre-
    vents people from a liberal use of this wholesome beverage. There
    are, no doubt, numbers in the parish who are much pinched in cir-
    cumstances; but in general, potatoes and fish of one kind or ano-
    ther, and meal and milk, are within the reach of all. Mostly every
    householder keeps a pig, the pork of which is used in summer, boil-
    ed with cabbage, and though there are a number of families very
    poor, from circumstances over which they have no control, still
    the mass of the population may be said to live comfortably, and
    with a considerable degree of independence.
       With regard to general character, they are an acute, sagacious,
    and moral set of people, and possessed of considerable energy in
    managing their own affairs.  With some them is, perhaps, a want
    of industry, but this originates more from the  nature of their
    situation than from indolence.  The fisherman's life is too near
    akin to the hunter's for constant application, and the smaller te-



