
                               STRATHMIGLO.                    779

of intermediate agents ; but of late, almost the whole trade has
been carried on by resident manufacturers, transacting business on
their own account. There are also in the parish a bleachfield and
a spinning-mill, both of which are upon a small scale. Those
employed in weaving are of course paid by the piece, and work
from ten to fourteen hours per day. From the fluctuations in
trade, the rate of remuneration is necessarily very variable. A
few years ago, it was double and even treble its present amount.
But although this, in common with other manufacturing districts,
has severely felt the late depression of trade, very few have here
been destitute of employment for any great length of time; and,
small as the wages have been, and still are, it has not been found
necessary, as in many other localities under similar circumstances,
to have recourse to extraordinary measures to meet the pressing
wants of the population.

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market in this parish; but in the
adjacent towns of Auchtermuchty, Milnathort, Newburgh, and
Cupar, at distances varying from two to eleven miles, regular
weekly markets are held. Auchtermuchty is the nearest. In
Newburgh, at the distance of eight miles, a ready market is af-
forded for potatoes, cattle, swine, &c., which are shipped thence
for the London market. The population in the village of Strath-
miglo and its outskirts amounts to nearly 1400. The only other
village is Edenshead or Gateside.
   Means of Communication.-These are in general good. The
parish may contain eight miles of turnpike, and five of statute la-
bour roads, all kept in excellent order. Here, as throughout the
country at large, improvement is in nothing so evident as in the
highways. The post-office here is an appendage to that of Kin-
ross. No public carriages pass at present through Strathmiglo.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated near the
east extremity of the parish ; but, being in the centre of the vil-
lage, containing the mass of the population, no fault can be found
with its site. It was built about fifty-eight years ago, and is in
tolerable repair ; but it is a paltry structure, and ill seated within.
It is also rather small, containing accommodation for 750 persons.
There are no free sittings, the whole area being divided among
the heritors. The price charged for a sitting, however, is small,
being from 1s. to 2s. 6d. annually. The manse is sixty years
old, and from its situation was rather damp `nd confined. About



