
                            MAYBOLE.                            365

  by subscription, surrounded it with a wall, and tastefully laid out
and planted the enclosure.
	There are throughout the parish the remains of a great many
castles, the ancient seats of those feudal chiefs who figure in the
history of the Kennedys, and in the civil broils of the times. Be-
sides the Castle of Maybole, the former residence of the Earls of
Cassilis, and the principal part of which is still in excellent pre-
servation, there are, more or less entire, the Castles of Newark,
Greenan, Dunduff, Dunure, and Kilhenzie; while those of Bridg-
end or Doonside, Smithstowne, Sauchrie, Craigskean, Beoch,
Garryhorne, Glenayes, Brochlock, and Dalduff, are only to be
traced in a few ruinous walls.
	There are also within the town of Maybole several remains of
its former consequence and splendour, when, as the provincial ca-
pital it was resorted to in winter by many of the principal families
in Carrick. Besides the dwellings of the ecclesiastics and the
Earl of Cassilis, commonly designated in these days the King of
Carrick, the following houses of the gentry still remain; the pre-
sent tolbooth, the town residence of the Lairds of Blairquban;
the house of Sir Thomas Kennedy of Culzean, now belonging
to Mr Niven of Kirkbride; the house of Kennedy of Ballemore,
in the Kirk Wynd; the Garden of Eden, the house of the abbots
of Crossraguel, &c. extending, according to some, to the number
of twenty-eight.
	The civil jurisdiction of Carrick was a bailliarie, belonging he-
ritably to the Earls of Cassilis; and Maybole derived an additional
degree of consequence from being the ordinary seat of the courts
of justice, when the most important cases were tried, and the pu-
nishment of death frequently inflicted. The Gallow Hill still points
out the place of execution; and there are people alive who re-
member those who could tell as a tale nf their youth, the history
of criminals whom they saw suffer.
	On an eminence, over the farm of Trees, there is a very distinct
encampment; and traces of similar enclosures, by mounds of earth,
are visible in other places, and more particularly near the Castle
of Dunduff. It is common to designate them as Roman Camps;
but they appear of far too inconsiderable dimensions to be con-
nected with the history of that great people, and are far more like-
ly the remains of small forts erected by the Irish, who frequently
overran the country, and many of which, of the very same form
and construction, are still found in Ireland.


