
                       ROSENEATH.                            111

of the lowest members of the carboniferous series, which pervades the
great valley of the Scottish Lowlands, in which no organic remains
have hitherto been found. The line of formation between the
sandstone and primitive rock of the parish runs along the vale or
dingle which stretches from Campsaile on the eastern shore to Port-
kill on the south-west. Although seldom observable on the surface,
it is easily known by the superior fertility of the fields lying on the
sandstone. In the slate formation on the Loch Long shore, as well
as in the quartz, iron pyrites is found in considerable abundance.
In the slate, it is alvays crystallized, and in the quartz it appears
in irregular masses of larger size. The colour of the slate varies
very much, and obviously in proportion to the quantity of oxide of iron
which pervades it. Boulders of granite are frequent on the western
shore, some of them of considerable size.
   Zoology. -There is nothing remarkable in the zoology of the pa-
rish. No animals of any rarity seem to be indigenous. The zoo.
logical ornament of the parish is its herd of roe-bucks. These ele-
gant creatures, although not so numerous as formerly, may still be
seen in little groups, chiefly in their favourite haunts throughout the
woods, or bounding across the open fields. They seem rather mi-
gratory in their habits, which, independent of other causes, accounts
for their diminished numbers. For it is a remarkable fact, that,
although the plantations here afford the beat possible retirements,
and seldom any thing can occur to startle or annoy them, they have
been seen occasionally swimming across Loch Long to the Cowal
mountains, and throughout the Lennox different colonies are spring-
ing up, whose common ancestors browsed in our quiet groves on
this side the Gareloch.
   It is said that at one time the soil of the peninsula was so sove-
reign a repellent of rats, that not one of the race would come near it.
The Greenock skippers, to secure their vessels from such a nuisance,
shipped ballast from the Roseneath shore for any of their longer
voyages; and it seems there is no doubt a sagacious West India plant-
er did veritably export some casks of our earth to Jamaica, in hopes
of killing the rats that were gnawing his sugar canes. The alleged
peculiar sanctity of the spot, may have originated such an impres-
sion of the virtue of the soil of the beautiful isle. The fact of
their being no rats in the parish, would aid the delusion. Now,
indeed, different races of these pestilent vermin, under cover of our ag-
ricultural improvement or from vessels with less sacred ballast touch-
ing our shores, have effected a habitat here as in other districts. Not


