
     of Old Cumnock.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-In the parish lies the village of
Cumnock at the consluence of the stream of Glisnock, and the
water of Luggar It gives the title of baron to the family of
Dumfries.-The great roads from Air to Dumfries, from Air
by Muirkirk to Edinburgh, from Glasgow by Galston, and
Sorn to Dumfries, anti from Glasgow by Kilmarnock to Dum-
fries, pass through this village.  It is distant from Edinburgh
58, from Glasgow 36, from Dumfries 45, from Air 16, and
from Kilmarnock 16 miles.  Besides the advantage of the pub-
lic roads, the parish is greatly benefited by many cross roads,
running in different directions, to the extent of ten or twelve
miles, which the Earl of Dumfries has made at his own pri-
vate expence for the conveniency of his coal, lime, etc. and
while they serve these works they greatly benefit the parish and
country in general*.

<FOOTNOTE>

proportionally small to those acquainted with English labour, or even with that
of the Lothians or Berwickshire.

<FOOTNOTE>

*On the lands of Borland arc the vestiges of a chapel or religious house; and
the farm is, to this day, named chapel-house.  These lands were originally in
family of the name of Hamilton, from whom they passed by marriage into
the Montgomerys, a branch of the Coylsfield family; and having passed
through different purchasers are now the property of the Earl of Dumfries.
   In the vicinity of the village of Cumnock are the remains of a most, where,
as tradition says, the baron courts were held of old.  It is almost entirely
surrounded by the Luggan; and as its banks are sheep and completely wooded.
there, the whole forms a very beautiful and picturesque scenery.  The castle
of Terrenzean lies also in this parish.  It is now in ruins; has stood on an ele-
vated bank above the Luggar, in a beautiful situation; was probably the man-
sion that belonged to the barony of Terrenzean, which successively passed
from a branch of the Crawfords to the Boyds.  Upon their for feature it fell to the
Crown, who having successively male giants of it to different proprietors, it
came at last into the family of Lowdon, from whom it was purchased by the
Earl of Dumfries, whose property is now 1 s.  From his barony, the present
countess of Lowdon is Barroness Terrenzean.


