
               GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                       85


MacFadyen sought refuge after his defeat by Wallace at the pass
of Brander, and where he was dragged out and executed. It is
still pointed out as MacFadyen's Cave, in the face of Craig an
Araidh, as is the stone on which he stood to breathe a little in
the middle of the Awe after his defeat, and from which, after
relieving himself of his armour, and, throwing it into the river, he
plunged into the stream, and, amid showers of darts, he gained
the opposite bank. The stone is still called MacFadyen's, stone,
and as such is pointed out to the stranger.
The parish has not above tbree-fourths of a mile of sea coast
altogether: this is at Bunawe. The character of the shore is sandy.
   Hydrography.--The principal lakes in the parish are Lochawe
and Lochtolla. The latter is situated in the braes of Glenurchy.
It is but a small, yet a lovely sheet of water. It is about four miles
in length, and its average breadth is a mile. On the north side,
at Ardvrecknish, the Marquis of Breadalbane, sole proprietor of
Glenurchy, has a shooting-lodge set down in the centre of his vast
deer-forest of Corichbad. The lodge, with its young thriving
plantations, contrasts beautifully wiLh the pine-wood forest of
Derridarroch on the opposite shore of the lake, and lends, with
its exciting associations of deer, and hounds, and huntsmen, a
high degree of interest to this lone and solitary mountain tarn.
   The parish stretches westward, on both sides of Lochawe, eight
miles. This, beyond controversy, is one of the noblest and love-
liest of Scotland's lakes. Its length is variously estimated. It is
somewhere between twenty-four and thirty miles. Its breadth is
very unequal, expanding in some places and contracting in others.
It may be averaged at a mile, excepting towards its eastern extre-
mity, where its principal charms and attractions lie, and where it
expands into a breadth of three miles. Its depth varies in different
places. It is in some places seventy fathoms deep. It is said to
be very deep along the base of Cruachan, and at the gorge of the
magnificent pass by which its waters effect their escape, and urge
their turbulent and noisy career to Lochetive. This noble sheet of
water is far from being so generally known, admired, and frequent-
ed, as its superior claims would justly authorize to expect. The
upper or eastern end, that which lies in this parish, is decided-
ly, in point of historical interest and scenic beauty, far superior
to the other. Here, peering above the embowering trees, which
have succeeded in veiling it partially from the view, Traocheillein
Castle, at one time the seat and stronghold of the chief of the clan


