
602                       LANARKSHIRE.

April 1820,-a newspaper which, in addition to its general respec-
tability and extensive, circulation, has always been remarkably ac-
curate in its local intelligence. "Wednesday night last, (5th
April 1820,) was the period fixed for a simultaneous attack upon
the city by the Radicals. Cathkin Braes, about five miles south,
was the site chosen for their encampment. The Strathaven di-
vision, between 20 and 30, with such arms as they could seize or
collect, arrived there at the appointed time; but, instead of the
many thousands expected to be encamped, they did not meet with
a single individual to welcome them; and on that wet boisterous
and dreary night, were necessitated to seek refuge in the woods.
The Radicals, at last finding that they bad been imposed upon by
a delegate who had summoned them to the meeting, next day, be-
tween one and two o'clock, left their lonely and comfortless abode,
threw away their arms and dispersed. Some of them went into
a house occupied by a labourer, in which there were none but
women at the time, and requested a few potatoes then boiling,
which they fell upon like as many hungry dogs. Nothing could
exceed their wretched and alarmed appearance.
	"About a dozen of the Strathaven Radicals, who had been at
Cathkin Braes, were, on their return home, apprehended by the
armed tenantry of Strathaven parish, and carried prisoners to Ha-
milton, where they underwent an examination before the Sheriff.
Nearly a dozen of Radicals, armed with pikes and pistols, visited two
public-houses in New Cathcart, about twelve o'clock on Tuesday
night, on a search for arms, but they did not find any. There was
scarcely a village, however small, within twenty miles round, in
which the Radical address was not posted up, and in most of them
there were preparations made to obey the call expected from Glas-
gow."
	I am happy to add to this Account, that though then, as now,
there were what are called " Radical opinions," in the village of
Carmunnock, yet I am not aware of preparations being here at
any period made for deeds of violence.

<TABLE=Population>
          		III.--POPULATION.
	There has been a gradual increase in the population of the pa-
rish, as will be seen by the following statement.

		Population in 1755,	471
		              1796,	570
			      1921,	637
			      1881,	692
	The above is the population of the parish quoad civilia. By


