
850                     LANARKSHIRE.

mount throughout its whole extent, and, lie under the valley of
Elsrickle.  Porphyritic felspar of a very shattered description
abounds onthe north side, in which are found in different places
veins of sulphate of barytes.  On the acclivity, and at the
foot of the mount on the same side, sandstone lies over the trap.
On the south of the ridge, the felspar becomes more compact,
and passes into clinkstone.  At Harecairns, towards the west end
of the parish, on the slope of the ridge, a dike of greenstone is
found running north-west by south-east, and appears in two or
three places above the surface in globular concretions.  At this place,
also, strata of white sandstone and limestone crop out.  White
sandstone is also found near the church, on removing a few feet
of surface; and at a similar depth, at several places along the
acclivity; and it dips at inclinations varying with those of the hill.
On the same side of the ridge, on the farm of Borland, red sand-
stone is wrought for building.  The lime at Harecairns was oc-
casionally quarried and burnt by the neighbouring farmers till
the year 1816, when they found it more profitable to bring burnt
lime from Carnwath moor, than to cart coals from that locality, and
burn the lime which was found at Harecairns.  Coal has not been
found in the parish, though in all probability it lies in the vale of
Medwin; but from the inclination of the strata it must be very
deep.  Beautiful agates have been found imbedded in the trap
on the south side of the hill, and also in the alluvial soil in diffe-
rent parts of the parish.  In the vale of.Medwin the alluvial de-
posit is of great depth, consisting of sandy loam and patches of
Moss.  There are about thirty acres of flow or unconsolidated
moss.  In the valley of Elsrickle, or Howburn, the deposit is of
a similar kind, but more adhesive, from a greater admixture of
clay.  In the mosses, large trunks of trees have been met with;
some of them in such a state of preservation as to be used by the
carpenter.
   Soil.-The soil is very various, but for the greater part suitable
for turnip husbandry.  In the valleys, it is either a brownish loam,
containing moss, or of a sandy character.  On the sloping sides of
the hill, it is more adhesive, free of stones and gravel, and in some
places of a quality equal to the best in lower situations.  The
mean height, of the arable and above the level of the sea is about
800 feet, and its average mean temperature 45&deg; Fahrenheit.
   There are no mines in the parish; but it is, highly probable
that two caves on the Borland farm, in the vicinity of Walston
Well, (one of which is about 40 feet long, 3 feet wide, and 5


