
          162                         PERTHSHIRE.

          and the Englirh coal, from the coal-fields in the neighbourhood
          of Newcastle.
                              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
             The improvements that have been effected in this parish since
          the publication of the former Statistical Account are numerous
          and varied.  The extensive pleasure grounds and gardens, both at
          Lynedoch House and Methven Castle, with their beautiful ap-
          proaches and enlarged accommodation, deserve to be mentioned,
          and the sylvan scenery, which decorates not only these mansions,
          but extends all over the parish, forms a delightful contrast to the
          bleak and cheerless aspect which it formerly exhibited.  In the
          year 1793, there were only three slated farm-houses in the parish,
          with as many enclosed farms.  Now, every farm is enclosed, with
          the exception of a few pendicles on moor-land,-the farms are all
          subdivided, and have substantial slated houses, with corresponding
          offices. Agriculture is certainly in a high state of improvement
          in this parish.  Much has been done by Robert Smythe, Esq. of
          Methven, to aid the industry of his tenants, by blasting and re-
          moving stones, and by draining, all of which drains Mr Smythe
          opens at his own expense, and the tenants perform the rest of the
          labour.  Subsoil ploughing has been introduced, and is likely soon
          to become general.  The bridge now building over the Almond,
          at Dalcrue, near Lynedoch, will, when finished, be an object of ge-
          neral attraction, both for elegance of design and workmanship, and
          for its singularly romantic situation.
             April 1837.

                             	PARISH OF REDGORTON.

               	  PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                         THE REV.  WILLIAM LISTON, MINISTER.

                         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
             Name.-THE name of this parish has been variously written
          Redgorton, Regorton, and Rogorton.  The two latter spellings
          are evidently corruptions of the first.  But the most ancient or-
          thography is Rochgorton, as appears by a charter by King David
          II. preserved in the chartulary of Scone, in which his Majesty con-
          veys the church of Rochgorton to the abbacy of Scone.  Rock or
          Ruach in Gaelic, signifies red, and Gorton or Garton signifies a


