
442                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

tic, and mathematics; which is supported by school-fees, aided for
a time by subscriptions from individuals, and one from the town.
In this school, the fees are, for Engisb, writing, &c. 10s. 6d.; and
for Latin, Greek, &c. 15s. per quarter. There is another for si-
milar branches, on private adventure, in which the fees are 10s. 6d.
per quarter in all cases. The fees in the boarding and day schools
for girls, which comprehend a great variety of branches of female
education, it would be tedious to detail.  In all the other English
schools, they are from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per quarter for English, and
3s. to 3s. 6d. for writing.  In the infant school, religious and mo-
ral training is the principal object, along with which a foundation
is laid for education in reading, &c.  The number of children and
young persons attending all these schools may be from 950 to
1000.  There are some children of different ages who can neither
read nor write; but their number, to the best of my knowledge, is
small.  I have met with a very few grown up persons who could
neither read nor write.  One of them, a female, at present a ser-
vant in the town, in her childhood resided in a remote part of the
parish of St Ninian's, four or five miles from the nearest school;
and had to take Charge of the younger children, and otherwise as-
sist her mother in domestic matters, when she ought to have been
receiving her education.  The younger children, when they ar-
rived at the proper age, were sent to school; but she, being of
more use at home than they, never could obtain this privi-
lege.  In the other cases, there miaght be similar hindrances.
Education, such as it is, is almost universally diffused throughout
even the poorest classes of the community.  The kirk-session,
Allan's and Cunninghame's Mortifications, a small fund left by
Mrs Turner, widow of a minister of Stirling, the two Ladies' So-
cieties, which support the infant and girls' schools, and the occa-
sional benevolence of private individuals, greatly contribute to this
result.  The education received, however, is, in the case of the
poorer classes of children, to a great extent defective; and the
source of much less subsequent Advantage in improving the mind,
and cultivating moral and religious principles, than it might be,
were they in circumstances to remain longer at school, and were
the schools, at which many of them receive their education, so en-
dowed as to secure the employment of teachers of a higher grade
of attainments, not only in respect of literary and other knowledge,
but also in the art of communicating instruction to the young.
No part of the parish can be said to be so distant from any school


