
182                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

Greendykes, East and West Adniston. The Honourable John
Henry Glassel Campbell possesses the lands of Longniddry, con-
sisting of one large farm and several smaller pieces let to the in-
habitants of the village; he is a minor. Robert Ainslie of Red-
coll, having lately purchased Elvingston and Trabroun, now posses-
ses those lands, together with what be formerly possessed. The
Honourable Miss Murray possesses Laverocklaw. John Ainslie,
younger brother of Robert, has the lands of Merryliatton, which
are part of the estate of Huntington. Lord Ruthven, in right of his
Lady, possesses the lands of Hodges, and is by far the smallest
proprietor in the parish. Only one heritor is resident in the pa-
rish,-Ainslie of Redcoll.
   Eminent Men.-In the former Statistical Account of Glads-
muir, it is stated that George Heriot, founder of the hospital in
Edinburgh which bears his name, was a native of this parish. It
appears, however, from an account of his life published in the
Scots Magazine in 1802, and from an account afterwards publish-
ed in 1822, that his father, who was a goldsmith of great respec-
tability, was born at Trabroun, in the parish of Gladsmuir, but
that George was born in Edinburgh, June 1563, brought up to
the same trade with his father, and held the lucrative appointment
of jeweller to the King and Queen. On the accession of James
to the English throne in 1603, he went to London and continued
there till his death, February 1624. The Heriots of Trabroun
were a family of some antiquity in East Lothian.
   Dr Robertson, Principal of the University of Edinburgh, began
his ministry in this parish. He succeeded his uncle, Andrew Ro-
bertson, and was ordained 17th April 1744, before (it is said) a
very numerous congregation. He was presented by the Earl of
Hopetoun, who singled him out as a young man of great promise.
He lived for some years in the old manse, where be composed the
greater part of the History of Scotland. He afterwards came to
the present manse, where he continued till his removal to Edin-
burgh. At Gladsmuir, in the retirement of the country, he laid
the foundation of that high eminence which he afterwards attained
as an historian, as well as in conducting the affairs of the church,
being for many years looked up to as the leader in the General
Assembly. From Gladsmuir he was translated to Edinburgh, as
colleague to Dr Erskine, in the church of the Old Grayfriars,
with whom be continued to live in habits of the most friendly in-
tercourse till his death.


