
     of Birse.

the acre; in general 10 s. and indeed some of it dear e-
nough in its present state of 2 s. but capable of improve-
ment.  The highest rent paid by one tenant is about L. 60.
The current rents of the possessions are from L. 10 to L. 20,
and some as low as from L. 3 to L. 5*.
   Besides grain, the parish produces a deal of wood which
it exports.  Numbers of black cattle and sheep are an-
nually sold, and taken from our hills and put upon rich
pasture; they turn out to great account.  Black cattle fetch
from L. 2 to L. 7.  Sheep are worth from L. 4 to L. 12 the
score, some few sell at 14 s. each.  Horses are worth from
L. 5 to L. 15; and some few from L. 15 to L. 25.  Some
of them also are reared in the parish.  It is famous also for
producing honey of great richness and flavour.  In a fa-
vourable year a good deal is exported.  Two men in the
Six 1 owns exported 100 pints each, in summer and autumn
1791.  The pint consists of 5 lbs.  Amsterdam, and sells
from 2 s. 6 d. to 4 s. 2 d.  A little butter and cheese is also
exported.  In several gardens in the parish, there is a
good number of fruit trees bearing fruit.  The crop of
apples on one tree in the garden of Midstrath sold once for
a guinea.  The garden of Finzean being fenced both by
     VOL. IX. P

<FOOTNOTE>

*All the tenants plough their grounds, some with horses, some with
even, and some with horses and black-cattle united, and all harnessed af-
ter the manner of horses  By many the old Scots plough is still used, and
answers best in rough stony ground.  The better sort, and the active te-
nant, who has improved his farm a little, have procured ploughs of the new
form.  Seed time begins about the middle of March, harvest about the
first of September.  Indeed, for several years past, both have been much
later, owing to the cold and uncommonly rainy seasons.  On the estate of
Ballogie, Mr Forbes, the late proprietor, found, and used as a manure, a
kind of marl, with some effect.  The death of the heritor prevented the
working of it for any time.  The present proprietor intends to try it a-
gain.  There is of it, of a reddish, bluish, and whitish colour.  How it
will turn out, time only will evince.


