
     Of Chirnside.

were then known, or accounted, in the least degree, pro-
fitable*.

   Religion and Morals of the People.-The people, in ge-
neral, are in religion sincere, and as little addicted to su-
perstition, or enthusiasm, as in any country parish.  Even
so far as the nominal religious divisions obtain among
them, they operate not to rancour, or any observable de-
pravation of the Christian temper and spirit.  Although
Antiburghers and Burghers, to a certain number, have
been known among them, almost even since the origin of
Secession, and a Cameronian meeting-house has been late-
ly erected in the middle of the village, the bulk of the
people continue attached to the Established Church.  The
individuals of families, that follow these sectaries, are con-
siderable in number; but whole families of them are very 
few.  Among the former, especially of the Burgher, or of the
Relief classes, there are several who frequent those congre-

     VOL. XIV. F

<FOOTNOTE>

*Of this, the eggman of the village afforded a remarkable example.
Not contented with being, what some of his fraternity were, in other
places, the first merchant in small wares, he formed the scheme of carry-
ing on his particular trade in a superior manner.  Well known in the coun-\
try, and having credit at Berwick and Dunse, he took from Mr. Hall 2 or
3 acres of land.  He purchased 2 of the stoutest horses he could find; and
taking his travels 20 miles up the country into Lauderdale and Gala
Water, and paying for his eggs as he went along, he engaged such a num-
ber of customers in the line of his march, as furnished a complete load of
them in his four large creels.  Piled up nicely, they generally amounted
from 1600 to 1800, and frequently exceeded that number.  His market
was Berwick, were the staple commodity for export to London, being
egg and salmon, his payment was sure and ready, for an article reckoned
to make the annual return of above 6000 l. to the merchants; while that
of the other was estimated at 8000 l. or 9000 l.  To the benefit of this
place, and that of his many customers, who kept by him, he presided in
the trade for more than 20 years, and got to himself considerable gain.


