
               URQHART AND GLENMORISTON.                  39

down along a rocky, channel at the base of one of the grandest
frontlets of rock in the Highlands, nearly 1500 feet high, empties
itself into Loch Ness within three miles of Invermoriston.  This
burn constitutes the boundary between Urquhart and Glenmoris-
ton; and, besides the magnificent rocky and woodland scenery with
which its course is lined, it is farther worthy of notice as display-
ing near its mouth an unusually beautiful waterfall, and another
equally fine one about two miles farther up, shaded with foliage
of the richest dye. On the summit of the hill to the West of the
btrn, there is a rocking-stone, which two persons can move, about
twenty feet in circumference.
   This burn's parent lake is also supposed occasionally when swol-
len to send off a streamlet towards the north; or,at least, the hol-
low or rather deep ravine which collects the infant waters of the
Coiltie, which flows along the southern margin of the vale of Ur-
quhart, begins very near the northern extremity of this loch.
   The Coiltie, from the elevation of its springs, is a most rapid
and sometimes dangerous rivulet, which carries down enormous
masses of stone that choke up its channel, and cause it to overflow
its banks, and destroy, not only the corn-land, but sometimes also
houses and bridges.
   A tributary of this water, called the Divach, amid beautiful and
dense groves of birch, displays a waterfall as high and picturesque
as that of Foyers; and near the source of the Ennerie river, which
flows from Corrymony into the still basin of Loch Meikly, another
smaller, though highly picturesque cascade, called the Fall of Mo-
ral, is to be seen. Near it, is a cave capable of receiving sixteen
or twenty persons, in which several of the principal gentlemen of
the district for a time concealed themselves from the Hanoverian
soldiers after the Rebellion of 1745. The Falls of Divach are sel-
dom supplied with a sufficiency of water to give them that decided
grandeur which they possess when the rivers are in spead as their
swollen state is significantly called; but then the mountains sides are
everywhere streaked round with foaming, cataracts which disappear
on the return of fair weather. The burn which falls from Abe-
riachan on the confines of the parish of Inverness, displays a suc-
cession of beautiful perpendicular falls and running cataracts; and
that of Aultguish, (or the Fir-tree burn,) in the forest of Ruisky,
eastward of Aultsigh, presents a continuous cataract. which, from
the lake below, looks like, a long white ribbon streaking the moun-


