
                                     ALYTH.                          1111

       regular square of nearly four miles a-side.  The norther district
       may be again subdivided into three parts; 1. a tract of cultivated
       ground immediately behind the hills; 2. the forest of Alyth, an
       extensive tract of moor and moss, separating the lowland from the
       Highland part of the parish; and, 3. the Blacklunans, a small
       fertile district lying along the side of the Blackwater.  The dis-
       trict of Blacklunans belongs to the county of Forfar.
         Elevation and Climate.--The elevation of the parish, from the
       banks of the Isla on the south to the summit of Mount Blair at
       the northern extremity, ranges from about 130 to about 1600 or
       1700 feet.  Mount Blair, the most considerable eminence in this
       neighbourbood, belongs partly to this parish and partly to Glen-
       isla, the line of march running across the summit.  The hill of
       Kingsdat, 1178 feet above the level of the sea, is picturesquely
       situated on the side of the Ericht, about three miles south from
       Mount Blair.  The elevation of Barryhill was calculated by the
       late Principal Playfair at 668 feet; and the hills of Alyth and
       Loyall are somevhat higher.  The climate is bracing and salu-
       brious; and there is no distemper to which the inhabitants are
       subject in a lore than ordinary degree.   Fevers and other infec-
       tious diseases are comparatively rare.   The whole of this district
       is a good deal exposed to easterly winds, particularly in the spring
       months, but in this parish the north-west wind is, on the whole,
       the most prevalent; so much so, that trees in unsheltered situa-
       tions frequently receive a permanent bend to the south east.
         Rivers and Streams.-This parish, as has been already stated,
       is bounded in part by the Isla and Ericht; and it is also traversed
       by several minor streams.  The most considerable of these is the
       burn of Alyth, which rises in the mosses of the forest, and falls
       into the Isla at Inverquiech, about two miles east from the village.
         Geology.--With regard to its geological formation, the parish
       is divided into three districts, which are chiefly occupied, respec-
       tively, by the crystalline slates, trap, and the old red sandstone.
       The first of these comprehends the Blacklunans and the forest of
       Alyth.  Towards Mount Blair, the rocks exhibit the character of
       mica-slate, and, in the southern part of the forest, that of blay-
       slate, the intermediate space presenting the usual gradations,
       interspersed with quartz, hornblende slate, and other ana-
       logous specier.  Beds of limestone although generally of rare
       occurrence in the Grampians, are frequent at Mount Blair, and
       farther down on the site of the Blackwater.


