
     Statistical Account

on the S. and S. W. glides along the skirts of this parish
for nearly two miles.  Salmon, trout, and eel, are found in
it, but none of them remarkable either for quantity or
quality.  There might be a cotton mill erected at Miln-
ton in our bounds, where there is at present an excellent
corn and barley mill; sufficient water for both may at all
times be here found.  On the N. and N. W. a burn se-
parates us from Dreghorn*.

   Surface, etc.-The surface consists of large flat fields,
with many gentle risings and declivities interspersed.
The summits of these are covered with trees, planted in
circles, which, with others of the same kind, spread all o-
ver Cunninghame, give a beautiful appearance to the
whole of this country, as well as profit to the owners, by
affording timber for houses.  The prospect from these
summits, which are in every farm, is extensive and de-
lightful; for many miles all round, the whole country ap-
pears as one well cultivated garden.  Towns, villages, and
gentlemen's houses, meet the eye on every quarter.  The
hills of Arran, and the frith of Clyde, terminate our view
on the W. the hills of Kilbirny on the N. the high
grounds of Fenwick and Galston on the E. and S. E. and
some hills on the borders of Dumfries-shire and Galloway,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Its name is Gawreer, and may be thus derived.  Gaw is that flat
or opening made by a plough or spade in the side of a pond, loch, or stag-
nated water, by which it is drained off; reer may be a corruption of
ruigh or righ, which, in Gaelic, signifies "to run or move quickly"
In the sense given of there words, they can be applied, with propriety, as
descriptive of the peculiarities which distinguish this stream.  It is drawn
from a loch in the parish of Stewarton, by a gaw, in which it runs at
some distance, and then seeks a course for itself.  Greer, or rather
Gawrigh, expresses the idea of a water-coarse, not made by the natural
exertions of that element, but by the accidental application of it to some
purposes of art.


