
     Statistical Account

all in one mass, occasioned by the action of some mineral, it
is difficult to determine.  The rock above Callander is wholly
composed of this cemented stone.  The vein of it is of no great
breadth, but extends in the direction of S. W. and N. E., to
the distance of many miles, through lakes, and rivers, and
mountains, and valleys.  The pebbles, which are inclosed in
the cement, do not seem to have undergone the action of fire,
but of friction.  They are of different colours; some white,
some blue, and some gray, and mostly of the roundness of field
or water stones.  The cement itself has the most calcined ap-
pearance, being all of one colour, and uniformly brown.  This
rock does not stand in columns, in the form of basaltic pillars.
The cutters are sometimes horizontal, sometimes dipping, and
sometimes perpendicular.  The strata are not in the form of
prisms:  They lie in prodigious flags, of different degrees
of thickness:  And the highest mountains, on both sides of
this vein, are not composed of this kind of stone.
   The virtuosi*, who are connoisseurs in fossils, may make
of these appearances what they will; but to a plain man, who

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is strange what whims, under the plausible name of THEORIES, will
enter into the brains of Philosophers.  Some will choose to be ridiculous rather
than think like other men, or relinquish the distinction of singularity.  Some
will have every thing to be the effect of water; and others, every thing the
effect of fire, as they happen to have a predilection for either of there ele-
ments.
   It is to be hoped, the next theory will ascribe every thing to the power of
air, and that we shall arrive at common sense at last.  That great naturalist,
the celebrated BUFFON, could, by the magic of his submarine currents, make
continents and islands emerge from the deep, like so many ducks popping up
their heads.  Others, since his time, fearing that the world should wear the
marks of old age, send Vulcan on many a long subterraneous journey, that he
may blow up his forge wherever gray hairs appear on the face of the earth, to
singe the hoary beard of nature, and to cover the chin afresh with the down of
youth.


