
                    SANDWICK.						57

bones, similar to those in the first. The third was at the south
side, close by the west corner of the second, and was very simple,
being merely a cavity in the earth, covered by a stone on which
we were treading, and being so low, without any upright flags
about it, it escaped observation till we were about to leave the tu-
mulus. It contained pieces of bone of a larger size than the for-
mer two, and a few pieces of a vitrified substance, like a parcel of
peas, with a vesicular internal structure, and of a whitish appear-
ance, as if it were vitrified bone. The other three resembled the
more common graves that are generally found in the lesser tumu-
li, differing from each other in size and structure, but all more or
less filled with ashes, of a reddish colour, apparently of peat, in-
terspersed with very small bits of bone.
    All of these graves lay with one end north north-east, except
the sixth, which was directed north-east. This resemblance be-
tween the fourth and first is worthy of notice, that it also consist-
ed of a double row of flags on all sides except the south, next to
the fifth, where it was single.
  I do not think that it would be either interesting or useful to
describe minutely the graves in all the tumuli that I have seen
opened during the last year, or beard of being opened previously ;
for though they vary a little in size, shape, and direction, there is
a strong similarity between them, the largest being 2 feet 9 inches
by 2 feet, and the smallest 1 foot 2 inches by 10 1/2 inches ; and
the direction of those that I have bad an opportunity of observing,
viries only two points of the compass from ,north by east, to' north-
east by north, and they all contained peat ashes mixed with bits
of bone.I leave it to those more competent to the task, to specu-
late onthese facts. One thing, however, seems evident  that these
tulmuli are the burying-places of a people who burned their dead,
and it seems probable that the rich were buried in the larger and
more costly tumuli, and that their bodies were burnt in such a way
as to prdvent their remains from being mingled with peat ashes :
and the bits of charcoal found in one of the graves seem to indi-
cate that this was used as the fuel, at least on some occasions,"

<FOOTNOTE>The fourth grave lay on the east side of the first, with a space-of three feet between;
internally it was 2 feet 10 inches long, by 2 feet 3 inches broad, the inner
row 6 inches below the level of the outer; 9 inches below that, was a small cover-
stone, and ai the bottom, 6 inches of peat ashes, with bits of bone. The fifth lay two
feet south of the last, and was about 3 fee 5 inches, by 2 feet 3 inches. It was form
ed by a single row-of flags without any cover. On the top was 6 inches of clay, and
below that, about 9 inches of ashes and bone. The sixth lay three feet from the north-
west corner of the first, and was the rudest of all. It measured 2 feet by 1 foot 2 inches.


