
       			SANQUHAR.                           303

The veins or mineral depositories hitherto wrought, as has been
mentioned, are five in number, viz. Old Glencrieff, New Glen-
crieff, Belton-grain, Margaret's and Cove. They lie parallel, and
distant from each other about 120 fathoms. Belton-grain, which
lies nearest the east, is about 300 fathoms from Cove. They have
been wrought to the depth of 60, 75, 93, and 136 fathoms from
the surface. The tops of the veins lie generally to the west, and
they slope or hade eastward at an angle from thirty to forty-five de-
grees from the horizon. According to the language of the miners
they hade one fathom in three or sometimes in two; by which is
meant that they make one fathom in horizontal length, to three or
two in height. They do not generally run straight forward, but
in a winding direction. From this cause, none of the drifts are
straight lines, but vary in working southward, from five to fifteen de-
grees, east to south of fifteen degrees west of south. In all the
workings the medium point is found to be almost south and north,
so that the veins cannot be said to vary much in their course. The
rocks which they traverse lie in beds at the same angle with them-
selves. These are the indurated argillaceous mountain rock, or what
miners call the gray and blue whinstone. The veins are from a
few inches to 4 feet in width. The bearing and the barren parts
are very various in their length. The former are found from one
or two to 70 or 80 fathoms, as in Belton-grain. The latter are
sometimes more and sometimes less extensive, and when they do
occur are called checks by the miners. The length and depth of
the bearing parts always maintain a proportion to each other. The
length, however, is generally something more considerable than
the depth. None of the veins have been found to contain much
ore beyond the depth of 100 or 120 fathoms. They generally
contract in their extremities, and diminish in their course toward
the bottom.  Clay beds are found occasionally to interrupt them.
The course of Belton-grain vein may be traced on the surface,
by the ground being somewhat slackened or hollowed. Nothing
similar or peculiar in any way is perceivable on the surface of the
ground over any of the other veins.
	The structure of the veins is very various. The ore frequently
lies in a regular form, but sometimes it is irregular, and mixed with
what are called vein stones, as lamellar heavy spar, calcspar, rock-
cork,&c. The ores are,lead glance,blende,manganese ochre,cop-
per pyrites, green lead-ore, white lead-ore, lead-vitriol and brown
hematite, all in small quantities except the lead-ore. The con-


