
                        ABBOTSHALL.                            157

legs, and beautiful symmetry. The pure Fife breed, however, is
seldom met with, and the cattle reared in this parish are for the
most part a mixture of the Fife and Angus or Ayrshire. The
amount of bestial at present in the parish is as follows: horses of
all ages, 114; milch cows, 104; black cattle, 203; calves, 30;
pigs, 81.
  Manufactures.-The staple manufacture of this place is that of
bed-ticks; to which, of late years, has been added a species of coarse
half-white linen called Dowlas, both for home and export trade.
Linen checks for foreign consumpt have fallen into decay, from
the greater cheapness of a similar fabric now made from cotton in
other places. There is one manufactory for sail-canvas; one bleach-
field for whitening and preparing linen yarns,-a branch of trade that
has of late years entirely superseded the use of hand-wheels, which
were formerly so common in this and all other districts of Fifeshire,
and which gave employment both to the older and younger members of
families. The introduction of machinery into this branch of manu-
facture has not only materially increased the quantity, but has con-
siderably diminished the expence of labour, it being produced at
about two-thirds less than when spun by the hand, labour. There
is one factory, worked by a steam engine, for weaving a thin sheet-
ing from linen yarn. It is considered to be well conducted, and is
the only one of the kind in the county. The low rate of weaving
by the hand is probably the cause why this branch of enterprise
has not been more generally adopted. A brick and tyle-work of
considerable extent has been very long established in this parish.
At the same place, a pottery for making brown earthen-ware is car-
ried on. A coal gas-work, for the purpose of supplying the town
of Kirkaldy, Linktown of Abbotshall, &c. with gas, was erected in
this parish, about two years ago. The quality of gas is considered
good, and the quantity used throughout the year may average 5000
feet each night. The work is capable of affording a much greater
supply; but as yet gas has not been introduced as a general light for
dwelling-houges,-being principally used for the lighting up of
streets, public works, and shops. There are a variety of mills which
go by water, and are employed for making flour, barley meal, &c. At
one of these, not less than from 10,000 to 15,000 bolls annually are
made. There is also one mill which goes by water for grinding flint,
and belongs to the same gentleman that has the pottery. Brew-
ing was formerly carried on to some extent, but now there are on-
ly two breweries in the parish, which manufacture nothing strong.


