
384                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

propitiation for his own soul, the souls of his wife and children, and
all his predecessors, and all his successors. (Charter 220.)
   The people of Pettie were engaged in the battle of Clachna-
herry, (see Sir R. Gordon or Brown's History of the Highlands,
Vol. i. p. 151,) for the Moyhall manuscript states, that the fiery
cross was sent by Mackintosh to Pettie, calling out the people to
the pursuit of Munro of Fowlis.
   In 1368, the Moyhall manuscript makes William, the seventh
Laird of Mackintosh, to have his residence in Connage, Pettie.
   From 1314, when the Crown lands in Moray were erected into
an earldom by King Robert Bruce, and bestowed nn his nephew,
Randolph, Pettie seems to have always formed part of the lands
belonging to the Comitatus or Earldom of Moray.
   In 1455, (Shaw, Part II.) the lands of the earldom were an-
nexed to the Crown; and some time after the Laird of Findlater
held the barony of Pettie of the Crown, and afterwards of the
Earl of Moray.
   In 1495, the Moyhall manuscript states, that the Earl of Hunt-
ly kept possession of Connage, sixteen years, till King James V.
was born; at which time the feu of Petyn was given by King
James IV. to Sir William Ogilvie of Banff, because his wife,
called Nannie Pant, an English woman, was the first advertiser
of the birth of his son, James V. Sir William, shortly there-
after, begged the Castle of Petyn, and dwelt therein till the Clan
Chattan, under the conduct of Dougal Mor M'Ghille Challum,
besieged and burnt it, and slew a son of Sir William's, and eight-
een men, whom they found there. Upon this the said Dougal
put himself in possession of Connage, and chased John Ogilvy,
possessor thereof, and brother of Sir William, with his wife and
children, out of the country, and crushed the same for some five
or six years till himself and his two sons, Farquhar and Duncan
Roy, were slain in the castle of Inverness. In a manuscript his-
tory of the Roses of Kilravock, in possession of Dr Rose of In-
verness, Hugh Rose of Kilravock, who is balled a grandchild of the
Mackintosh, is said to have aided in this destruction of Hallhill
Castle, which is stated to have happened in or about 1513 * The

<FOOTNOTE>In the Charter-room of Kilravock is preserved a charge upon a decree of Council
against " Lauchlane M'Kintoshe of Dunachtane; Donle More M'Ginecallum; Fer-
guhard his sone ; Robert Stewart of Clavalge, Huchoun Ross of Kilravock ; Henry
Dolace of Contray; Walter Ross of Kinstary, and Donald Glasche M'Kintosche,"
for the masterful destruction and downcasting of the " House of Petty, called Hal-
hill," pertaining to " Umqubile Williams Ogilvy of Stratherne, Kny1., and now to
John Ogilvy, his son and are." It narrates minutely the goods pulzied by the Mac-


