
                             PENICUIK.                             47

under instruction varies; but On an average it way be stated7as high
as 340 or thereabouts, or about one-seventh of the whole popula-
tion. The parochial school alone can be said to be endowed, though
two or three others are assisted by the heritors, &e. The parish
teacher draws the maximum of salary, but does not, from the infir-
mities of age, act as schoolmaster. The office is filled by an assist-
ant, who's wholly dependent on fees. Little beyond the common
branches of reading, writing, and arithmetic, it in demand or ac-
tually communicated. The usual fees for these branches may
amount to L.45 or L.50 per annum. His other emoluments may
amount to L.6 per annum. I am not aware of any persons betwixt
five and fifteen years of age who are not capable of reading, and of
very few who cannot write, at least at the last mentioned age. In
general, the people have been, and are quite alive to the benefits of
education, as the number of schools testifies; and an additional one
will be opened in a month or two, making in all 9 schools, or one
to every 255 inhabitants; nor is any of these so far removed from
parishioners, as to prevent their sending their children.
   Literature.-There is one Subscription Library, containing up-
wards of 1200 volumes, to which 50 subscribers belong; another,
in connexion with the Secession meeting-house at How gate is set
up, and another is contemplated in connexion with the church.
   Friendly Socidies.-There were lately four Friendly Societies
in the parish, but the oldest of them has been given up. The
next in order is not in a flourishing way; but the latest, which was
established nearly forty years since, has now a capital of upwards
of L. 1200. It may be questioned, however, if an of them has
produced beneficial effects. Their annual parades are sometimes
attended with not a little riot and intemperance.
   Saving Banks.-A Savings Bank was -stablished some years
ago. In 1835, the contributors amounted to 60, and the stock
to little short of L. 900. From L. 10 to L. 20 way be deposited
monthly -sometimes more, but generally less than this is drawn
out. It has increased in its transactions, for in the year 1821 the
deposits were only L.250. The manufacturing class deposit
the greatest amount, and the effects on their habits are very be-
neficial.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are at present about 40 pau-
pers on the roll, who receive from 5s. to 8s. per month. There
were lately no fewer than four lunatic paupers, but one only now
remains. The funds for the support of the paupers are raised


