
80                              BUTESHIRE.

about L. 10.  The stipend amounts to about L. 158, and the
teinds are exhausted.  There are no chapels in the parish in con-
nexion with the Establishment, and only one Dissenting meeting-
house, which is connected with the Baptist persuasion.  Their
preacher receives a stipend of L. 20.  All the Dissenters in the
parish, including those of the Secession, Relief, Independent,
and Baptist persuasion, amount only to 26.  The rest of the po-
pulation attend the parish church with considerable regularity.
The number of communicants at the parish church is 300.  There
is a religious society in the parish, in connection with the Esta-
blished Church, the contributions of which may average about
L. 25.  Besides this, there may be about L. 10 more collected by
the Established Church for particular purposes.  The Dissenters
have also a Bible and Missionary Society, the contributions to
which may amount to about L. 6, part of which is collected from
members of the EstablishmenL
   Education.--There is only one parish school, where the follow-
ing branches are taught, viz. English, writing, arithmetic, and
book-keeping, Latin, mensuration, and navigation.  The teacher
has all the legal accommodations.  The salary is the medium, L. 30.
The average number attending is 68.  The fees for the common
branches of education are 10s. per year for each child.  There is
also a private school, but no endowment, where English, writing,
and arithmetic are taught.  Fees, the same as above; average
number attending 56.  There is also a small kept by a fe-
male, where only reading is taught; terms the same as above
average number attending 25, making in all 149, i. e. little more than
one in eight of the population; a proof that education is not over-
valued in the parish.  In all these, the Scriptures are publicly read,
and the catechism of the church taught.  Besides these, there are
two Sabbath schools conducted by members of the church, to
each of which a small library is attached; there is one also by the
Dissenters, in all of which the principles of religion are taught.
   Literature.--There is a parish library, containing a considerable
number of religious, historical, and scientific books, and which is
managed by the subscribers.
   Charitable and other Institutions.--There is one such society
in the place which is called the Friendly Society.  The members
pay is at entry.  They collect according to their necessities, 6d.
from each member, and when that has been expended, they collect
again.  Their reduced members receive 2s. 6d. per week, when
			  4


