
                           FALKIRK.                             7

Graham's Muir, on the north of the town, each. grave being cover-
ed with a flat stone, and the whole were enclosed with a stone-
wall. The relies were removed, about fifty years ago, by the their
occupier of the field. After the fatal battle of Dunbar, Crom-
well marched to the Torwood in this neiglibourhood, in pursuit of
the army of Charles 11. On his way he stormed and took posses-
sion of Callendar House, where the King bad a garrison. The
slaughter was great, and on removal of the old gates by the
late proprietor, numbers of human bones were dug out, probably
the remains of those who had fallen at the siege. The republican
troops were guilty of many excesses,-plundering the houser, and
turning the churches into stables for their horses. The church
of Falkirk shared the general devastation. " September 23d,
1655, Ordains those whose seats were broken down. in the kirk in
the tyme of the troubles, should com and own thaim, and repair
thaim, otherways the session will dispone upon them." This, and
similar notices to be found in the parish records, illustrates the
manners of the times and the effects of war.
  Alexander, second Earl of Callendar, was a zealous Covenanter,
and a copy of the Solemn League is still preserved in Falkirk,
bearing his signature, with that of many others. On two different
occasions, the troops of Government took possession of his house;
but, in the last of these, in 1678, a mob from Falkirk put the in-
truders to flight. 'I'lic other branrh of the Livingstone family ad-
hered to the Royal cause, and members of it were engaged at the
battle of Bothwell Bridge, and otherwise against the Covenanters.
   The events connected With the chivalrous attempt of Prince
Charles Edward to regain the throne of his ancestors, next made
this parish conspicuous in history. On 17th January 1746, a battle
was fought on the moor about a mile south-west from the town
on ground now traversed by the Union Canal and the Edinburgh
and Glasgow Railway. The parties were the Highlanders under
the Prince, and the Royal forces commanded by General Hawley.
Both armies were well matched in point of numbers, each con.-
sisting of about 8000 men, and the day terminated in the total
defeat of the Government troops, with 280 killed and wounded.
The irregular nature of the ground and other cause. led to the
discomfiture of Hawley; but after the battle of Falkirk, Charles's

<FOOTNOTE>The writer has been indebted for several of the foregoing statements to the
of the Falkirk Magazine,--a publication which issued from the local press in 1827
but was discontinued after reaching the seventh number.


