
     Statistical Account

and red cabbage, greens, etc. are planted in yards*.  The 
state of this parish in the years 1782 abd 1783, was in ge-
neral better then that of any other around it.  Notwith-
standing the great number of fishers, had there been no grain 
sold to pay the rents, this parish could have supplied the 
parishioners with bread.  The bear was good, and the oat-
meal whiter and stronger, as well as more plentiful, than in 
almost any other parish in the country.  All kinds of vege-
tables, common in the north of Scotland, thrive exceeding-
ly well here; but ther is not a tree in the whole parish, 
except a few around the house of Captain Gordon of Pit-
lurg, called Gordon Lodge, on his estate of Leask. There 
few are of a pretty considerable size.  This gentleman is 
every year making small plantations that seem to thrive 
perfectly well; but the want of waste or barren ground in 
this parish will never allow great plantations in it. 

   Manure.-There is a great deal of marl of different
kinds in this parish, some of which is very rich, and pro-
duces excellent crops; limestones are always found amongst
it, which, when gathered and burned, produce very fine 
lime. A ridge of irregular hillocks rund across the parish,
which consist of large land, or rather gravel, mixed with 
smooth round limestones, many of them little larger than 
a man's hand, and none of them larger than one man can 
easily lift. Upon breaking there stones, many of them prove 
their being of marine susbstances, whole muscles and other 

<FOOTNOTE>

*Beans and peace are generally, sown about the beginning of March, 
oats from the beginning of March to the middle of latter end of April; 
some early oats are now used and turn out well. Barley with grass feeds, 
from the middle of April to the middle May; turnips in June; 
potatoes and cabbage are planted in March and April; greens of dif-
ferent kinds in April and the middle of July, Harvest generally begins 
in the latter end of August. 


