
                           STIRLING.                              407

great antiquity; and is to be traced up to a period when admira-
tion for the real or imaginary exploits and institutions of the cele-
brated King Arthur led to the commemoration of bim in umany
parts of the island by this and other modes of perpetuating his
fame, and when in Scotland, in particular, his name was given to
an immense number of objects, natural and artificial, many of which
in different districts still retain it.
  All the different localities I have mentioned in connection with
the castle, viz. the Royal Park and gardens, the Ladies' Hill and
valley, the Ballingeich Road, and the Gowling, Hill, as well as a
few houses in the higher portion of that part of the town of Stir-
ling called the Castle-hill, make up, with the castle itself, the Con-
stabulary, the whole of which is comprehended within the parish
of Stirling, there being no extra-parochial territory in Scotland.
The castle is under the government of a lieutenant-governor and
a deputy-governor.  In 1360, Sir Robert Erskine of Marr was
appointed captain or governor bv David II., from which time the
office appears to have continued, with little interruption, heredi-
tary in the family till the Earl of Marr's forfeiture in 1715.  The
present lieutenant-governor is General Sir Martin Hunter, and
the deputy-governor, Colonel Sir Archibald Christie, who, since
his appointment, has resided in the castle.  Along with him, a fort-
major, a storekeeper, who is also acting barrack-master, a barrack-
sergeant, and a master-gunner, form the resident staff.  There is
a garrison, which consists of the depot of one of the regiments of
infantry, usually amounting to from 250 to 300 men.  For the re-
ligious instruction of the staff and garrison, with their families, a
chaplain is provided by Government.  Down to 1835, it had been
the practice, for a considerable time, to give this appointment to
one of the parochial ministers of Stirling, or even to the minister
of a parish at a distance from the place, cenverting the office into
little better than a sinecure.  A better system is now acted upon.
The chaplain has me other office to withdraw him from his duties
in the castle.  The present chaplain is the Rev. Robert Watson.
The rural portion of the Constabulary, which is under the manage-
ment of the Commissioners for Woods and Forests, is let on lease,
with a servitude, by which the race-course is preserved from being
turned up by the plough, and with a reservation of 73.3 acres,
47.8 of Which are in the King's Park, and 25.5 in the Gowling
Hill, whensoever the commissioners may think proper to plant
them with trees.  This would be a great improvement in respect


