
                               PAISLEY.                      225

the last meeting of presbytery, which was held on the 1st of this
month, February 1837.
   Parishes of Pais1ey.-Since 1641, the old or Abbey parish of
Paisley has had the benefit of two ministers.  In that year the
minister, Mr Calvert, agreed to give a colleague out of his stipend,
(originally 16 chalders of meal,) " 5 chalders, and that according
to the act of high commission, and promised, moreover, that he
would give a chalder more, provided the entrant should be agree-
able to the presbytery, the parish, and himself."/f*  The stipend of
the charge, thus erected, has since received several augmentations,
and it now consists of 22 chalders, half meal and half barley, with
L.15 for communion elements. +  The stipend of the first charge,
which was augmented in 1830, is 22 chalders, half meal and
half barley, with L. 20 for communion elements, and about L. 19
as compensation for grass glebe.  The arable glebe, including
the site of the manse, consists of about 4 1/2 acres, and is well situ-
ated for letting out as garden ground.  This charge has a manse
attached to it.  The present one was built in 1824, and reflects
great credit on the taste and liberality of the heritors.
   From the increase of population in the parish, particularly
in the town, an additional church became necessary, and accord-
ingly in 1736, the burgh was erected into a separate parish, by
a decreet of the Lords Commissioners for the plantation of churches.
At the same time, a charter was obtained from Lord Dundonald,
the patron of the parish, granting liberty to the magistrates and
community to build within the burgh, a church or churches, of
which the patronage was to be vested in the magistrates and town-
council.  In consequence of the arrangements they, entered into,
a church was erected in 1736, as the parish church of the burgh
of Paisley.  From the continued increase of the population, ad-
ditional church accommodation became again necessary, and in
the year 1756, another place of worship was erected.  Being built
on the height called Oakshawhead, the highest part of the town,
it was distinguished by the name of the High Church, and the for-
mer erection, from its relative situation, was denominated the
Laigh Kirk or Low Church.  In the space of other twenty-
five years, the population still rapidly increasing, it was found ne-

<FOOTNOTE>Stat. Act. Vol. vii. p. 94.
          There was once a house attached to this charge, although it seems never to have
been recognized as a manse.  It was the gift of the town to the second minister, who
had the special charge of the burgh.


