
                          HAMILTON.                              273

the ground, with a little black boy on the opposite side of the tree
pointing out the game--both by Vandyke--are also master-pieces
of art. An entombment of Christ by Poussin, an Ascension piece
by Georgione, a dying Madona by Corregio, a stag-hunt by Sney-
der, a laughing boy by L. Da Vinci, and an admirable portrait
of Napoldon by David, painted from life, by permission granted to
the present Duke of Hamilton, are all well known works of art of
great value. The east staircase contains a large altar-piece by
Girolamo dai Libri, from San Lionardo nel Monte, near Veroina.
of the Castieri family, with a Madona and child placed in abbair
above them-(vide Vasari, edition 0648.) In the breakfast-room
is a picture by Giacomo da Puntormo of Joseph in Egypt receiv-
ing his father and his brothers, into which is introduced the por-
trait of Beronzino: (vide Vasari.) In the same room, by Luca Sig-
norelli, the circumcision of the infant Christ, supposed to have been
painted by Sodoma: (vide Vasari, edition 1648:) and a portrait by
Artonelli of Mycena, said to have been the first painter in oil,
1474. This is still in a state of admirable preservation. The great
gallery and principal apartments contain also a large collection
of family portraits, and other paintings, by Vandyke, Kneller, Ru-
bens, Corregio, Guido, Rembrandt, Titian, the Carraccis, Salva-
tor Rosa, Carlo Dolee, Guereino, Georgione, Poussin, Spagno-
letti, Reynolds, Hamilton, &c. Here, if anywhere in Scotland, is

		       "An art akin to nature's self,
		So mighty in its means, we stand prepared
		To see the life as lively mocked, as ever
		Still sleep mocked death."
	A number of antique vases adorn the principal rooms, partibu-
larly one in the new dining-room, of giallo-antico, in the form of
a tripod, of great beauty, and of extraordinary dimensions, being
5 feet 3 inches in height, 14 feet 3 inches in circumference, and 9 1/2
inches deep. The vase itself is supported by a circular central pil-
lar of beautiful form, richly carved and fluted, and with three square
fluted pilasters at the sides, each resting on a lion's foot and termi-
nating with a lion's head-the whole standing on a base of beautiful
African marble. In the breakfast-room and small drawing-room
are two slabs of porphyry upon gilt bronze legs, formerly composing
part of an altar-piece at Rome. Both slabs are of oriental por-
phyry, of equal size, and of great beauty. In an adjoining room-
there is a cabinet covered with a slab of Malachite (Cuprum AErugo,
Lin.) of the most splendent lustre imaginable. There are also a
great many antique cabinets in the different apartments, enriched


