
202    			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

rapidly,--trees of this species, not above thirty years planted,
girthing four feet. The Scotch firs are of large size, and highly
ornamental. There are also oaks containing upwards of 100 feet
of timber, and beeches 160 feet.
	Although the larch grows vigorously for a time, it has not any
where in the parish attained to a large size. There are larches
at Munshes, from seventy to eighty years of age, which would not
yield more than 40 or 50 feet of timber. Most of them are evi-
dently not in a healthy state.
	Upwards of 100 acres of natural wood, on the estate of Kirk-
ennan, are now in thd course of being cut down. This wood con-
sists, of oak, ash, bhrch, &c. It is thirty years old.
	Thd woods on the estates of Kirkennan, Barlochan, Almer-
ness, and Castlegower, are from one thirty-five years planted.
There is wood on the estate of Munshes much older. All the
woods in the parish consist chiefly of oak. Yearly thinning and
pruning, though in some places neglected, have in general been
well attended to.

<TABLE>
			Number of acres under wood.
                		 Estates.              Imperial acres,
              			Kirkennan,                     247
              			Orchardton,                    190
              			Almerness,                     163
              			Munshes,                       156
              			Castlegower and Craigton, 	76
			        Halkethaths,                    44
		                Barlochan,                      34
              			The other estates may contain   50
          		                                       ---
							       960

	At Hopebead, on the line of the old military road from Castle
Douglas to Dumfries, there is a common plane tree, known by the
name of the Forge-tree, equalled by few if any, in this neighbour-
hood. It girths 10 1/2 feet at three feet and a-half from the ground.
Its branches extend horizontally, and form an exact circle of 76
feet in diameter, the extremities of which are not more than five feet
from the ground. The top is of a conical shape, and, when bovered
with foliage, affords an agredable shade, and presents a magnificent
appearance. There are no records from which its precise age can
be ascertained; but, according to tradition, it was a full-grown tree
in the reign of King William III.; and it may have derived its name
from His Majesty having passed that road with his army on his way
to Ireland, and his cavalry having erected a forge there for the pur-
pose of shoeing their horses. The trunk contains lOO feet, and the
branches upwards of 200 feet of measurable timber. There is a
                                4


