
142			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

and his emoluments, as session-clerk and treasurer, amount to L. 6;
in all, L.68, 8s. yearly. The teacher at Bargrenan has, in addi-
tion to the school fees, the sum of L.5 allowed by the Earl of
Galloway. The fees do not exceed L. 10. He generally resides
two or three weeks alternately with those farmers who have chil-
dren at school, otherwise it would be impossible to exist on the
scanty remuneration he receives for his labours. The teacher at
Stranord has no salary: his emoluments do not exceed L.20
yearly, a sum inferior to the earnings of a labourer in constant
employment. In addition to these schools, the Countess of Gal-
loway has a charity school near Cumloden Cottage, where 25
girls are instructed in reading, writing, arithmetic, and needle
work, by a female teacher. Besides those children whom the pa-
rochial teacher is bound to teach gratuitously, the Earl of Gallo-
way pays for the instruction of 20 children in the common branches
of education at the parish school; at Lady Heron Maxwell and
Mrs Stewart pay L.2 yearly to the teacher at Stranord, for the
instruction of poor children. There are none of the younf, be-
twixt six and fifteen, who cannot read, though there are a few
who cannot write. There are very few persons above fifteen who
cannot read, but many of the females above that age cannot write.
The people in general are fully alive to the advantages of educa-
tion for their children; though it is to be regretted, that many of
those whose children are taught gratuitously are not sufficiently
attentive to enforce their attendance regularly, but allow them
to be absent from school on the most trivial occasion. Many
parts of the parish are so distant from any school, (being from six
to ten miles distant over moors and bogs,) as to prove a serious ob-
stacle to attendance. The population is thinly scattered, and the
families are mostly those of shepherds. They, however, display a
laudable solicitude for the instruction of their children, and several
of the families unite to procure a person, generally a young lad,
to teach them, as it is impossible to assemble the children toge-
ther daily for this purpose. The teacher usually goes the round
of each, family, remaining a week or fortnight in each, and the
children bring their victuals with them, and remain for the same
period, and thus an itinerating school is formed alternately in
each other's houses. As the most of the families are poor, and
consequently cannot afford to give much to the teacher beyond
his food, the services of one willing to encounter this expatriation
among the hills, are sometimes difficult to be procured.
                           3


