
                        ETTRICK.                        63

like rustling leaves, ever borne and wafted by the wind in gusts
among the hills.  But of the three following, we believe, the shep-
herd would say, we could scarcely speak too highly.  1. Eriophorum
vaginatum, which in its youngest state is called moss-crops, is
greedily pulled up by the sheep; in a farther advanced state it is
called ling or laing.  This, to speak in the words of one who has
long observed its advantages, is a very valuabel spring pasture; it
is a hardy perennial, and affords a grateful and nourishing food.
2. Sesleria carulea, blue moor-grass, or pry, is also a hardy.
perennial.  It resists the severity of the winter.  It remains green
through the spring months, and is one of the most valuable of all our
mountain grasses.  3. Juncus acutiflorus, sprett, is very abundant
among the hills.  It grows most luxuriantly on a wettish soil.  While
it serves for pasture, it is chiefly cut for hay, during the autumnal
months; and, while it is very serviceable for the black cattle during
the winter, a portion of it is usually kept for the sheep, in case
of a "lying storm."*
     The name Forest, implies that the district was once "the land
of trees."  But the freebooters and moss-troopers in the time of
James IV. cut and destroyed many of them, and even John Mur-
ray, the Sheriff of Selkirkshire, who should have protected the
rights of his royal master, has his name enrolled among the num-
ber of the delinquents.  At last, James V. we are told, "showed
a disposition to change the forest into what it now is,-a sheep-walk,
by stocking a part of it with extensive flocks."  There are now
but few remains of the ancient forest.  An old tree may be seen
here and there, and sometimes a few together, to mark both the
antiquity, and the natural features of the wood of the country.  The
kinds of the natural wood must have been very numerous.  We
have counted between twelve and fourteen in one wide cleugh alone.
The prevailing, however, are the ash, the mountain-ash, the birch,
the alder, the willow, the thorn, &c.  But while the natural wood
is dwindling, decaying, and dying, several young plantations are
rising, flourishing, and waving among our hills, and all seem to
indicate that the forest can yet support and nourish them.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

     Eminent Men.-Alexander Cunningham, the historian, was a
native of this parish; and his father, Alexander Cunningham, was

<FOOTNOTE>*For a list of the different grasses, see the article " SELKIRKSHIRE," in the Edin-
burgh Encyclopedia.


