
     of Alford.

but by the humble and the poor, by the friends, as well as the enemies of those
who subvert the order, the peace, and the justice of society.
   This paper demands attention, also, as affording some proof of the an-
cient population of this district.  All the persons taxed held possessions from
the laird, and were heads of families, with cottars, grassmen, sub-tenants.
and servants under them, from whom they were to receive some relief of the
burden of the tax

<TABLE>

The number taxed by name is                                    61
And for the Kirkton of Alford there may be allowed              3
                                                              --- 
                        Total of families renting land         64
The number of those who hold of the proprietor at present is   40
                                                              ---
                                                   Decrease    24

</TABLE>

   This decrease is a diminution of the number of families; and, if we
pose the numbers of servants etc. and sub-tenants, was in proportion at that
time to the number of tenants, the total decrease of the number of souls must
be very great.
   It is proper to observe, that this estate was formerly much better provided
with moss than any other in the parish, or the country in general, which
may have occasioned a more than ordinary number of inhabitants.

<UNREADABLE>

     \pThe Court of the landis and barronic of Petsluge, Meikle Endovie, Band-
     ley, Badivin, and others pertinentts, with Aidgethen, Walhouse,
     Midmill, Kirktoune of Al, and thir pertinetts, be the richt
     honourable Jon Forbes of Lefly, heritorr thereof, halden at Petflug,
     the tent day of Agust, Iaivi and fourtie and aught years.  Thorras
     Davidsone portioner, of Aigethen, bailzie; Williame clarke of
     court; George Touch in Dykeheid, officiar; Dempster the suttis, cal-
     let members prent, the court sensit in forme and maneir as effeirs.
     \c- 

     
     \pThe said day compeirit George Touch, in Dykeheid, and hes givven his
     aith to be honest and trew in ye office officiarie, in ye ground and baronie of
     Pitfluge, ay and tyll he be dischargit.
     \pThe said day compeitit Alexander Wat, being persewit for to scheir in
     harvest to Williame Patersone, in Bandley; and being accusit, hes givven
     his aith to be free of the said persute; and theirfoir, the said Alexander War
     most pay his teynd of beir and aitts: fine the said Alexander, his wyf is o-
     bleigt to scheir in harvest to Williame Patersone in Bandley.
     \pThe said day, James Ingrahame in Mikill Endovie, is decerenit and or-
     denirt be ye bailze, to go hame to Jon Couper, and mike his actuell resi-
     \u-
     


