
     Statistical Account

   There are in the parish, 22 Antiburghers and 13 Burgher
Seceders; 1 Berean, and 1 member of the Episcopal church;
37 Dissenters in all.  There are 13 wrights; 9 masons; 9
smiths; 8 shoemakers; 6 tailors; 3 wheel-wrights, 2 of these
are coopers; 1 surgeon; 1 brewer; 1 bakers and 1 bee-hive
and basket maker.  In the village of Leuchars, are 7 ale-houses,
and there are 2 others in the district.  Two ale-houses in the
village of Leuchars, are certainly sufficient to supply all the
inhabitants; and a greater number tends very much to destroy
the morals, and impair the health of the inhabitants.  There
are 90 looms in the parish, 34 of these in the village of Leu-
chars.  The weavers are employed in what is called household
work of various kinds; but chiefly in brown linens, single
and double sail cloth, which they weave for the Dundee mer-
chants.  Several of them buy yarn, weave it, and sell the
webs to merchants in Dundee and Cupar.  This kind of
manufacture is increasing, and it is thought will increase.
There is one of the weavers famous for working all kinds of
damask, and other table linens.  It is thought the population
will soon rise above the return made to Dr Webster: there
are 10 new houses built in the village of Leuchars this sum-
mer, to be inhabited at Martinmass next.  A great spirit for
building has discovered itself for several years past, especially
in the village: though building is carried on at a great ex-
pence, free stones have not been found in the district, except
on the southwest, by the side of the river Eden, below a most
valuable surface: The proprietors are unwilling to break more
of it than what is absolutely necessary for their own use, and
the use of their farms.  The cart load of free stones costs 2 s,
the driving and toll, 3 d.  On the west side of the parish
which is hilly, there are inexhaustible fields of fine hard blue
whin stones; these cost is for driving the cart load, and 4 d
for quarrying.  From the top of Lucklaw-hill, part of which


