
                       LATHERON.                              107

excambion about fourteen years ago, and it may be worth about L.20
per annum.  The amount of the stipend is 16 chalders, the one-half
meal and the other barley, with L.10 for communion elements.
   As stated under a former bead, there is a Government church
at Berriedale, in the west end of the parish.  It was built in 1826,
and accommodates 300 sitters . The district connected with it
now forms a quoad sacra parish.  In consequence of some of the
families having been removed since the church was built, it is now
too remote for the more populous districts  connected with it, but
is, notwithstanding, still very useful; and were a small church to
be erected in the eastern quarter, where the minister could preach
every alternate Sabbath, it would be still more so.  There is an
excellent manse near the church, as also a garden and small
grebe.  Both the latter were furnished by the late proprietor Mr
Horne of Langwell, and are continued by his successor Mr Do-
nald Horne.  The stipend, amounting to L.120, is paid by Govern-
ment, and the population is fully 1400.  There was also a church
built at the village of Lybster in 1836 by subscription, and the
district connected with it constituted a parish quoad sacra.  It is four
miles east of the parish church, has a regular minister settfed in
it, and a population exceeding 2500  souls.  A manse has not yet
been built, nor a glebe assigned, but the minister has been pro-
vided with a good house in the meantime, and a stipend of L.100
per annum, which is paid from the seat-rents.  The church is a
neat, commodious, and well-finisbed building, constructed of the
best materials.  It contains 805 sitters, and the contract price was
L.830, all of which was cleared off the same year in which the
house was finished.  Its great utility in that district is universally
acknowledged.  All the seats are let, the church crowded, and
yet the parish church as well attended as formerly.  This is the
only attempt hitherto made, on the Church extension plan, in any
of the counties north of Inverness, and it has succeeded far beyond
the most sanguine expectations of its promoters.  How long the
people, who are almost all composed of the poor and working
classes, may be able to afford seat-rents equal to their minister's
stipend, must depend upon the future success of the berring-fish-
ing.  It is hoped, however that Government will er elong see the
expediency and necessity of appropriating a small sum by way of
stipend to assist such necessitous places.  The proprietors con-
nected with the district contributed liberally towards its erection,
as also several others both in and out of the parish together with


