
                           ABERDEEN.                       101

however, they were unsuccessful, and the paper is accordingly
merely a Conservative journal, which in Church politics favours
the moderate party. Its weekly circulation is about 900. At first
it was published on Saturday, but, in consequence of recent changes
in the time of arrival of the mails, it has for some months past been
published on Friday morning in town, a second edition being Publish-
ed in the evening for country circulation, embracing the intelligence
that used formerly to be brought by the mail of Saturday morning.
	Public Libraries.--Besides the libraries belonging to the Uni-
versity, the School of Divinity, the Medical Society, the Society
of Advocates, and the Mechanics' Institution, there are several
subscription libraries in Aberdeen, the principal of which are those
belonging to Messrs A. Brown and Co., D. Wylie and Son, and
W. Russell.
	The number of volumes contained in these libraries may be
about 10,000 or 12,000; they are chiefly in the lighter depart-
ments of literature, but there are many also of more permanent
interest, and of a more important character.
         The terms of subscription vary from 15s. to L.1, 11s. 6d. per
annum, according to the number of volumes borrowed at a time,
and, generally speaking, these libraries are tolerably well supplied
with the new publications, at least with those by authors whose
reputation is already established: in regard to works of less ge-
neral interest, either as respects their subject, or the name of their
author, it cannot be supposed that the proprietors of such libraries
should be desirous of accumulating them on their shelves; and,
indeed, there is often great difficulty in getting a sight of them in
any other way than by purchasing them, for the booksellers in
Aberdeen do not often choose to incur the risk of ordering books
that are not already in some degree regarded as standard works,
unless in consequence of receiving an order for them from an in-
tending purchaser.
	Markets.--There is a weekly market on Thursdays for meal,
and on Fridays for grain, butcher-meat, and other provisions.
Within the last few years several butchers' shops have been opened
in different parts of the town, where a supply of meat may be ob-
tained on any day of the week.
	There is a market of fish daily, unless in tempestuous weather;
and a supply of cured fish, including the well known "Findon
haddocks," may be had daily.
	A market for the sale of linen is held in the Green on the last


