
                                      LOTH.                         195

	mitive, transition, and secondary which the storms of centuries
	have collected in the bay of Kintradwell, and in one or two simi-
	lar localities. From Port Gower to tbe extremity of the parish at
	the Ord, the sea shore is'formed of one continued and rugged mar-
	gin of limestone, part of the oolitic formation referred to by Mr
	Cunningham. This stone has often been burnt into lime, which
	was found to be of excellent quality; but the extra expense of fuel
	at a place remote from coal markets, increased the expense of the
	manufacture beyond the price at which English lime can be de.
	livered in the parish; and besides, the encroachments of the sea
	on this coast require that the natural rocky barrier, which present-
	ly exists, should not be weakened or reduced by the removal of
	any part of it.
	  Zoology.-The only rare species of animal now found in the
	parish is the red-deer (Cervus elaphus), which occasionally wan-
	der from the interior recesses of the county, into the corries and
	passes of Ben Uarie and Ben Veallich. The fox, once so destruc-
	tive to the farmer, has been extirpated; and One of the last wolves
	killed in the county of Sutherland was destroyed, in the Glen of
        Loth, some time between the years 1690 and 1700.
	  The cattle, sheep, horses, and bogs, reared in the parish, are
	all superior animals, and often obtain the highest prizes, when ex-
	hibited at public competitions. The fishes that may be said to
	belong to Loth are extremely important and valuable. The sal-
	mon of the Helmsdale are of a large size, and the river being
	fished by the proprietor, the Duke of Sutherland, the utnwst at-
	tention is directed to the proper mode of fishing, which annually
	closes two weeks before the legat period, in, order, to allow a
	greater number of spawning fish to ascend the river; aod the
	spawning-beds and fry are afterwards carefully protected; but so
	peculiarity in the habits of the fish have been observed in tbis-
	river. Of sea fish the herring is the most valuable, and when
	they approach this part of the coast, in tbe months of July and
        August, are in prime condition, and of very superrior quality. Cod
	are also got in great numbers, and excel in quality and size those
	obtained in the upper waters of the Frith; and abundance of had.
	dock, skate, and whiting are constantly obtained. Turbot are
	plentiful at a distance of some miles from the coast; but she fisher-
	men have no inducement to follow the deep-sea fishing. Lobstars
       and crabs are, at present, very numerous, but the former were so

<FOOTNOTE>Scrope's Art of Deer'Stalking contsists an account of tbis occurance.


