
     Statistical Account

them to have been temporary forts, or stations erected by
the Romans, for giving signals, depositing provisions and
stores, and protecting their pioneers from the attacks of the
Caledonians, whilst employed in cutting down the great
forest in the plain below.  This conjecture, it is imagined,
receives some support from the consideration, that places of
a similar form are found in other parts of the country, into
which the Romans are known to have penetrated.  Others,
unwilling to admit their pretensions to so high antiquity,
believe them to have been formed by the feudal proprietors;
for some purposes of security or convenience, which it may
be difficult now to discover.  It is surely matter both of sur-
prise and regret, that no certain account can now be obtain-
ed of the origin and use of these works; which apparently
have formed a part of some extensive system, the develope-
ment of which might serve to illustrate the ancient state
and history of our country*.-A dispute having arisen be-

<FOOTNOTE>

*There seems to be a considerable resemblance between these sorts, and
the forts of the Firbolgs, of which an account is given in Glose's Antiquities
of Ireland The passage alluded to, is extracted from that work in the
Monthly Review, for December 1794, page 394; and was not seen by the
writer of this account, till after it was prepared for the press.  The inser-
tion of the passage may perhaps be gratifying to some readers.  "The forts
"common in this period, will be seen to be perfectly consistent with the rude
"state of the military art among the Firbolgs; though very superior to those
"of the Celtes.  The hish, who retained the customs of the latter, Cam-
"brensis tells us, had no castles; their woods served them for camps, and
"their marshes for ditches.  However, they learned from the Firbolgs, to
"take refuge on hills, as Caesar says the Britons did.  These were conical
"rising grounds, which were encircled with a single, double, or triple en-
"trenchment, and which afforded ample protection; such were the infinite
"number of high round forts every where to be met with, and by Cam-
"brensis, expressly ascribed to the Osfmen.  The size of these earthen forts,
"varied with the number and power of the clan; some are but 18 or 20
"yards in diameter, others cover as many acres."


