
350 		                   AYRSHIRE.

	Springs.--There are several chalybeate springs in the parish,
which in former times were valued for their healing virtues; but
the only waters now prized are those from the excellent wells,
which are found in every quarter. From the sloping grounds on
which the town is built in particular, and which consist of strata
of red sandstone, occasionally cropping out, springs of the purest
water gush in abundance, and contribute largely to the health
and comfort of the inhabitants. Most of these, indeed, vary
in their supplies, and sometimes in the autumn of a dry season
altogether withhold them; but there is one well worthy of notice,
situate at the base of the declivity, called from the copiousness
and velocity with which it issues from the rack, and some old trees
that overhang it, the Well Trees Spout. The stream that flows
from it never perceptibly diminishes, and is of sufficient magnitude
to drive the wheel of a mill, to which purpose it was at one time
applied; and by a measurement lately made with great care by
Mr Andrews, the produce of the spring is not less than 10,000
imperial gallons per hour.
	Rivers.--The rivers are the parts of the Doon and Girvan al-
ready noticed in describing the boundaries; and the only thing
deserving of observation, as connected with the parish, is a change
which has taken place in the course of the Doon, near its con-
fluence with the sea. While it forms the northern boundary of
the parish, from Cassilis to within a quarter of a mile of its mouth,
it there ceases to do so; and the lands of Cunnan Park, a hoIm
amounting to about fifty acres, are included in Maybole, although
now on the Ayr side of the river. Upon examining, however, the
exterior line of this holm, it is not difficult to observe the traces
of an old water course; and there can be little doubt of what tra-
dition affirms, that the Doon, when the boundaries of the parish
were assigned, found its way by this course into the ocean. The
old channel was quite circuitous; and when it is further observed
that the sea is receding from the coast, having left even within
the last forty years seven acres of land attached to Cunnan Park
it is not at all surprising that the water made for themselves the
present short and less sluggish course, which may be described as
the chord, of which the old one is the arc. *

<FOOTNOTE>A tradition indeed prevails that the alteration was produced artificially by Crom-
well and his soldiers, but I have not been able to find any grounds whatever for re-
ceiving this as true; and it will be seen from what has just been stated, that no such
operation was necessary to produce the change which has certainly taken place.


