
764                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

maturity, from the wetness of the soil, and the consequent damp
and chill of the climate; but, by a system of judicious draining,
for which the inclination of the surface affords great facilities, both
the soil and climate have been greatly improved; and the conse-
quence is, that our harvests are now but little behind those of our
southern neighbours, and the grain little inferior in quality to
theirs.  There are also large tracts of moss in the parish, which
are valuable for the supply of fuel which they yield.  The peats
generally are of a very superior quality, being of a deep black co-
lour, and close in the texture, and, when properly dried, are little
inferior to the finest description of Scotch coals.  The greater
part of the parish seems, at one time, to have been covered with
health, and, even yet, the cultivated land has a great tendency to
return to heath, which is only kept down by a regular rotation of
cropping.  Under these circumstances, the land can never be al-
lowed to remain sufficiently long in grass to afford very rich pas-
turage, which, in every situation, requires a series of years, as well
as kindly soil for its production.  Lands that have been long in
cultivation are shy in retaining artificial grasses, while those which
have recently been brought under the plough, after a proper
application of lime, produce rich crops of rye-grass and clover,
and retain the sown clover for two or three years, whereas, in
land of a much richer quality, but which has been long in tillage,
red clover seldom keeps the soil more than one year.
   Forest and Plantations.-There are no trees of an great age
to be found, and the only plantations worthy of particular notice,
are those in the immediate neighbourhood of the mansion-house
of Auchry. These were put down by the late Joseph Cumine,
of Auchry,  about the middle of last century, and consist of ash,
oak, larch, elm, plane, lime, Scotch and spruce firs, all of which
thrive remarkably well, when planted in anything like good soil.
All the hardier kinds of forest trees seem to thrive well, but par-
ticularly the fir species; Scotch and spruce firs and larches chiefly
prevail, grow to a large size, and are excellent timber. In low and
damp situations, the spruce fir grows with great rapidity, but the
timber of this species is difficult to work, and by no means so va-
luable.  Mr Lumsden, the present proprietor of Auchry, is at
great pains in keeping his woods, both by thinning and pruning
those that are advanced, and trenching and digging in the young
plantations, which tends greatly to promote their growth.


