
           46                         RENFREWSHIRE

                 unproductive land in the pgrish. Draining, which was then was little, if
                 at all, practised, is going forward with great spirit, and wil with-
                 out doubt tend much to imporve the quality of the soil, and pro-
                 mote its fertility. It does not appear to the writer that any bet-
                 ter system of husbandry can be introduced, or the facilities of in-
                 ternal communication increased,-there being already excellent
                 roads leading to and through every part of the parish. Could ar-
                 dent spirits be altogether banished, or their consumption diminsh-
                 ed tenfold, and those engaged in the public works led more generally
                 to sanctify the Sabbath and attend upon public worship, these
                 things would tend greatly to promote the best interests of the
                 working-classes. It is likewise evident that there is much need for
                 church extension,-the present accommodationbeing by no means
                 adequate to the population.

                      January 1836.


                                        UNITED PARISHES OF

                                       HOUSTON AND KILLALLAN

                           PRESBYTERY OF PAISLEY, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                              THE REV. JOHN MONTEATH, D.D. MINISTER.



                           I. -TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

                       The parishes of Houston and Killallan were united in the year
                  1760.
                       Names.-Killallan is a corruption of Killallan, i.e. Cella Fillani,
                  the name of the tutelary saint of the parish. Houston may be sup-
                  posed to be a corruption of Hew's town, perhaps from Hugo de
                  Padvinan, who is said, by Mr Crawfund, in his History of Renfrew-
                  shire, to have obtained a grant of the barony of Kelpeter, the an-
                  cent name of Houston parish, from Baldwin of Biggar, Sheriff of
                  Lanaark in the reign of Malcohn IV.
                       Boundaries, extent.-The united parish is bounded on the west
                  by Kilmacomb; on the south by Kilbarchan; on the north and east
                  by the parish of Erskine, which separates it from the Clyder. It
                  is about 0 miles in length and 3 in breadth.
                       Hydrogaraphy.-The only considerable river id Gryfe, which


