
     of Edderachylis.

est this island, as well as its inhabitants, make it their business,
as often as they can, to come with boats to this place, and

     VOL. VI. P p

<FOOTNOTE>

and as both parties were ready for an engagement in a place called Maldy,
Sir Hugh M'Kay of Far presented himself to them upon the top of a hill
hard by with 300 men, and finding how matters stood, immediately called
both before him to a conference in order to an accommodation, which none
of them durst refuse.  At this interview sir Hugh proposed to Donald
M'Leod, that he should resign his pretentious to Edderachylis in favour of
his son Donald, and that he himself, in consideration of his doing so, would
grant him other land near himself, called the Davoch of Hope, as also Do-
nald M'Kay's mother to be his wife; which proposal he at once agreeing
to, the whole difference ended and peace and harmony took place.  This
promise Sir Hugh actually fulfilled, giving Donald the Davoch of Hope,
where he lived to an extreme old age, with a family of six or seven sons,
continuing the same russian to the last.  He was buried in the kirk of Di-
urness, where upon the south wall on the inside of the building, there is a
monument of his with the initials of his name, and his arms cut out in the
stone, and the year 1619.  When became of the sons cannot be discovered,
but the lands of Hope are in the possession of the Reay family, as a part of
their estate.
In this manner came Edderachylis into the hands of the M'Kays, or that
branch of them who call themselves the family of Scouty; but of them
there were only three proprietors before it became a part of the estate of
Reay; the first of these was Donald already mentioned, the second his son
Hugh, and the third his son Hugh, who was the famous general M'Kay,
commander in chief of the forces in Scotland under King William III.  He
was born in Scoury, this parish, and as George Lord Reay married his daugh-
ter, he gave him Edderachylis, as her tocher.
   Next as to Ashir or Fashir, the northern part of this parish, which, as be-
fore observed, was the waste or uninhabited parts of Diurness.  It, as well
as Diurness, as far back as our information goes, was church-lands, belong-
ing of old to the bishoprick of Caithness, and they were disposed of by one
of the Popish bishops of that see to a Lewisman, one Ay Morison, son of
Norman, who coming by sea of a cargo of meal to Thurso, near the Epis-
copal seat, happened to fall in love with a sister of the bishop's and married
her, and as her tocher received all Diurness and Ashir, a good and exten-
sive highland estate.  What was the name of this country, prior


