

                               MINNIGAFF.			129

stance, about an inch thick, was found, which required to be bro-
ken with the pickaxe. On removeing this, a circular wall was ex-
posed, enclosing a space several feet hn diameter, and three deep,
filled with red ashes. Under these a large flagstone was disco-
vered, about six feet long by three in breath, covering a pit about
a yard deep, in which were the remains of human body, which
crumbled into dust upon exposure to the air. About a quarter of
a mile from Creebridge, on the road to Dumfries, there is a large
tumulus of stones, which is supposed, along with those that have
been opened, to have been erected over the remainr of those who
fell in the battle fought by the Scots against the Romans and the
Picts, which is related in Buchanan's History in the following
terms:--
	"During the reign of King Eugenius, the Roman Lieutenant
Maximus, expecting to possess the whole island if he could only
destroy the two northern nations, commenced his operations by
pretending friedship to the Picts. As their circumstances were
the more depressed, and they were therefore the more ready to
listen to terms of pacification, he buoyed them up by magnificent
promises if they would prove sincere in their attachment to the
Romans, and, besides innumerable other advantages, he offered
to concede to them the whole territory of the Scots The Picts,
blinded with rage, and eager for vengeance, allured by his pro-
mises, and regardless of the future, willingly listened to the Ge-
neral's proposals, and, in conjunction with the Romans, ravaged
the possessions of the Scots. The first engagement took place
on the bank of the Cree, a river in Galloway, where the Scots,
being inferior in strength, were overcome by numbers. While
they fled on all sides, the Romans, certains of victory, pursued
without regularity; but, in the midst of the pursuit, the troops of
Argyle, and other remote districts, who had not yet joined the
army, arriving in good order, fell upon the dispersed Romans, and
occasioned a freat slaughter. Eugenius, profiting by this circum-
stance, rallied as many as he could of the fugitives, and held a
council of war on the present state of his affairs, when finding that,
with the forces he possessed, it would be hopeless to renew the
engagement, he retreated into Carrick."
	A small urn, containing ashes and burnt bones, was discoved
on the farm of Boreland in 1839, but was broken by the workmen
	KIRKCUDBRIGHT.			I



