
   198                           BANFFSHIRE.

   which the parish must formerly have been covered, and of barren
   moors.  There is, however, a considerable extent to which cultiva-
   tion might still be advantageously extended, though the greater part
   of the parish must continue for ever in a waste state. There is no
   undivided common.  A few acres, say ten or twelve, are covered
   with stunted birch of natural growth. There is a small planta-
   tion near Blackwater House, and so ' me ground has lately been
   Planted near Lesmurdie cottage and the manse, the whole of which
   does not exceed six acres.
      The real rental of the parish is about L.2416, 18s. 6d. Ster-
   ling exclusive of some bill ground, preserved as a deer forest, and
   worth about L.50.
      During the last thirt years, the turnip husbandry, and a regu-
   lar rotation of cropping,-seven-shift, has been introduced.  Dur-
   ing the same period, a considerable portion of waste land has been
   brought under cultivation, and some of the more spirited agricul-
   turists are now beginning to subdivide and inclose.  Two annual
   casttle-markets were established in 1824, one in July the other in
   October, both which are well attended.  A serious obstruction to
   agricultural improvements is the lamentable deficiency of roads
   and bridges.  From the great extent of waste land in the parish,
   the commutation road-money is inadequate to supply this want.
   During the above period, a line of road through the parish, from
   Rbynie to Mortlach, has been opened up but, from its Dot beina
   metalled, it is often barely passable, though -a principal line of
   communication in the district.
      Mantifactures.-There are two small distilleries in the parish,
   bearing a very high character for the excellence of the malt spirits
   produced at them, conducted by Messrs John Taylor, Lesmurdie,
   and James Robertson, Tomnavin.  They consume about 640
   quarters of malt annually, and produce 10,000 gallons of spirits.
   Some of the tenants also burn lime with peat,- chiefly for their
   own use, but in some cases for sale.
      Fishing.-The various mountain-streams, in the parish afford
   excellent trout. Salmon are also occasionally found in the Doverati.
                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Ecclesiastical State.-7 Number of families in the parish belong-
   ing to the Established Church, 147; Dissenting or Seceding fa-
   milies, 21; Roman Catholic families, 2.  The amount of stipend
   is L.152, 10s.  The glebe is said to contain upwards of 22
   Scotch acres, or about 28 imperial acres, and may be worth L.10


