
904                 SUPPLEMENT TO THE

in his interesting Statistics of Fever, proves that nearly one-
third of the fever patients under his hospital charge are Irish,
who may be safely set down as in almost all cases Roman Ca-
tholics.  A public collection was called for a few years ago in
all churches, Established and Dissenting, throughout the city, to
meet the expense incurred by the increase of fever.  In 28
churches of the Establishment, collections were forthwith made,
amounting to nearly L.600.  Four Dissenting congregations hold-
ing Church Establishment principles contributed L.165, 13s. 6d.;
eight Dissenting congregations not Holding these principles, con-
tributed L.161, 10s.; and the Roman Catholics themselves by an
oratorio, raised L.41, 17s. 6d.  Such was the manner, and the
proportions in which the general sum was contributed to the
funds of the Royal Infirmary, and from it one may gather whether
hatred to Popery be inconsistent with sympathy and affection for
Roman Catholics.  An important fact, admitting of a similar inter-
pretation, is stated by Henry Paul, Esq. in bis valuable Mortality
Bill of Glasgow for 1837. In the twenty-fifth table he gives
the amount of unemployed male operatives in Glasgow during the
summer months of that year who applied for relief out of the fund
subscribed for the purpose, and obtained employment.  Of these
there were 1920 Scotch and 1103 Irish.  There can be little
question that the vast majority of the latter were Roman Catho-
lics, and yet they were relieved by,the charity and kindness, in
a chief degree, of churchmen, in such a ratio as nearly two Irish
for every three Scotch applicants.  It may be added, that, in
a general collection in 1838, for a Board of Health, in the
benefits of which the Roman Catholic population largely share,
it was stated on good authority, that out of L.1000 collected, L.700
were contributed by the Established Church.  From these facts
the reader may see how false is the inference, that opposition to
Popery is associated with any indifference to the temporal welfare
of its adherents.  The kindness of the Established Church to the
Roman Catholic population is the ignore worthy of notice, when it
is remembered that that population are strongly opposed to those
principles civil and religious, which churchmen generally entertain
and revere.
   Society for Erecting Additional Parochial Churches in Glasgow
and Suburbs.--Though the Church of Scotland can scarcely ever
be said to have been altogether insensible to the obligation of ex-
tending her boundaries, so as to comprehend the people within the


