
64                            FIFESHIRE.

usually conferred on such corporations. Along with Falkland and
Auchtermuchty, it early lost, or, ceased to exercise, its right in the
election of a representative to Parliament; and though from its
rapidly increasing population and greatly extended trade, so as to
render it the third town in commercial enterprise in Fife, its for-
mer privilege might fairly have been restored under the new char-
ter, its voice has been allowed to merge in the general constituen-
cy of the county. By the returns of the last registration the town
and parish number eighty voters. In all other respects, New-
burgh retains the features of a royal burgb ; its revenue, though
still inconsiderable, has greatly increased of late years, being
about L. 170. It has two magistrates and a weekly court, fifteen
councillors, and a clerk to record its public proceedings. In the
progress of its civil history, nothing remarkable has been made the
subject of record; it has given birth to many respectable indivi-
duals, but the writer can discover no name in its annals that would
require a separate notice under the head of " Eminent Men."
   Land-owners.-The present land-owners are, David Balfour
Hay, Esq. of Leys, proprietor of Mugdrum and the lands of Lin-
dores, amounting to 400 imperial acres; Taylor Cathcart, Esq. pro-
prietor of Pitcairly, 429 imperial acres. The extent of property be-
longing to the borough is 178 imperial acres; and the remainder
of the parish, amounting to 24 imperial acres, is shared among
twenty smaller proprietors, called here, as in other parts of the
country, portioners. To these latter belong the sections of the
out-field land of the Woodriff, which are called hay-parts but
most of which have recently been purchased by the proprietor of
Mugdruim.
   Parochial Registers.-The records of the kirk-session date from
the year 1652. In the earlier period they have been very correct-
ly kept, and contain many interesting allusions to passing events.
   Antiquities.-At the north-east extremity of the parish near the
river Tay, on a gentle rise, in the middle of a rich and extensive
flat of clay land, appear the ruins of the Abbey of Lindores. Con-
cerning the history of this abbey, while it continued under the
power of the church, or after it was erected into a temporal lord-
ship, no thing remarkable has been recorded by the annalists of the
times, except that, from its great wealth and extensive privileges it

<FOOTNOTE>A long account of the trial of A woman accused of witch craft is quoted in the for-
mer Statistical notice of the parish. Some curious information, extracted from them,
is to be found in a volume recently published by the Abbotsford Club. They are
brought down with some interruptions to the present time.



