
         126                          ORKNEY.

         main in its natural state. The parish cemetery is not here, but
         lies around the present place of worship.
            To the above antiquities is to be added the number of graves
         found in two extensive fields, one in the north and the other in the
         south side of Westray. It is ascertained that these graves were
         not known to the inhabitants, until high gales of wind carried away
         the surface,-which, in both places being light and sandy, and easi-
         ly transported, exhibited to view the deposits which had been hid
         from the eye of many generations. Most of these graves are
         marked with a stone planted at the head and another at the foot
         of the place of interment: others, again, by flag stones set on
         edge, arranged in the form of a chest for holding the body toge-
         ther, with such articles as the custom of the time, or the reigning
         superstition, deemed expedient to be interred along with it. When
         opened, they were found to contain not only human bones, but
         warlike implements, especially swords in a most decayed state,
         also articles of dress, with some of a domestic description. Were
         more of them opened, there is little doubt that discoveries might
         be made, highly interesting to the antiquarian. That the fields on
         which, these graves are seen, were at some distant period the scene
         of hostile combat, cannot be doubted. The scattered state of the
         graves over these fields, which are of considerable extent, and
         their contents may be said to vouch for the truth of this opinion.
         But, besides these two fields, there is another place unnoticed by
         any author, which also bears evident marks of hostility. The
         place to which we allude, lies in a valley between two of the high-
         est hills, namely, Fitty and Gallow, far distant from any inhabited
         spot, and hard by what is called the Highlandman's hammer, al-
         ready alluded to, as the scene of bloody strife and of individual
         bravery. Here the slain seem to have been collected into two
         spots, the one separated from the other by a distance of 30 or 40
         yards, where the graves in each spot are seen huddled close toge-
         ther, and covered over with earth and stone. These spots are, to
         this day, known by the name of the bloody Tuacks, and it is not
         improbable that the one contains the ashes of the brave who
         fell in the common cause, and the other those of the vanquish-
         ed foe.
            Tumuli, or Pict's houses, as they are called, are numerous in
         this parish. They are seen in both islands, and chiefly on the sea
         shore. Some of them are large, and almost every one has
         an original or an appropriate name, transmitted, we way believe,


