
			BOTHWELL.                            789

In Catholic times, Bothwell was the most important of the five
collegiate churches of Lanarkshire.  It was established by Archibald
Douglas, Lord of Galloway, (who married Johanna Moray,
heiress of Bothwell,) 10th October 1398, and was confirmed by
a charter from the King, 5th February 1398-9.  It was about this
period that the present quire was built.  The master-mason, as
was indicated by an inscription in Saxon letters on a stone near
the outer base of the old steeple, now removed, was Thomas Tron.
The roof is arched and lofty, and presents the most remarkable feature
of the building; on the outside it is covered with large flags of
stone, hewn into the form of tiles resting on a mass of Iime and stone,
which in the centre is 11 feet in depth.  The side walls are
strengthened by strong buttresses to support the weight of the roof.
   The old church was deserted as a place of worship in 1828,
and now presents a very dilapidated appearance.  For the credit
of the parish it ought to be repaired.
   Bothwell Bridge.-The age of this structure catnot now be as-
certained, but it is of great antiquity.  In the Acta Parliamentorum,
temp. Car. 1. there is an act (1647) for a contribution to repair the
bridge of Bothwell.  It consisted originally of four arches, having
each a span of 45 feet, and 15 feet broad.  Some years ago,
a large addition was made to the old structure, by which the roadway
was widened from 12 feet to 32.
   About a quarter of a mile east of Bothwell Haugh, there is a
bridge across the South Calder, supposed to be of Roman construction;
it consists of one arch of a semicircular form, very high
and narrow, and without parapets.  The stones are neatly hewn,
and well put together, and the whole structure is still in perfect
preservation.  It is supposed to have been on the line of the great
Roman road called Watlin Street (so named probably from Vitellius),
which ran through this part of the country for several
miles, on the north-east bank of the Clyde.

    	                  III.-POPULATION.
   A comparative view of the population in former times, and at
the present day, may be deduced from a variety of documents in
the possession of the session-clerk.  The following tables possess
considerable interest, and are all derived from authentic sources.
The parochial books, towards the beginning of last century, are
very accurately kept, and may be depended on.  About that period,
the marriages, baptisms, and deaths, were as follows:
   LANARK                                  3X


