
254			AYRSHIRE.

north side of the cemetery, for the chaplain's manse: confirmed,
1509." The beautifully wooded and monastic place of Under-
bank is now occupied as the site of a cottage orn‚e, built close by
the ruins of the ancient mansion.
	2. Crosby, adjoining Southanan, comprehends a pretty exten-
sive portion of hill land, lying along the east side of the parish,
and abounds in moor game. This property belong to John
Crawfurd of Auchnames, whose ancestor aquired it from his
connections, the originally family, of the same name and designation,
about the beginning of last century. There is a small mansion-
house on it, erected near the end of the seventeenth century, which
was long ruinous, but is now being restored in good taste by the
proprietor. Crosby was an ancient inheritance of the Crawfurds
of Lowdon, sheriffs of Ayr, and there seems great probability that
it was at the original "Tower of Crosby" that the hero of Scot-
land, WALLACE, found refuge with his uncle, Sir Ronald Craw-
furd, during his outlawry by the English authorities. * This inci-
dent, it is true, has often been assigned to Crosby in Kyle, but,
ther seems great reason to think, erronously, Crosby in Cunning-
ham is uniformly contradistinguished from the other as "Crosby-
Crawfurd" in all early writings; and the intellegent Chalmers,
speaking of Crosby in Kyle, distincly states it to have "belong-
ed to the family of Fullarton in the twelfth century, and probably
from an earlier age."
         3. Kilbride, which, as before-observe, along with Ardneill,
was conferred by the renowned Bruce on the ancestor of the Earls
of Kilmarnock. These are still remaining here the walls of a very
stately tower, called Lawcastle, quite entire. It is beautifully si-
tuated on a step, an eminence overlooking the village, and com-
mands delightful prospects of the islands and frith to the west-
ward. In 1670, William, third Earl of Kilmarnock, alienated
this estate, along with the lands of Drummilling and Boydston to
a Major Hugh Bontine, who, it is said, acquired his fortune in
the service of the Commonwealth. From his heirs, the Baillies
of Monkton, the whole was judicially sold in 1759, with the ex-

<FOOTNOTE>Point thus alludes to the Tower of Crosby:--"Crosby toure is the habitatione
of William Crawfurd of Auchnaims, by divers though to the cheiffe of the Craw-
furds. He holds the same of the Earls of Glencairne. This surname is very an-
cient, and did memorable service under King Alexander the 3d, at the batell of Lar-
gis, by quhome their good service was recompensed with divers great lands and pos-
sessioes. According to the old common rithme,
          They had Draffen, Methweine, and rich erth Stevinstone;
          Cameltoune, Knockawart, and fair Lowdoune."




