
122                           EDINBURGHSHIRE.

1834. How ruinous is that appetite which withdraws so large a sum,
in so small a society from ministering to its comfort and improve-
ment. With the view of correcting this great evil, a   Tempe-
rance Society was formed in the parish in the end of 1830.
This brought much to the knowledge of the people, concerning
the extent and consequences of drinking, of which they had previ-
ously been wholly unaware, and was productive of real good even
to those who did not join it.  But the novelty of the thing wore
off, the lover of drink returned to it again, and though the society
still exists, its influence is little felt beyond the range of those who
have conscientiously entered it; while the evil practice is spread-
ing its influence even among the female part of our population.
Need it be wondered at, that, among those who thus-serve their ap-
petites, the truth makes but a feeble impression? that many turn
away from it altogether, and that the concerns of time usurp that
place in the thoughts which is due only to those of eternity. Still
there are many whose conduct is regular and becoming, and who
value the truth as it is in Christ.
   It is understood that much poaching goes on in the parish
though the poachers are believed to be chiefly visitors from other
places.
                           IV.-INDUSTRY. *

<TABLE>
The parish contains about 5070 acres; of these there are in tillage, or fit for tillage,
   though in pasture,                                                     3436 acres.
                             In hill pasture,                             1356
                                planting,                                  278
                                                                          ____
                                                            Total,        5070 acres.
   There is no undivided common in the parish.
   The arable land may be valued at                  L. 8246  8 0     per annum.
       pasture at                                        322  2 0
                                             In all, L. 8568 10 0
      Besides 278 acres in wood.
   This parish, reaching in its north-east direction to within about
two miles of Edinburgh, probably contains a greater variety of
land than any other at a similar distance from the city. This
arises from its extending southward to the summit of the Pent.
land  hills, and thus including in its bounds not only the level
fields which stretch out from the bottom of the hills, but also the
most part of the northern face of the.northern range. There is,
however, little of the land capable of improvement, if any, that has
not already been submitted to the plough and harrow; and much

<FOOTNOTE>Furnished by Mr Scott, farmer, Craig Lockhart.


