
270                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

four villages in the parish of considerable magnitude, Springfield,
Gretna, Rigg and Browhouses.
	Means of Communication.--The highways between Glasgow
and Carlisle, and between the latter place and Portpatrick, run
through the parish, the latter intersecting its whole length. The
old road to Carlisle, which is still the nearest to Longtown, Brampton,
and Newcastle, crosses the Glasgow road at the village of Gretna,
where there is a post-office, which, however, is connected only with
Carlisle. This renders correspondence from Scotland more ex-
pensive and tedious than it ought to be. The roads, both public
and parochial, are kept in the best order. There are three brid-
ges, one over the Kirtle, and two over the Sark, which were recently
and very substantially built. There are no regular harbours, though
vessels of 120 tons arrive occasionally at Sarkfoot, Port-Stormont,
Redkirk point, and Browhouses, for the purposes of exporting
grain and potatoes to the coast of Lancashire, and of importing
slate and coals from the coast of Cumberland.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church having been continued at
Graitney when the parish of Red-Kirk was united to it, is thus
rather inconveniently situated for the parishioners in the west, who
are five miles distant. It was, built in 1790, has excellent walls,
roof, seats, and galleries, but still requires flooring of wood or stone
and an enclosure. It affords accommodation for lOOO sitters and, as in
other country parishes, the accommodation is free. The manse was
built 126 years ago, and underwent some repairs when the church
was built. It has lately undergone a thorough repair, and been
enlarged by an addition of two excellent rooms. The glebe con-
sists of 13 Scotch acres; amounting in value to nearly L.18 per
annum. The stipend ir 16 chalders, one-half barley, the other
meal, payable at the rate of the county fiars, and varies from L.200
to L.300 a-year.
	There is one meeting-house erected at Rigg by members of the
Associate Synod.
	The people are not very remarkable for their regular attendance
at church; on an average there are 400 communicants. The
church collections amount to L.30 a-year, and L.15 more may
be received for other religious and charitable objects.
	Education.--There are two schools with equal salaries of L.25
attached to them both commodiously situated. A new school and
dwelling-house for the schoolmaster has been lately erected at
Gretna village, and may be regarded as a pledge of the future li-


