
     Statistical Account

Sterling.  The real rent is L.2070 Sterling.  Services
from the tenants are almost totally abolished.  The princi-
pal estates in the parish are freeholds.  The lesser estates
hold of the Duke of Argyle, to whom is paid a small feu-
duty.  The parish is divided among 11 heritors; 6 of whom
reside.  The other have their residence close in the neigh-
bourhood.-  Donald Maclachlan, Esq; one of the Faculty of
Advocates in the Scotland, is principal heritor.  His predeces-
sors lived in a castle, which is still standing.  It is large
building, nearly square.  The height of the walls is 47 feet
3 inches.  Its greatest length is 72 fett 4 inches. It is 
not precisely known when Castlelachlan was built.  It is
tradition regarding it is, that it was built by a lady at a
time her husband, the laird, was abroad, serving in one of
the crusades.  Mr Maclachlan seems resolved to keep the
castle in such repair as it was in when he succeeded to it;
but finding it inconvenient for a family residence, he has
just now built a good modern house close by the castle.
This house is situated in the middle of a plain, by the side
of a small river.  It fronts Lochfine, of which it commands
a view for several miles.  The hills, which have an unbro-
ken surface and gentle slope, more than half sorround the
house, and shelter it from every wind, excepting the south-
west.  Certain spots on the declivity of the hills are plant-
ed with forest-trees; some of which are already in great
forwardness.  The variety of shades between them, and the
natural wood will have a very fine effect in beautifying the
place, which, for its extent, is much admired.  Mr Mac-
lachlan's estate lies in one continued stretch on the side of
Lochfine.  It is 11 miles in length, and at an average a
mile and an half in breadth.  His house is about the centre.
The farms on the estate mostly border on Lochsine.  The
tenants houses are nigh the shore, where they have their a-
rable grounds; their pasture lands reach to the summit of the


