
	186                       ELGINSHIRE.

	efforts of Mr Playfair's calassical taste, was built in 1829. A con-
	siderable addition is now in course of being made, which, when
	completed, will greatly increase the accommodation, without, per-
	haps, detracting from the effect of the original structure. It stands
	on a terrace about 130 yards from the Divie, and 26 feet above it.
	From its south-west front, the eye, after passing over the interven-
	ing lawn, naturally glides along the beautifuly wooded western
	bank of that river, and through the vale of the Dorbach, till the
	view is terminated by the summit of the Knock. About 170 yards
	from its north-dast front rises the nearer of two tiers of terraces,
	at the northern extremity of the higher and more distant of which
	is the hill on whose summit the old castle stands, and which ap-
	pears over the tops of the intervening trees and shrubberies, and
	between the wood of the adjacent banks, "majestic in ruins." On
	the higher of these terraces, which stretches from the southern
	base of the castle-hill, is the garden, which is most tastefully and
	elegantly laid out, as are the whole of the flower-plots and shrub-
	beries which ornament that beautiful valley. The dreadful ra-
	vages committed there by the floods of 1829 have been amply re-
	paired ; and, from the immense strength of the embankments
	which have been made, no encroachments of the river in that
	quarter, at least beyond the flat fields on its right bank, may any
	longer be apprehended.
	   The House of Relugas was considerably enlarged and improved,
	about fourteen years ago, by an addition consisting of a very hand-
	some suite of apartments, 96 feet in length, with an arched vesti-
	bule projecting from the centre. The house presents a most
	beautiful picturesque appearance from various directions, and ad-
	mirably harmonizes with the delightfully romantic scenery of its
	pleasure-grounds, and the surrounding country.
	   The mansion-house of logie stands at the northern extremity
	of the valley of that name, on the right bank of the Findhorn; but
	no alterations have been made on it, deserving of notice, since the
	Iast Statistical Account was published.
	   A very handsome shooting lodge, consisting, of eight apartments,
	belonging to the Honourable John Stuart, and generally occupied
	by him and other members of the Noble family of Moray for se-
	veral weeks of the shooting season, was erected three or four years
	ago the north-west base of the Knock, on the right bank of the
	Dorbach, and about three miles above its junction with the Divie.

                                         4


