
		     LOGIE-COLDSTONE.                          1071

	The figure of the parish is extremely irregular. It is bounded
on the south, by the parishes of Glenmuick and Aboyne; on the
west, by Glenmuick; on the north, by Strathon, Tarland, and
Towie; and on the east, by Tarland, Coull, and Aboyne.
         Topographical Appearances.-On the west side of the parish a
range of steep and high hills runs the whole distance, among which
Morven stands conspicuous, comnmanding a view to the cast as far
as the eye can reach. On the north, the hills rise more gradu-
ally, and are less elevated.
         Climate.-The climate of this parish, with the exception of that
part which lies on Deskry-ride, is tolerably mild, equable, and sa-
lubrious, and must become still more so from the extent of drain-
age which is taking place, and from the additional shelter which
will be afforded by the plantations made and making.
         Hydrography.-There are numerous springs in the parish, but
the only one which has attracted the particular notice of the
inhabitants, is a powerful chalybeate, which arises in a planta-
tion a little south from the church, and seems to have acquired its
Gaelic nameof Poll-dubh, "black mire," from pouring its water
into a small mossy hollow within a few yards of its source. It is
occasionally resorted to by some for the benefit of their health,
and by others for amusement.
	One of the lochs alluded to as still subsisting in the district is
partly in this parish. It is called Lochdawan, (supposed to be a
corruption of the Gaelic Loch d'abhainn, "lake of two waters,")
and is about two and a half or three miles in circumference.
	There is a small circular pond upon an elevated part of the farm
of Nether Ruthven, which bears the name of Lochan-uaine, "the
green pool or lakelet," from the peculiar colour of the water. The
water of this pond has never been analyzed with a view to disco-
ver its colouring ingredients or particular qualities. Though
seemingly of a very impiire nature, the cattle upon the farm are
said to prefer it to any other.
	The only stream of running water of any magnitude connected
with the parish is that of Deskry, which forms a boundary line for
same distance betwixt it and Strathdon. The other rivulets in
the parish, in common with those of the whole district of Cromar,
discharge their water into the river Dee in the parish of Aboyne.
         Geology.-The granite formation prevails generally throughout
the parish; but the direction and dip of the strata and beds has
not been particularly attended to. No mines or ores of an de-


