
110                          ORKNEY.

as the horse showed some disinclination to go into it ; only,
one two-stilted plough, no inclosures, and both horses and cattle
were exceedingly small and trifling.  The latter have been much
improved by crosses from Dunrobin bulls, and are now equal to
the average show of cattle in Orkney. The horses are also greatly
improved in size and strength.  Enclosures are to be seen on every
side, completed or in progress.  Every house is furnished with a
neat and well-made plough, commonly of wood, but sometimes
also of iron-a valuable substitute, indeed, for the old one-stilted
shapeless thing they used before, which rather broke up the ground
than turned it over.  And a still greater advantage is derived from
the introduction of carts, with one or more of which every house
is now supplied.  Before, every thing had to be carried on horse-
back, either in sacks or in a sort of wooden creels, which they
used for bringing up their ware to the land, and such other articles
as could not be put into sacks.  In this way an immense deal of
time was lost, which they can now save and turn to good ac-
count.  So that, in an agricultural point of view, the island at
present stands upon a far better footing, than it did twelve years
ago.
   The only other thing to be noticed under this bead is the condition
of the sheep, which is just as bad as can well be conceived.
With the exception of a very few kept on the largest farm for
killing, they are all shut outby a high dike, which encompasses
the whole island to the mere shores, and a little bit of waste ground
left for them here and there.  Their sole food almost, is the sea-
weed that happens to be drifted ashore, and as this comes most
entifully during winter, that is their fattening season, es especially
before the cold weather of the new year sets in.  They are chiefly
kept for the wool, from which all that is worn in every-day cloth-
ing is manufactured ; but every house has a practice of killing one
on yule or Christmas eve which goes by the name of the yule
sheep.  And on the forenoon of that day, there is a great gather-
ing, at a certain place, of all the men and sheep in the island, for
the selection of the several victims.
   Fisheries.-The only fisheries that are carried on with a view
to the market, are those of lobster, herring, and cod.  In the
first, six boats, each having two men, are engaged every year from
about the beginning of May to the middle of June.  The fish are
sold to London Company, whose welled smacks call for them
regularly once a week, at a place about ten miles distant, in the


