
                          PERTH.                            85


gates appointed by the other burghs, made choice of the represen-
tative, the delegates acting of course in conformity with the in-
structions of their constituents.  By the Reform Bill the burgh is
entitled to choose a representative for itself.   He is chosen not by
the council, but by the whole population, within what is called the
Parliamentary bounds, who hold or retit a property of the value of
L. 10 yearly.  These bounds, as defined by the bill, are, "from
the north-western corner of the North Inch, on the right bank of
the river Tay, in a straight line to the bridge on the mill-lead at
the boot of Balhousie; thence in a straight line to the bridge in
the Glasgow road over the Scouring Burn; thence in a straight line
to the southern corner of the water reservoir of the depot; thence
in a straight line to the southern corner of the Friartoun pier in
the river Tay, (passing to the south of the Friartoun Island,) to
the point at which the same is met by the boundary of the respec-
tive properties of Kinfauns, Kinnoul, and Barnhill meet; thence
in a straight line to the north and eastern corner of Lord Kinnoul's
lodge, at the gate of approach to Kinnoul Hill; thence in a straight
line to the north-eastern corner of the enclosure of the Lunatic Asy-
lum; thence in a straight line to the point at which the Annaty
burn crossds the Blairgowrie road; thence down the Annaty burn
to the point at which the same joins the river Tay; thence in a
straight line to the point first described."
   Laurence Oliphant, Esq. of Condie, was the first whom the burgh
constituency elected to represent them in Parliament.  The election
was on the 27th day of December 1832.  He was elected a se-
cond time in 1834.*
   Modern Buildings.-Of these the most worthy of being here
noticed is the Bridge over the Tay,-built 1771, Mr Smeaton, ar-
chitect,-cost L. 26,631, 12s. 5 3/4d.  The Barracks, originally in-
tended for cavalry, now fitted up for infantry,-built 1793.-The
Depot, a military prison, erected by Government for the reception of
French prisoners, capable of containing 7000 men-built 1812,
cost L. 130,000.  St Paul's Church, built 1807-cost about
L. 7000.  The academy and Public School Buildings, erected 1807
cost about L. 6000, Mr Burn, architect.-Theatre, t built 1820,

<FOOTNOTE>Before the Union, Perth sent a Commissioner to Parliament.
          This place of amusement has fallen very much into disrepute.  Few inbabitants
Of any respectability frequent it.  Prices of admission have been lately lowered, not to
the improvement of the morals ofthe place for that has brought to it ihe lowest and the
most questionable characters of society.  A correspondent of the Pdrth Constitutional
Newspaper, Dec. 21, 1836, identifies the multitude of its frequenters with the baser
sort wh squander their means in tippling-houses.


