
320                      ARGYLESHIRE.

              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

 It is said that the Druids had possession of Iona before the birth
of our Saviour,-that they had there a college or school of theolo-
and continued to flourish until their expulsion by Columba.
 The most authentic history of Columba is that written bv
Adomnan, who was preceptor to Eugenius VI., and was likewise
Abbot of Iona in 665, being the fourth abbot in succession from
Columba, and that, only sixty-seven years after his death. His
history was first published by Canisius from a manuscript pre-
served in a monastery in Bavaria, and since republished by Bas,
nage. He is likewise mentioned by Bede, and allowed to be au-
thentic by Usher.
 Columba was certainly a man of much piety and goodness of
heart; and his manners, althuogh austere, were well calculated
for the people of the age in which he lived. He had been the
disciple of St Patrick ; was of royal extraction, being the son of
Felim, the son of Fergus, who was grandson to the celebrated
Niall of the nine hostages, supreme monarch of Ireland. His
mother was Aitbne, the daqghter of Macnave, and he was nearly
related to Conal, King of the Dairiad Scots, who, by some, is
styled the fifth King of Argyle. From this, and from the autho-
rity of his character, be possessed great power and influence in
both kingdoms. He was born in Ireland in 521, and educated
under Finian, Bishop of Clonard, Fetibar, Gemman of Leinster,
and the far-famed St Ciaran ; and, when he was about twenty-
eight years of age, be founded the monastery of Dairmeagh, in
Ireland.
 This remarkable man, in the forty-second year of his age, left
Ireland in or about the year 563, with the noble and generous
intention of dissipating the ignorance which then covered the He-
brides, and was accompanied by twelve followers, whose names
are given by various authors.
 According to the annals of Ulster and of Tighernac, Iona was
given to Columba by Conal, or Conval, son of Comgal, King of
the Dairiad Scots or Picts. But there ought to be some very
powerful reason for rejecting the express testimony of Bede, who
was so well versed in the history of this monastery, especially as
Adamnan nowhere asserts that this island was the gift of the Dal-
riadic Prince. Dr Jamieson, hovever, supposes, that, as it lay
in the confines of both kingdoms, it might possiblv be claimed by
both and what the one sovereign had given, the other might
pretend to confirm.


