
     Statistical Account

15 heads of families connected with the Secession, making
in all, with their families, about 78 persons, but many
of their families attend upon the parish church*.

   Poor.-The average number of poor upon the session
roll is about 12.  They are supplied by the collections
made on Sunday, together with the interest of a small
fund of about 50 L., without any assessment.  They
generally get from 2 s. to 4 s. the month, and one 5 s.
Sometimes also families, when they are in distress, re-
ceive occasional supplies as they need.  But none of
those who receive from the session are allowed to beg.

   Diseases.-The most common disease I have observed
since I came to this parish, appears to be the consump-
tion, occasioned not so much by the constitution of the
inhabitants, as by the coldness and dampness of the
houses.  The bad state of the houses often brings on
colds upon those that are young and tender, which, if
not speedily removed, ends in a consumption.  It is not
unfrequent also for old people, when confined much to
their house, and unable to take that exercise which is
proper for the circulation of the blood, to be troubled

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The wages of an ordinary ploughman are 8 L. in the year, and some
of them 10 L.  They have risen very considerably of late.  A woman
servant 3 L. in the year, and as much ground as follow half a peck of lint-
seed in the summer halt year.  A labouring man used to be hired at 6 d.
a day, and his meat; but now they ask 8 d.  As there is no market-town
m the parish, the price of v vres is always regulated by Falkirk, which
is the nearest market-town, and about 5 miles distant-There is plenty
of fuel in the parish, both coal and peat; but peat is most generally used,
as every person hath commonly a light to some moss connected with the
lands he possesses, or pays only 1 s. for as many as he can cast in a day.
The Carron Company, who work some pits in the parish, supply the
country with all the coal they need, though most, of the heritors hat-
coal in their own lands.

</UNREADABLE>


