
                             KIRKMICHAEL.                     789

      Roman Catholic family. Stipend, L. 150. Glebe, in extent 5
      acres arable, and 1 1/2 of pasture.
        The manse is at present in tolerably good condition, and was
      built in the year 1818.
        Education.-There are two parochial schools; one in the vil-
      lage of Kirkmichael, and the other in Glenshee. As the valleys
      of Strathardle and Glenshee, which run nearly parallel, compose
      the parish, and the parochial schools are situated at the west or
      upper end, an additional school is required near the eastern ex-
      tremity in Strathardle. The first teacher has the maximum sa-
      lary; the second L. 15 yearly. The first has about L. 15, the
      second about L. 10 yearly of fees. The first has L. 15, the se-
      cond L. 2 a-year from other sources.
        Poor.-The number on the roll is about 12, exclusive of two
      lunatics, whose maintenance requires about L.30 annually. They
      receive about 2s. per week. About L. 88 annually is the amount
      contributed for their relief; whereof about L. 42 is from church
      collections and L. 4 for mortcloth and hearse. Thd heritors have
      hitherto voluntarily contributed what is required in addition to the
      ordinary funds. There is a sum of L.8, 8s., being the interest of
      a capital sum of L.220, bequeathed by Messrs M'Dougall, Bruce,
      and Lyons; also L.200, bequeathed by the late Patrick Dow to
      the poor not on the pauper-roll, to be under the management of
      the kirk-session. There are also two mortifications; one yielding
      L.17 a-year, bequeathed by a Mr Stewart, for the education of
      boys of the name of Stewart at the schools of Kirkmichael, Glen-
      sheet and Drumfork; and another, yielding, about L. 20 a-year,
      mortified by the late Patrick Dow, Esq., for establishing bursaries
      in favour of young men educated at the parish school of Kirk-
      michael, failing which, at the adjoining parish school of Moulin.
      The University of St Andrews is directed to be preferred.

        December 1842.


