
	              		 MUCKAIRN.                          517

signifies "the lake of swans," and hence, in the armorial bearings
of the family, a swan forms, appropriately enough, one of the sup-
porters.
	The Luachragan and Lusragan, the one so called, as the names
in Gaelic import, from the profusion of rushes, the other from the
kerbage on their banks respectively, are next in dimensions to the
Lonan. The Luachragan intersects a good part of the parish;
and both flow from south to north, the one failing into the'sea,
about the centre of the parish, and the other at its western bound-
ary, a little above Connall. On what earthly ground, mere cour-
tesy apart, either of these insignificant streams should be dignified
with the name of river, ordinary ingenuity must be at a loss to dis-
cover.
	The principal lakes are the Lochandow to the west,-a chain of
lakes not less than two miles in length, abounding in reeds, but
well stocked with trout; and Loch Naunt to the east, scarcely half
the extent of the other.
		             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Exclusive of the MSS. already referred to, there are no ancient
or modern accounts of the history of the parish, nor have there
been any historical events of importance within the memory of
man. With the exception of the farm of Achnacloich or Stone-
field, part of the estate of Campbell of Braegleen, in the parish
of Kilninver, the whole of the district of Muckairn is the property
of Campbell of Lochnell, having nearly a century ago been pur-
chased by that family from Campbell of Calder.
	Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry is in 1760.  These
registers have been kept irregularly during the greater part of that
time; more recently there has been an improvement in this respect.
	Antiquities.-There are not many objects here which claim the
attention of the antiquarian. During the reign of popery, there
were several religious buildings within the district, more than
enough, indeed, to put to shame that cold and criminal indiffer-
ence as to the worship of God and divine things generally, which
has characterized later times, though it is to be hoped a better
day begins to dawn. Near the western boundary of the parish, we
have Kilvarie, i. e.the burial ground or church of Marie, or the
Virgin Mary. About a mile north-east of this is Kilmaronag, "the
Church dedicated to Maronag, "selected also as the patron saint of
another church in Dumbartonshire, which gives its designation to
the parish there of that name; and we have, besides, near the east-


