
                     CATHCART.                            497

springs which formerly existed have disappeared, more especially
in the vicinity of coal mines, which in all probability have either
interfered with their flow or reached their source. The river
Cart, which rises in the hills above Eagglesbam, flows through the
parish, passing into Eastwood at Pollokshaws, and receiving in its
course a few small tributary rills, but augmented in a much higher
proportion by the drains, both open and covered, which the pro-
prietors, in the praiseworth spirit of agricultural improvement,
have made to pour into it on every side.  It is said at one time to
have abounded with trout, but their number is now very much di-
minished, and this diminution is attributed partly to the general
use of lime in husbandry, and partly to the diligence of poachers
in the faithful prosecution of their calling. The waters contri-
bute much to the industrial resources of the inhabitants, as they
keep no less than four public works in constant operation. In the
former Statistical Account of this parish, mention is made of a
stream falling into the river a little above the old bridge, and having
a petrifying power upon vegetable substances. The writer has
never been able to ascertain its existence, nor even to discover
any tradition regarding it.
   Geolagy.-It is unnecessary to enter into any minute account
of the geological character of the parish, which is exactly similar
to that of those around it.  Cathcart covers part of the great coal
basin, which extends from the trap hills of Campsie on the north
to those of Cathkin on the south. Mines of coal and lime have
frequently been worked with success, although there are none at
present in operation. There is abundance of ironstone of the very
best quality on the estate of Linn, and probably in other places,
which is likely ere long to turn to the good account of the pro-
prietor, in consequence of the number of blast-furnaces which have
recently been erected in the immediate vicinity of the parish.  At
Croashill there is a large quarry of excellent freestone, which is
regularly contributing to the ornament of Glasgow, and to the
comfort of its inhabitants.  Minerals of various kinds are to be
found in the channel of the Cart, a valuable collection of which,
made by Lord Greenock in this and the parishes adjoining, has
been presented by his Lordship to the Hunterian Museum, con-
nected with the College of Glasgow.
   Zoology, Botony and Soil.-The parish abounds in hares of a
very large size; and of late, to the terror of all who wish well to
agriculture, rabbits have made eir appearance Foxes are too

