
     Statistical Account

is true, indeed, that the Committee of the Royal Bounty
sometimes granted a little for their relief; and the same is
continued just now, but the further continuance of it is un-
certain and precarious.  The Society for Propagating Chri-
stian Knowledge, since the late increase of their funds, have
been often solicited and importuned to extend the benefit
of their institution to that remote corner, that stands so much
in need of it, and so well deserves it, by the exertions made
by the people, beyond their abilities, to support the means
of instruction among them.  But all hitherto has been to no
purpose.  Yet there are millions established by the said So-
ciety in other places, which do not so much need them.
However, it is still hoped, that this desirable object will be
obtained, as soon as the Honourable Society will have a
proper view of the utility and necessity of it.  Here, it
should be observed, that an excellent dwelling-house was
very lately built by subscription, in order to encourage the
missionary, and to assist the people, and with the prospect
that a perpetual mission was to be established there*.

   Schools.-There are two schools in the parish, a parochial
and a Society one.  As to the former, it is always throng
of scholars, and is taught by an excellent master; but the
smalless of the salary, which is but a trifle more than L. 6,
and the want of proper accommodations for teaching, are
mighty hinderances and discouragements.  There grie-
vances were represented, last year, to Sir John Sinclair, who
immediately gave powers to the minister to get the accom-
modations of a school-house and desks as soon as possible, in
the first place, and that he would pay his quota of the ex-
pence on demand; and this he would have done, but some
of the heritors refused to contribute their share, which
would be but very trifling, and so the matter stands, which

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since the above was written, Sir John Sinclair has procured a mission
for the two parishes of Halkirk and Latheron, from the Society.


