
     Statistical Account

consisted of stools, pots, wooden cogs and bikkers.  At
their meals, they ate and supped altogether out of one
dish.  They lived in a coarse and dirty manner, and ate of
the meanest and coarsest food.  In general, their food
consisted of brose, pottage, oat-meal slummery, and
greens boiled in water with a little salt.  The
dishes out of which they fed were seldom washed af-
ter meals, and of course, were often thick with dirt.  Each
person in the family had a short hafted spoon made of horn,
which they called a munn, with which they supped, and
carried it in their pocket, or hung it by their side.  They
had no knives and forks, but lifted the butcher meat they
ate with their fingers.  They ate little meat at that time
excepting the off-falls of their flocks, which died ei-
ther by poverty or disease.  At Martinmas they killed an
old ewe or two, as their winter provision, and used the
sheep that died of the braxy in the latter end of autumn.
At this time their farms had no match fences to separate
them from their neighbours.  A single farm was let in
runrig among a number of tenants, which caused them to
live in a constant state of warfare and animosity.  The
dividing the produce of the farm, according to each tenant's
share, became a usual source of quarrels and fighting.
   Their mode of agriculture was uncommonly stupid in
every stage of the operation.  They yoked 6 oxen and
2 horses in one plough, and sometimes 8 oxen and 2 horses.
They yoked 4 horses a-breadth in a plough without oxen,
and had always one to hold the plough, and another to
drive the cattle.  They used a heavy clumsy Scots plough,
that murdered the weak and half starved animals to drag it
after them.  Their harrows were heavy and clumsy, with
the teeth made of wood instead of iron.  In the spring sea-
son their horses and oxen fell down in the draught through
perfect poverty and weakness.  They ploughed great quan-
tities of the land, and had poor returns for their labour.

     I


