
114			   AYRSHIRE.

of accommodation, and it is hoped that some plan will be adopted
to remedy this evil. Built nearly at the eastern extremity of the
parish, the church is rather inconveniently placed to a great part
of the population. This, however, has not hitherto prevented
even the most distant from giving a regular attendance.
  The manse and office-house were built about forty years ago,
and underwent a complete repair in 1833, when an addition was
made to the manse. The extent of the glebe is about 9 acres,
which may be valued at about L. 20.
   The stipend previously agreed upon between the heritors and
the present incumbent, as awarded by the Court of Teinds in Ja-
nuary 1835, for crop 1834 thereafeter, is sixteen chalder of
victual, half meal and half barley, with L. 10 for communion ele-
ments.
   The first miniters recored in the session books of the parish is
the Rev. John Blythe. He succeeded Mr Fergushill/f* on the 27th

<FOOTNOTE>The following memoranda, respecting the late Rev. John Fergushill, were sent to
by me W. J. Duncan, Esq. of Glasgow.
   "He was the son of David Fergushill, a merchant at, and for some time provost
of, Ayr; and of Janet Kennedy, the sister of near relation of Hugh Kennedy, pro-
vost of Ayr; the same excellent person whom Livingston mention in this Charac-
teristic, John Fergushill received the first part of this accademical education at the
University of Edinburgh, where he remained for three years, but the plague having
caured a tempor`ry interruption of his studies, his father resolved to send him to
France to be educated at the Protestant Academy of Montauban, where the well-
known Robert Boyd of Troching was then a professor.
  "His father's wish was, that his studies should be superintended by Boyd, who was
his relation or connection; but I have not been able to ascertain whether he ever en-
tered upon his education there. He appears to have resided for some time with Gil-
bert Primrose, the minister of the Protestant Church at Bourdeaux, but as the
plague reached that place in the early part of the next year, (1605) he probably de-
termined on returning to Scotland. By a letter to Boyd dated September 1650, we find
him residing at home. For several years after this period, he seems to have remained
in great uncertainly, as to the course which he should adopt, having, on the one hand,
the opportunity of following out his father's business of a merchant, and, on the
other, the desire to study for the ministry, which seems to have been in a great de-
gree rendered impossible by the weakly state of his constitution. In December
1608, he wrote to Boyd, requesting his advised; from his letter it appears that his
health had so much improved that he was able to prosecute his education, but a dif-
fidence of his own ability for the profession which he had solong desired, still haras-
sed him, and kept him in doubt. I do not know what answer Boyd returned, or by
what means Fergushill resolution was ultimately fixed. His name appears twice in
the register of matriculation of the University of Glasgow, first in March 1605, and
second in 1611. About three years afterwards, (July 31, 1616,) the presbytery of
Glasgow ordanit that Messrs John Haye, Thomas Boyde, Jhome Fergushill, for
their farther qualification befoir admissione to ye holie minister suld mak ane
lang lessoune upone some place of Scripture, and sustain the disput upon some con-
trevertet heid, and Fergushill had for his stbject, 2 Cor, 1. 12 his contreversie,
De bonis Operidus. On September 11, 1616, it is recorded that these made thair
Lattein lessouns upon the text befoir prescribed. From this period I have met with
no notice of Fergushill till march 1620, when, as minister of Ochiltree, he was cited
before the Court of High Commission, at Glasgow, for non-conformity to the Perth
articles. He declined the jurisdiction of the court, and was suspended and senteced to
confinement within the town of Perth, but, by the good office of Trochrig and Mr


