
                        LAGGAN.                                421

therefore, is unavoidably late;  and the grain is late in ripening.
Frost in August and September frequently occurs, and destroys
the potatoes and corn crops. This was the case in the last three
years, not merely in Laggan, but through the whole of Badenoch.
The writer has heard people say that they remembered years, when
a chalder of oats would not in the mill yield a boll of meal, from
the ravages of frosts and mildews.
   Geology.-This subject, as far as we know, has never been
fully investigated in reference to this parish. The chief rocks be-
long to the gneiss formation, of which many interesting varieties
are met with. We have an excellent bed of limestone that runs
through the centre of the parish. Slate of inferior quality is also
found; but since the Parliamentary road was opened to Fort-Wil-
liam,.this kind of slate is seldom used,-Ballaebullish slate being
reckoned far superior to it.
   Zoology.-Salmon, sometimes in summer, and always in the
season of spawning, come up even as far as Loch Spey. There
are some fine small trouts in the rivulets and burns. But the vo-
racious pikes, which are very plentiful in the deep pools of the
river Spey, and the no less voracious otter, which is everywhere,
are destructive foes to all kind of fish. Black-cock, grouse, and
partridges, and hares, are plentiful on the moors and low grounds.
Ptarmigan are found on the tops of the high hills. We have
been sometimes visited with wild swans and geese. Wild ducks
are abundant. The summer always brings the swallow and the
cuckoo. The mountain-deer and timid roe are found in the se-
questered glens. Besides these and some others, we have foxes,
polecats, wild cats, weasels, ravens, hawks, owls, and eagles, not-
withstanding that, for many years, fox-hunters, gamekeepers, and
shepherd, have waged a war of extermination against the whole
tribe.
   Wood.-The natural wood is birch, alder, hazel, willow: the
pl`nted, Scotch fir, birch,-with some other hard-wood, of late
years, planted around Cluny Castle.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY
   Land-owners.-We have four heritors in the parish, namely,
James Evan Baillie, Esq. of Kingussie; Ewen  Macpherson, Esq.
of Cluny Macpherson; Major Macpherson of Glentruim; and
John Walker, Esq. of Crawfordtown and Lochtreig. Mr Baillie-
is the principal heritor. Cluny Macpherson resides in the parish,


