
   			LEWIS-STORNOWAY.                          125

way, there is scarcely anything like a tree seen, except a few wil-
lows in gardens, and even these become stunted when they overtop
the wall.  The greater part of the island seems to have been wooded
in ancient times, as roots of trees are dug out of tbe moss ; hazel
nut shells are found, when the people cut their peats, at the depth
of 14 feet.  According to tradition, the Norwegians, to monopolize
the timber trade, had set all the wood on fire, when they landed in
the North Hebrides.  But another account is more probable, which
bears, that, when the invaders were often surprised by the natives
lying in ambush and sallying forth upon them, they burnt the woods
that they might see their opponents at a distance in open field,
and attack them in aperto loco.

		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The historians who have given any account of the island of
Lewis and of Stornoway, are Dean Monroe, Spottiswood, Martin,
James M'Donald, A. M., and finally, Macculloch, though severe
yet true.
   Maps, plans, and surveys of the parish are in the possession of
Mr S. M'Kenzie.
   Tradition relates that, in the chapel at Ui, eighteen lairds of
M'Leod, the original possessors of the island, were buried under
one stone.  William Earl Seaforth lies there interred.
   Eminent Men.- Two eminent characters were born in this
parish,- Sir Alexander M'Kenzie of Avoch, celebrated for his
travels and discoveries in the continent of North America; and
Colonel Colin M'Kenzie of the East India Company's service,
distinguished by his voluminous writings, still in manuscript, and
his researches into the antiquities of India. The latter left
L. 30,000 to Miss Mary M'Kenzie Cam, his sister, who at her
death bequeathed to the poor of Stornoway the interest of L. 140,
-leaving, besides, L. 300 to help to build a female school in
Stornoway.  She left her house and plate to Murdo M'Kenzie,
Esq. Calcutta, a young man who, by perseverance, industry, and
attention to business, was enabled, in a few years, to retire with a
comfortable independence, and now resides in Stornoway with his
lady, assisting many families and relatives.
   From this parish,. went forth to different quarters of the globe,
several young men of respectable talents, some preachers and lay-
men, who filled reputable stations in society and by their conduct
reflected honour on their native isle.
   Land-owner.-The only land-owner in the parish is James A.


