

                           SANDWICK.                           63

destroyeth much good," it is to be feared the contaminated atmo-
sphere was not only destructive to their bodily health, but to their
moral, purity. The same objections, however, do not apply to it
as conducted at present in their own houses, where it has a ten-
dency to introduce neatness and cleanliness; but it is a serious ob-
jection, that the whim of a London lady may render, it unfashion-
able to appear under a thatch of straw, and thus at once throw-
destitute 3000 Orcadian damsels.
  The manufacture of kelp is not of great importance here now,
only about eight tons are made,-and it neither affords much em-
ployment nor profit.

		V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  There is no town or village in the parish, but the centre is only
about five miles from Stromness, and about fifteen from Kirkwall.
  Our letters pass through the Stromness post-office; and the
length of made-road from the centre of this, to join that in Strom-
ness parish, is two miles.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is placed about 100
yards from the bay at the west side, and about five miles from the
other extremity,-a situation which is most inconvenient for all the
population, except the few in that neighbourhood, the nearest cot-
tage being nearly a mile distant. As this church was built so late-
ly as 1836, partly on the foundation of the former one-it is my
duty to relieve the presbytery of the bounds, and the minister of
the awful responsibility of approving of such a site: for after the
principal heritors had petitioned the presbytery for a removal of
the church to a central situation, and that court bad cordially ap-
proved of a measure so eminently calculated to promote the glory
of God, and salvation of souls, the opposition of the very person who
had written, and been most prominent in promoting that petition,
effectually defeated the arrangement.
  From this it is evident that presbyteries should be vested with
authority to fix on the proper sites for churches.
  Though so recently built, I cannot say that its present state of
repair is good, for being founded partly on the foundation of the
old church, and partly on soft sand, the wall cracked so far, that
the arch of a window came down, and that being rebuilt, it-bas again
cracked in such a manner, that it gives little prospect of durabili-
ty. It contains 564 sittings, which are not yet divided.  The
manse. was built in 1833.  The grebe consists of 43 1/3 acres, near
ly half of which used to be arable ground, and the rest poor pas-
ture, or waste land, which was let altogether for about L. 12.


