
              GLENCROSS.                              313

The claystone rests upon claystone tuff, with which it is often in-
termixed, and with which it perhaps alternates. The claystone
tuff has rather a remarkable appearance, and from the soft and
friable state in which it is found, (produced very much from the
action of the weather,) has been supposed by some to be volcanic
ashes. In this rock are to be found veins of conchoidal hornstone,
which passes into striped jasper, and has a very beautiful appearance,
The claystone tuff rests upon clinkstone porphyry, as was very dis-
tinctly shown when the great excavation was made for the founda-
tion of the embankment already described.
   Boulder stones, composed of quartz and chlorite, are found in
different places in the course of the water, and on the high grounds
in the Pentland range.*
   Soil.-There is a considerable variety of soil in this parish,
from the finest loam to gravelly and stiff clay. It is capable,
however, of bearing all kinds of crops, and seems to be well
adapted for potato and turnip husbandry. The inferior soils are
gradually becoming better, from the extensive draining now very
generally practised, and the abundant application of lime and
dung.
   Botany.-The common heaths and natural grasses prevail very
generally on the hill, and afford excellent pasture for sheep.
   Among the rarer plants found in the parish may be mentioned
Carex axillaris, Epipactis palustris, Primula farinosa, Aspidium
fragile.
   There are some beautiful specimens of Portugal laurel in the
garden at Loganbank, which have grown to a wonderful size;
and some fine large variegated hollies at Woodhouselee, some of
which are 35 feet in height, growing at an elevation of upwards
of 600 feet above the level of the sea.
   In the last Statistical Account, it is stated, "that there is a silver
fir at Woodhouselee, which is the oldest tree of its species in Mid-
Lothian, and has always been admired for its size and beauty. It was
planted in a dry soil in a garden, about the first year of the present
century. In March 1759, at four feet above the ground, it measured
7 feet 4 3/4 inches in circumference. In March 1793, at the same
height, it measured 11 feet 1 4/5 inches. During these, thirty-three
years, it, therefore, increased in circumferences 45 inches. Its

<FOOTNOTE>For more detailed descriptions of the Pentland Hills, see Professor Jameson's
account in the Memoirs of the Wernerian Society, and the late Mr Cunningham's
Geology of the Lothians, and Mr Maclaren's volume also on the Geology of the Lo-
thians.


