
                  	ISLAND OF SKYE-PORTREE.              221

   and the largest not above a mile long.  With the exception of
   one, they all abound with trouts,--the fish of which is most nutri-
   tious and agreeable to the taste.  Round and about the edges or
   borders, the water is quite shallow.  Towards the centre, they are
   supposed to be of very considerable depth.
      The scenery all around these lakes and their vicinity, is most
   romantic and beautiful.  In some laces, they are surrounded with
   high and perpendicular rocks; in other places, as in Rasay, they
   are fringed with clumps of natural wood, and from them may be
   seen the grand, the picturesque hills of Cullins, in the parish of
   Bracadale, and Store, in the parish of Snizwrt, so much, of late
   years, a subject of admiration to travellers and scientific persons.
   From a lake in Rasay in a clear day may be seen all the hills
   on the mainland of this parish, and to the point of Hunish, and all
   the expanse of sea betwixt and the Island of Lewis.  The rivers in
   this parish are not of considerable magnitude.  They take their
   source from fresh-water lakes situated in the interior of the pa-
   rish, or in a neighbouring parish; and in time of heavy rain,
   which, in this quarter, is of no rare occurrence, they receive a
   vast addition to their body of water, from rain failing on the high
   bills, rushing down the sides with amazing rapidity, and overflow-
   ing their usual channels and banks.  These streams, meeting
   with obstructions in their descent from rocks, stones, and other
   superficial inequalities, often spread over a great portion of a bill,
   and, as they proceed, foaming and purling in all directions, they
   form one of the grandest scenes imaginable.
      All the rivers in this parish run in different directions, and
   discharge themselves into various arms of the sea.  The only
   cascade worth mentioning, is that which falls from one of the
   lakes in the northern extremity of the parish, and is thrown from
   a projection of a rock many feet high ; and at the bottom of the
   rock, and betwixt the rock and the waterfall, several persons might
   walk abreast without being touched by the water in its fall.  There
   are other smaller cascades in the parish.
      Geology and Mineralogy.--About forty years ago, Lord Mac-
   donald, principal heritor of the parish, attempted to work a coal
   mine, in two different parts of the parish.  He was at the expense
   of getting a number of hands from the low country, experienced
   colliers; but, after repeated trials, from the smallness of the vein,
   and the great difficulty of working it, imbedded as it Was under high


