
                           EYEMOUTH.                           333

ligious purposes, the average amount of which may bestated at L. 5
per annum.
   The victual stipend of the parish of Eyemouth is 80 2/5 imperial
bolls of barley, (the boll being 3/4 of an imperial quarter,) 54 5/10
bolls of oats, and 18 9/10 of pease which, according to the average
of the last five years, amounts to about L. 150. There is no al-
lowance for communion elements. The teinds are exhausted.
The fishing boats belonging to Eyemouth pay each L. 1, 13s. 4d.
annually to the clergyman, and strangers are liable to pay half
teind, or a twentieth part of the produce of their fishing. This
may be collected to the extent of a thirtieth or less, and, in seasons
when the herring fishery was in a prosperous state, added consider-
ably to the value of the living.
   The manse is old and in bad repair, but is not inhabited by the
present incumbent, who in lieu of it has an allowance of L. 30 per
annum from the heritors. It ought to be mentioned, however,
that the heritors are perfectly willing to build a new manse when
required.
   The glebe extends to ton acres or thereby, and may be valued
at L. 30 per annum. *
   Education.-The number of schools in the parish is seven;
three of which are taught by men, and four by women. The
parish schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and the legal ac-
commodation. One of the private schools is maintained by indi-
vidual subscriptions, and the other by school fees. In the parish
school Greek, Latin, English, &c. are taught. The fee for En-
glish reading is 2s. 6d. per quarter, for writing, 3s. 6d. for arith-

<FOOTNOTE>Eyemouth does not seem to have ranked as a separate parish till the period of
the Reformation; previous to that era it was a chapelry dependent on the priory of
Coldingham; and this fact, taken in connection with its very limited extent; may ac-
count for the very slight notices of it which are contained in the chartularies of that
ancient establishment. Mr Alexander A. Carr, surgeon, Ayton, who is about to
publish a work on the Antiquities of Coldinghamshire, has favoured me with the fol-
lowing notice concerning the ecclesiastical state of this parish in former times.-"In
1295, Gilbert, the priest (presbyter) of Eimuth, subscribed a charter granted by Wil-
liam, Bishop of St Andrews, to the monks of Durham, &c.; and from that time
down to the Reformation, the names of its chaplains are occasionally met with in the
chartularies. During the fourteenth century, one of these rose to be Sacrist of Col-
dingham priory, an office next in rank to that of prior."
   The following notice, also furnished by him, may not inappropriately find a place
here.-"A rental of Coldingham, made up in 1501, which is preserved in the Advo-
cates' Library at Edinburgh, gives us a summary of the various ecclesiastical dues
paid to it by the neighbouring parishes. From this it appears that the town of Eye-
month paid yearly, (conjointly with a piece of land called Blackman's or Blackmain's
acre,) 42 shillings, 3 pennies, and 74 heads of poultry. The lands of Beanrig, held
in feu-farm by Sir Alexander Home of Manderstone, paid yearly 48 shillings and
4 pennies, with 7 fowls. The mill of Eyemouth, held by William Home of Pren-
derguest, contributed L. 6. Somehow or other the lands of Linthill are not rated in
the rental, unless they are taken conjointly with those of Highlaws, which paid 43
shillings and 4 pennies."


