
242                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the temperature of the atmosphere, although exceedingly variable,
seldom descends very low. No meteorological tables have been
kept in the pariah, whereby the changes of temperature and varia-
tions of climate might be stated with accuracy; yet, it may be as-
serted, generally, that the climate is very moist, rainy, and bois-
terous. The mercury in the thermometer seldom falls below 25,
or rises (with the exception, perhaps, of a few days in summer,)
above 76&deg; of Fahrenheit. The barometer, however, indicates
frequent and sudden changes in the pressure of the atmosphere.
The mercury, which generally stands at or near 29 1/2&deg;, has often
been observed to rise or fall more than half an inch in the course
of a day. The cold of winter is less intense, and the heat of
summer less oppressive than in most other parts of the kingdom.
Torrents of rain fall in all seasons of the year, and the moisture
which descends in the Highlands of Scotland, in the form of snow,
descends here, for the most part, in sleet and rain. For many
years, back, snow seldom lay on the ground above a day or two;
whereas, in former periods, severe snow storms were prevalent,
and generally of long duration. In this respect, the seasons, from
some unknown cause, have undergone a sensible change. Ow-
ing to the prevalence of dampness, and the moist nature of the
atmosphere, it is no easy matter to preserve polished iron, steel,
and other metals free from rust. Knives, fire-irons, and all such
utensils of polished metallic surfaces must be frequently rubbed
or brashed, otherwise they would rust in a single day, unless kept
in places heated by constant fires. The frequent rains of the
place can only be accounted for, from its vicinity and exposure to
the Atlantic, the exhalations of which, appearing in dark clouds,
are conveyed eastward by the westerly breeze, and are naturally
attracted by the hills and mountains of the Hebrides in general.
The most prevailing wind is the south-west; and, from the cause
already stated, it is generally attended with rain. This wind, by
sweeping across the western ocean, is necessarily saturated with
moisture; and, while it passes from a warmer to a colder climate,
naturally deposits its humidity on the first land which obstructs
its course. From the effects of this wind the hopes of the hus-
bandman are frequently blasted; and if it happen to prevail in the
ripening months of autumn, the fruits of his industry and labour
are in danger of being destroyed. Wind from the opposite quar-
ter, viz. north-east, though frequently cold, is for the most part
dry.


