
     of Callander.

from it, that the feudal system then prevailed in Scotland; be-
cause the charter, taking notice of a former resignation, says,
that it was made per fustim et baculum, which are the sym-
bols used in resignations at the present time*.-There is in
the farm of Achinlaich, a circular rampart, on the summit of
a rising ground, and in the vicinity of a deep chasm formed by
the burn of Kelty+.  This fortification is surrounded only by
a single ditch and mound of earth, and appears to have been a
place of no great security; were it not, that the adjacent
ground slopes from it in every direction, and that the wild glen
behind it, where the water can scarcely be seen, for projecting
rocks and hanging trees, afforded, at all times, a near and safe
retreat++.
   There is another fortification, of the same nature, on the
top of the Dun above Bochastle; except that it is of less ex-

<FOOTNOTE>

*This charter also proves, that the date of royal charters was not, in those
ages, ascertained by the year of God, but by the year of the king's reign;
which was the practice of the Jews, who referred to a particular year of the king's
reign, as well as of the Romans, who referred to the consulship of particular
persons; and likewise, that more ancient grants were, in the simplicity of these
ages, proved by the possession of particular relics; such as the gladius parvus,
which is of silver, having some hieroglyphic figures, probably descriptive of the
prowess of Gillespic Moir, on one side, and his name, in Gothic characters, on
the other.
+Kelty is a name given to rapid waters, in many parts of the world, and in
different languages.
   N. B. This name signifies the loss or destruction which these torrents, rising
so suddenly, bring on every creature, and every thing in their way.  Smooth
waters are never called Kelty.  There is a Kelty in Strathern, and another in
Abyssinia.
++If this fortification be of Danish construction, these rovers must have used
it for fear of the Caledonians, whose country they had invaded: for they seldom
suffered intruders to posses their lands quietly, or to leave them with impunity.
But if it was used by the natives, it was probably intended, not only to secure
their persons from insult, but their cattle from depredation; which purpose it
was well calculated, from its extent, to serve.


