
                  GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                     99


Gaelic is almost AniversalLY spoken; the English is unquestion-
ably gaining ground.
  The people are decidedly cleanly in their habits. Their cot-
tages although superior to those occupied by their forefathers,
certainly are not, in most instances, favourable to habits of clean-
liness.
   They  are a people of a superior intellectual east,-acute,
shrewd, and intelligent. They may also be considered a moral
people.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
  It is believed that very few acres, in the parish, indeed, could
be reclaimed with a profitable application of capital.
  Live.Stoch.-- Black-faced are the only sheep reared by our
graziers. A few Cheviots, Leicesters, and, in one instance, a small
parcel of South Downs, may be seen in the policies of some of our
proprietors. Every attention is paid to the cultivation or im.
provement of sbeep stock. The graziers are an intelligent class
of men, and grudge no outlay in improving their stocks.
  The Argylesbire is the most common breed of cattle. There
is only one fold of Ayrshire cows in the parish, although a few of
them are to be seen in every directions. Highland cattle are found
to pay better.  Young cattle pay better than butter and cheese.
  The river Urchay, which, by overflowing, its banks when in
flood, was wont to do a great deal of damaged is In course of being
embanked for a space of two miles at least. This embankment,
which is nearly finished-, has done a great deal of good. The
only place where irrigation is resorted to, is at Bunawe, and by the
Lorn Furnace Company. This is not, in any proper sense of the
term, an agricultural country ; and it is found that capital thus laid
out gives but a poor return. The bed of the river Awe, where it
flows out from the lake, was considerably lowered, and an im-
mense mass of stones, the accumulation of centuries, was removed,
allowing the water to escape with greater rapidity. This drainage
has done a great deal of good in different places along both sides
of the lake, hutmore especially to the low grounds along the banks
or the Urchay. The Urchay is in the course of being embanked
almost exclusively at the expense of the Noblia proprietor, the te-
nants by whom it is executed, being allowed a certain rate of
wages, when thus employed.
  Leasess, for some years back, have seldom exceeded nine years'
duration. The superior class of tenants are generally comforta-


