
368                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

preach thrice every week and to remain in no place more than
twenty days, till they had passed through the whole bounds of
their visitation. Mr Spottiswood is represented as a pious and
learned man, and possessed of singular endowments. Being a de-
scendant of the lairds of Spottiswood in the Merse, he was the
chief of that ancient family. His father's name was William. He
was distinguished for his military prowess, and fell at the battle of
Flodden Field. He himself was educated at the College of Glas-
gow and was designed for the Church. During his residence in
England, he became familiarly acquainted with Archbishop Cran-
mer, who confirmed him in his resolution of adhering to the study
of theology. Having returned to his own country, be obtained
an introduction, through the Earl of Glencairn, to Matthew, Earl
of Lennox, who afterwards employed him on a mission to Henry
VIII. of England; and, on his return to Scotland, being known
to Sir James Sandilands of Calder, at that time a person of great
authority, he was prevailed on to accept of the parsonage of Cal-
der, which, at the beginning of the Reformation, was then void.
1n 1560 he was appointed superintendent of Lothian, Merse, and
Teviotdale, the duties of which office be discharged during a pe-
riod of twenty years. In reality be exercised the powers and ful-
filled the duties of a bishop merely under a different name; for it
was not go much the office as the name to which the first Reform-
ers felt an aversion; and in the discharge of this sacred function
be continued, with the approbation of all good men, till the time
of his death, although his parishioners frequently complained in
vain that they were deprived of their pastor.
  Another still more eminent individual connected with this parish
was John Spottiswood, afterwards Archbishop of St Andrew's,
the superintendent's son. He was a native of this parish, and was
born in 1565; and, in 1585, he succeeded his father as minister
bf Calder-Comitis, having been employed as his father's assistant
when he was only eighteen years of age. In 1601, he attended
the Duke of Lennox as his chaplain on an embassy to the court
of Henry IV. of France; and, on the succession of James VI. to
crown of England, he was called to his service; and James
Beaton, Archbishop of Glasgow, dying, his Majesty not only pre-
ffered him to that see, but, on account of his great prudence and
distinguished talents in civil mattdrs, be admitted him to be one
of his Privy Council in Scotland; and in this capacity he was sent
to England, and appointed almoner to Queen Anne. At the time


