
                           PETERHEAD.                          361

   Improvements.-It may not be out of place here to mention
shortly the progressive improvements of the parish, and the means
by which they have been effected.  At the time of the last Sta-
tistical Account, the alternate system of husbandry had not been
adopted, and the state of agriculture had not been much improv-
ed for a very considerable period before.  The late James Fergu-
son, Esq. of Pitfour, was the first who introduced the alternate
system of husbandry.  He gave an example of the great benefit
resulting from good farming upon the estate of Balmoor, by drain-
ing, inclosing, dividing into regular fields, planting clumps of wood,
fallowing, liming, green-cropping, and laying out in grass. A con-
siderable part of this estate remains in grass, as laid out by Pit-
four, and returns high rents.  The estates of Peterhead, Clerk-
hill, Auchtygall, and Torterston, belonging to the Merchant
Maiden Hospital of Edinburgh, and the estates of Invernettie
and Boddam, were the next which began to be improved.  The
tenants were bound to a regular rotation of cropping, roads were
made, the old fences were levelled, open ditches and drains were
formed, hedges were planted, the old ridges levelled, and the
land divided into regular fields to answer the rotations agreed
upon.  The same means were resorted to upon the other estates
in the parish, and the fields soon exhibited a very improved ap-
pearance, and became of much greater value, both to the proprie-
tors and tenants.
   The improvements on the estates of the Merchant Maiden Hos-
pital have been extensive;-8851 ells of old feal dikes were
pulled down and levelled; 28,285 ells of open drains or ditches
have been cut; 11,146 ells of covered drains or sewers, built on
both sides, and covered with granite, were made; 26,900 ells of
double ditch and sunk or mound between the two ditches, plant-
ed with double hedges of hawthorn, and 3786 ells of double stone,
dikes have been formed and built; and 13,155 ells of roads have
been made for the accommodation of the tenants.
   While the already cultivated land was thus under progressive
improvement, the waste and (hitherto) uncultivated ground was
not neglected.  Considerable progress was made by trenching with
the spade and mattock, on the estate of Invernettie, and the other
estates in the parish; but this mode was too expensive to afford
a reasonable return for the capital expended.  It was afterwards
found that it was possible to improve these lands by the plough,
and this method was adopted very extensively on the estates of the


