
                            ARDERBIER.                        479

the stipend being only two chalders of victual, and some small vi-
carage tithes, worth 26 pounds Scots, at most, and two pounds Scots,
and no grass, he could not live on this. The same year he was
translated to Rosskeen.
   Alexander Falconer, ordained in 1718. In the Chanonry re-
cords are notices of sundry collections made during Mr Falconer's
incumbency; as for the distressed Protestants of Lithuania; for
the French Protestants; for the Scots congregation in New York;
for a bridge over the river Dee, by order of the General Assem-
bly; for the piers at Banff and Aberbrothick. In 1728, Gray of
Skiboll, and Gordon of Garty, were guilty of a violent outrage,
and were made to submit to public discipline in the church of
Ardersier, and to pay a fine of L.30. This year Mr Falconer was
translated to Ferrintosh.
   Duncan Macintosh ordained 1729, died in 1736.
   James Calder ordained 1737. In 1741, Mr Calder refused an
earnest call to Inverness. In 1747, he had a call from Kilmuir-
Wester, and another from Croy; he accepted the latter. On one
of these occasions, he declines the call on the ground of the inabi-
lity of the minister of Sgir an leth dusan, (the parish of the half-
dozen), to discharge, the duties of a large parish,
   The Laird of Calder presented Mr William Barron, minister
of Ardclach, to Ardersier, but the Presbytery of Forres refused
to translate him. In 1749, he presented Mr Daniel Brodie. In
1751, the glebe of Ardersier seems to have been removed on ac-
count of the grounds-required for the Fort. The following year
Mr Brodie is translated to Calder, on which occasion the laird
wishes to have Ardersier united to Calder; but the Presbytery re-
fuse their consent to the proposed union of the charges. It was
probably from the delay occasioned by the attempt to unite these
parishes, that no minister was settled in Ardersier till 1757, when
Mr Harry Gordon was ordained to the charge. The stipend at
this period hardly amounted to L.100 a-year, as we are told by
Major Pryse Gordon, son of the incumbent, in his Personal Me-
moirs and Reminiscences; but Mr Gordon was also chaplain to
the neighbouring garrison, for which he received a further remu-
neration of 15s. per week. Mr Gordon was succeeded in 1764
by Mr Walter Morison, the " Aristophanes of the North, " or
" the Witty Walter." Anecdotes of his wit, humour, and face-
tiousness, are still current in the district. From the records of
the Presbytery of Nairn, of date May 13th 1777, we give the fol-
ing extract: " There was laid before the Presbytery a petition to


