

           TWEEDSMUIR.                69


   The manse was built thirty-six years ago, and, along with the
church, has just been receiving estensive repairs.
   The glebe contains 9  acres and 17 falls Scots measure, of ex-
cellent quality, and may be worth L.20 Sterling per annum.
   The church, manse, and glebe are situated on a beautiful penin-
sula formed by the junction of Tweed and Tala.  The stipend is
14 chalders, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.  of va-
lued teind there is about L. 60, which is paid in money, without
conversion into meal and barley.  The last augmentation was ob-
tained in 1821, leaving the teinds unexhausted.
   The parishioners are all attached to the Established church, and
attendits services, with the exception of two individuals, who had been
brougth up in Secession principles at Peebles, and generally attend
a meeting-house at Biggar, though they frequently appear along
with their family at the parish church.  The communicants are
120, and, considering the scattered state of the population, and the
distance of many from the house of prayer, the usual attendance at
Divine ordinances is remarkably good.
   Education.-Besides the parish school, there are occasionally
two private teachers hired for the convenience of a few families at
a distance.  the branches taught in the parish school, besides the
ordinary ones, are geography, French, Latin, and Greek.  The sa-
lary is L.32 Sterling per annum; and school fees amount to about
L.12 more.  The legal accommodation of a dwelling-house is af-
forded.  The garden is only one-half of the legal allowance, but in
lieu of the other half, one boll of meal is granted.  For teaching
reading the master charges 8s., writing, 10s., arithmetic, 12s., Latin
and Greek, 14s per annum.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There was formerly a voluntary
assessment among the heritors, but at preset there is no assess-
ment of any kind.  The only support for the poor is derived from
the weekly collections at church,-the proceeds of mortcloth and
proclamations of banns.  The spririt of independence is very strong
among the people of this parish, and great aversion generally
felt to receiving aid from the poor-box, as it is called.  There is
at present only one pernsioner on the poors' funds, who receives
1s. 3d. per week.  Foreign mendicity annoys us greatly, and the
conveyance of cripples, &c. from hence to Moffat, on the one hand,
(fifteen miles) and to roughton, on the other (eight mile,)
forms, as might be expected, a very important item in our annual
expenditure.  The annual amount arising from all the usual sources




