
         134                        PERTSHIRE.

          ed in 1811 and 1819.  The commissioners are, the Lord Pro-
          vost, the Dean of Guild, and the four bailies, seven memberr of
          the guildry, and one member for each of the seven incorporated
          trades chosen by these bodies, according to certain statutory rules.
          The territory is divided into a certain number of districts and
          wards.  The power of the commissioners extends to paving, clean-
          ing, loaded carriages, gunpowder, &c. and the regulation of the
          market-places.  When any cause of complaint occurs, the matter
          is brought before the Lord Provost, or one of the bailies, by the
          procurator-fiscal of the city, or the police superintendent, or it is
          brought before the sheriff-depute of the county, or his substitutes,
          by the procurator-fiscal of the county, or the police superintendent.
          Power is given to commit to hard labour or solitary confinement,
          for a period not exceeding sixty days, and to impose a fine not ex-
          ceeding L.5.
             The bill of 1819 was obtained to amend and correct what was
          wrong and awanting in that of 1811. But still there is a material
          defect in the police establishment of the city.  In all criminal cases
          it is complete; but it is not so in those cases which affect the com-
          fort and safety of the inhabitants.  Whatever nuisance or obstruc-
          tion takes place in the streets may be found fault with by the su-
          perintendent, and complained of to the judge, but he is without au-
          thority to effect the removal of these, and punish the transgressor,
          by a summary procedure.  Recourse must be had at common law,
          vhich is at once tedious and expensive.  It is principally owing to
          this that those nuisances take place in the city, which occasion fre-
          quent and severe animadversions from strangers and others.  But
          neither the police magistrate nor the superintendent is to be blam-
          ed, but the bad construction of the bill.  It is essentially defee-
          tive and never will the peace, and comfort, and good order of the
          town be effectually secured till another be obtained, constructed
          upon a more comprehensive principle.
             Besides, the operation of the bill, such as it is, does not embrace
          sufficiently extensive bounds.  It extends very little beyond the
          royalty.  This is an evil of great magnitude.  The population without
          the royalty is fully greater than it is within, and there is no visible
          line of demarcation between the habitations in the one, place and
          those in the other.  It is the interest, therefore, of the whole com-
          munity, both, within and without burgh, to unite, without delay, and
          apply for a legislative enactment, extending the police establish-
          ment over the whole suburban population.  Hints may be most ad-


