
284                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

great quantity of excellent lime-rock. Caldronlee-quarry is trough-
shaped, and its line of bearing is westerly, i.v. the longitudinal
line of trough,--and the strata rise very suddenly both to the
north and south. It is in beds; and its thickness is about 30
feet. It rests upon slate-clay of a grayish colour, and the upfil-
ling of the trough is of the same kind of slate-clay, conforming
with the dip and rise, or trough of the lime-rock. The terrage
or cover is thick, particularly in the centre of the trough. Here
are four good draw-kilns. The coals for burning the lime are
brought either from Canobie, nine miles distant, or by sea from
the collieries of Cumberland to Annan, whence they are carted
eight miles to the kilns. The price of a Winchester bushel of
shells is about 4 1/2d.
	Near Blacketrigg, which is on the border of Middlebie parish,
and about one mile distant from Springkell, is a marble quarry,
from which large blocks have been raised for marble works. In
Springkell house there are several mantel-pieces and tables of this
marble. The colour is gray, tinged and clouded with red. As it
is susceptible of a high polish, it is pleasing to the eye and very
suitable for mantel-pieces and pavement for saloons. This marble
rock is overlaid by the common sandstone, as it appears at the
farm-stead of Blacketrigg.
	In this parish there is a great abundance of freestone, very dif-
ferent both in quality and colour. In the north part of the parish,
near to the farm-building of Blackcleugh, the rock is quartzy sand-
stone, with beds of soft red marly rock, both of a deep red colour.
The dip is westerly, with a declination of at least one in two. The
rock of Snabb-quarry, situated near the north boundary of the estate
of Springkell, is a good quartzy sandstone of a whitish colour, and
has very little cover of earth. The dip is to the eastward of north.
	The quarry of Craigshaws consists of sandstone of a white colour,
occasionally mixed with yellow. Its dip is moderate, about one in
five westerly. There are only about four feet of peat-earth above
it. The quarry of Branteth consists of rock of nearly the same
colour, having a westerly dip. At Sarkshields there is a quarry of
the hard chocolate-coloured sandstone, which is wrought for the
roads in that neighbourhood. The dip is to the north. Along the
banks of the Kirtle, there is in general nothing to be seen but the
red coloured sandstone, dipping westerly, with subordinate beds of
soft red-coloured marly rock, which gives a deep red colour to the
alluvial cover. The best freestone quarries here are to be found
upon the estate of Cove. In one of these quarries the rock is red


