
                        PARISH OF CASTLETOWN.

               PRESBYTERY OF LANGHOLM, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

                   THE REV. ANGUS BARTON, MINISTER. *


            I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.--THE origin of the modern, as well as of the ancient
name of this parish, is abundantly plain.  Upon the summit of a
precipice, about 100 feet perpendicular, on the east bank of the
river Liddal, and immediately above the church, there was a strong
fort or castle, the ram art and fosse of which remain entire : near
to these, in the place where the present road was formed, and in
several other parts in the immediate neighbourhood, many hearth-
stones were dug up, where a town or village had formerly stood.
Hence the name of Castle-town.  But the ancient name of this dis-
trict, and indeed that by which it is still most frequently denomi-
nated, was Liddisdale, from the river Liddal, which runs through
it in a direction from east to south.  In the ancient histories, and
geographical accounts of Scotland, it is called the county of Lid-
disdale and in old writs it is designed the Lordship of that name.
   Erection, Form, and Extent.--This parish formerly belonged to
the Presbytery of Jedburgh ; but when the five churches of Esk-
dale were erected into the  Presbytery of Langholm, it was added
to them in the year 1743.  This was done on account of its great
distance from the former seat of the presbytery. Its form ap-
proache:g nearly to that of a triangle, whose base runs from east
to west, along the head of Teviotdale, and whose opposite vertex
points to Solway Frith.  It contains, according to the map of the
county, about 52,160 Scotch acres.  It is the largest parish in the
south of Scotland, being upwards of 18 miles in length, and about
12 in breadth.
     Topographical Appearances.--The general appearance of the
upper part,of the parish is mountainous; the lower part Is hilly;
and a great part of it, at a distance from the banks of the rivers,

<FOOTNOTE>The greater part of this article, the Topography, Antiquities, &c. taken from
the Old Acoount,--the remainder from different sources.


