
368                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

of wet ware are only equal to one of dry ware, and the expense of
carrying a load of wet ware to a distance of four miles is 2s.,
the carriage of the six loads would be 12s., while an equal quan-
tity of dried ware would only cost for cutting and drying 4s. 6d.
and carriage 2s., in all 6s. 6d., leaving a balance of 5s. 6d. In fa-
vour of the dried ware when carried an equal distance, supposing
it, in either case, to be got without any other price than the ex-
pense of cutting and gathering.  It will also be found that the ware
does not lose any of its powers as a manure by being dried.  The
ware maybe used, 1st, mixed with earth or peat-moss, by which it
is decomposed; 2d, mixed with stable-yard dung; 3d, as a litter
for cattle or horses ; 4th, as fodder (in part) for cattle, it having
been found that cattle will feed upon it.  The three first of these
uses have been experimented upon with success in this parish.
The last suggestion, that it might be used for the purpose of feed-
ing cattle, would require to be more fully put to the test of expe-
rience before any thing can be asserted with confidence regarding
its qualities in that respect.  During the last season, it was, in
a few cases, used for the above purpose, and said to be relished by
the cattle.  The best mode of using it would, perhaps, be to cut
it along with the straw, and mix both together.  It is probable, that
it might be improved by being steamed before being used.  It may
be added that the species of ware most esteemed by kelp-makers,
called black ware, will be found to be more powerful as a manure
than the red ware cast upon the shores during storms.  In both cases,
whether used as a manure or for feeding cattle, it is an object well
worth the attention of agriculturists near the coast ; and it is to be
hoped that experiments may be made, and the result communicat-
ed to the public.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Town of Peterhead.-The town of Peterhead stands upon a pe-
ninsula projecting into the German Ocean, and forming the most
easterly point of land in Scotland.  The isthmus which connects
the town and country part of the parish is about 800 yards in
breadth.  Dr Moir states that the town, which had then been only
a small fishing village, with the adjoining lands of considerable
value, belonged to the abbey of Deer in 1560, and that, in that
year, Queen Mary appointed Robert Keith, son of William fourth
Earl Marischall commendator of Deer.  Peterhead was erected
into a burgh of barony by George Earl Marischall in 1593.  It
continued a part of the estates of the Earls Marischall until the


