
                    BANCHORY-TERNAN.                           341

of his country. His grandson, Thomas, the third Baronet, sat for
Kincardineshire in the Scottish Parliament of 1708.
	About 1647, Robert Douglas brother of Sir Archibald Dou-
glas, and son-in-law to Lord Audley, succeeded to the family es-
tate of Tilwhilly, and, having accepted the honour of knighthood
and a high command from the Royalists, had his house here garri-
isoned by the Covenanters, and was himself obliged ultimately to
retire to the continent with the ruin of all his property.   His only
daughter was married in 1665 to George Crichton of Cluny, who
erected, in 1666, Cluny Castle, now a small picturesque ruin on
the estate of Raemoir, and whose name soon after ceases to be
known in the parish. His grandson Gilbert, a companion of the
Duke of Wharton's, left no issue, and the family estate passed to
his brother, James Douglas of Inchmarlo, who in 1650, had ac-
quired that property from the Douglases of Glenbervie, into whose
hands it had fallen after the Reformation. The youngest son of
this James Douglas was Archibald, a clergyman, who succeeded
Bishop Burnet in the living of Saltoun, and who was the grand-
father of Bishop Douglas of Salisbury.
	On the 11th of September 1644, Montrose having crossed
the Dee by the ford at Mills of Drum, and, having summoned the
laird of Leys to surrender his house, which he immediately did,
"supped with him the same night, together with his guard." Next
day he marebed down to Aberdeen, and defeated the Covenan-
ters. Part of his soldiers' entrenchment is still visible in the cas-
tle grounds. The remains of his encampment on a subsequent
occasion, probably when he ravaged the Barony of Echt in pas-
sing this way to Strathbogie, are to be seen not far from the
entrance of the Howe of Corrichie, and are known by the name
of "Montrose's dike." His reply to a poor widow, who, after
his defeat in 1645, when be again visited the neighbourhood, re-
proached him with his former cruelty, is still repeated as a sort of
proverbial saying by some old people here.
	The register of the Barony Court of Leys between 1621 and
1,709 is in existence, and contains much curious information of lo-
cal, interest. The majority of the suits refer to pecuniary trans-
actions, but many are petty offences, and some publib `nd private
arrangements, such as, 1. "deforcing officiaris'" "stricking and
dinging;" "hurting, wounding, and bluid-shedding'" "comitting
ane ryatt;" "making one strugle;" "flytting and bakbyting;"
"being ane unlawfu' and infamous man;" "appealing from the


