
40                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

wide, in one unbroken cataract, and with unbridled fury
against the immense masses of unattached rock at the bottom, from
which it, "rising wets with misty showers," the high banks on
either side to a considerable distance.
   About three-fourths of a mile east from the church, the En-
drick receives a tributary stream, nearly half its size. This is
called the Gonachan Burn. It originates on the north side of
that hill south from the church, which we have said gives rise to
the Carron. It separates, nearly through the whole of its course,
the lands of His Grace the Duke of Montrose, from those of Mr
Speirs of Culcreuch. The river Endrick, originating in this pa-
rish, and its course through it being but short, cannot be suppos-
ed to contain a great quantity of water. Yet it is the sole moving
power of a considerable weight of machinery in the parish. The
Culcreuch cotton factory is driven solely by its waters; at the same
time, it would be by no means sufficient for this purpose, but that
a reservoir of considerable depth, covering about thirty acres of
land, has been constructed on the high ground, supplied wholly by
the Endrick, and calculated to contain water sufficient for the
purposes of the mill, for nearly six weeks.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--The parish of Fintry affords a great
variety of minerals, but never in great bodies. Coal in small seams
is found in many places: granite occurs in detached fragments:
there are also whinstone, freestone, and redstone, (locally called fire-
stone,)jasper, and fine specimens of zeolite. Rocks are numerous,
and so disposed, as to contribute not a little to the grandeur of the
scenery. These rocks belong to the trap formation, and lie in a po-
sition very similar to those of Stirling Castle, Craigforth, and others
in that neighbourhood. They exhibit the most sublime appear-
ance on the northern or Fintry hills. They surround the western
extremity of that range with much boldness, and on the south
side, from some cause unknown, a great and rapid disintegration
of the rock at its foundation seems to be going on. In the me-
mory of persons still alive in the parish, a large portion of this rock
began to subside. It is now separated from the hill by a chasm
of more than a yard wide, and sunk below its original position up-
wards of thirty feet. Masses of rock fall down every season. At

<FOOTNOTE>The mass of sunk rock is, in extent, upwards of 60 yards in length, and from 10
to 15 wide. The shattered and fallen masses are from its extremities. In the cen-
tre, it remains solid and entire as before it began to sink and separate from the hill.
The writer of this articles can imagine no more natural cause for this phenomenon
than the action of water at the foundation of this rook, meeting with some soluble


