
			ON THE COUNTY OF DUMFRIES.             571

lion Sterling for the whole of Dumfries-shire, the property of the
farmers themselves. Let this be added to the value of the lands
and the farm-buildings, and it would seem that about six millions
and a half Sterling are embarked in the farming of this county.
   8. The returns in rent are very moderate, surely, as above; but
the gross returns ought to be very considerable,--three times the
rent of lands in cultivation being thought by no means excessive
to cover the whole outlay, risk, and interest with moderate profits;
and twice the rent of lands in pasturage, all as the gross returns of
the land. Now, as the prices of these times can hardly be calcu-
lated above L. 4 for the returns per English acre, or L. 5 per Scot-
tish acre under crops, and the lands in crop are not above two-
fifths of the whole fields, or cultivated lands, the other three-fifths
being in grass;

<TABLE>
64,000 acres in white and green crops, at L. 4 per acre, would give as
    the total of crops yearly,                                             L. 256,000
And cattle having for some time returned little for the mere grass, and be-
    ing also rather fewer in number than in 1812, though better grazed, the
    grass returns of 30,000 at L. 1. 10s. each are                             45,000
Sheep are fully as numerous as in 1812, having partly the lower pastures
    now, and the returns for two or three years have been improved, but
    still the mere pasturage returns of 200,000 sheep at 7s. 6d. each would
    exceed the average beyond three years, and are                             75,000
Pigs return little for mere grazing, certainly not above L. 1 for each, which
    for 30,000 pigs would be                                                   30,000
The breeding of horses is chiefly to keep up the stock; and for poultry, bees,
    &c. the returns are small; but it may be only fair to state the whole at
    a sum equal to the gross returns from pigs being                           30,000
									   -------
And the total returns from crops and pasturage would thus be,              L. 436,000
A sum fully high stated, as is believed, on reviewing it; and these
returns are becoming less and less yearly, instead of increasing, as
they ought to do, so as to encourage improvement in arable land.
   9. The farmer must bear his proportion of taxation; but he very
naturally asks, why should not the fundholder do the same? The
navy 5 per cents. were fairly reduced to 4, with the reasonable op-
tion to accept or be paid off; and when banks give only 2 per
cent. on deposits, it again occurs very naturally, why not go far-
ther in the same way to reduce part of the twenty-eight millions of
interest on the public debt?
   10. Sir Henry Parnell and the Agricultural Committee of the
House of Commons may, in this way, find something to compen-
sate for part of the malt taxes; and they may also be assured that
if all these were repealed, and the growth of barley left unburden-
ed, it would extend very far indeed, and render importation of bar-
ley both unnecessary and improper. The duties on spirits might
then be raised, and perhaps on porter for public sale; and this


