
12                         SELKIRKSHIRE.

are so high, nor are the elevated tracts so cold, from sponginess of
surface, as to attract from the atmosphere more than in ordinary
share of moisture. The harvest is early; peaches and apricots
ripen in the open air; and, upon the whole, the climate may be
judged as favourable to longevity as any in Scotland.
   Geology, &c.-Clay-slate, greywacke, and ironstone, are the
principal rocks occurring in the parish; and no Coal, lime or
freestone, likes yet been found. Owing to the great distance
from coal, viz. twenty-four miles, it is most desirable that that
necessary mineral should make its, appearance; and search, if
search could produce it, would not have failled. But alas! on the last
attempt which I witnessed, it was found that a sort of shale, not be-
tuminous, had duped the sanguine excavators, one of whom on
shewing the deceitful semblance said, "it is as black as coal, as
hard as a coal, and is heavy as a coal; in short, it is coal altoge-
ther, except that it will not burn." Shell-marl abounds in Lin-
dean oil the south side of Tweed; and, what is very remarkable,
there is no vestige of that manure to be found on the north side,
over a large tract of country. It lives been extensively used, to the
great benefit of agriculture and of pasture lands, but now it is rarely
driven farther than four or five allies; lime, though twenty miles
distant, being preferred since the public roads became so highly
improved.
   The soil is of all characters, from the black mould to the ochrey
clay. It is sandy, but fertile oil the banks of the rivers. The
rising grounds to the south of the Tweed have a considerable mix-
ture of clay oil a till bottom; those to the north are dry and
gravelly, with all everlasting profusion of small stones. The black
mould is scarce, being found only on small fields of table-land out
of the reach of the rivers, and enriched at the expense of the slop-
ing hills. Peat-moss is nowhere to be met with, except in small
spots where water has been long stagnant; and its use for fuel,
notwithstanding the great distance of coal, is almost entirely aban-
doned.
   Hydrography.-As the rivers flow with considerable rapidity,
and are rarely confined by rocky banks,  much trouble and expense are
occasioned by floods. The Tweed may be seen a quarter of a mile in
breadth, rolling its mighty sea, which mountains seem inadequate to
oppose; and the Gala less powerful, but more mischievous, would
spare, if it were not carefully checked, neither corn-fields nor stone
walls. The best remedy in use is a species of bulwark called puts.
                               3


