
                         RENFERW.                              15                15

farther proofs and illustrations of both this and the former monu-
ment will be found in the same work by its ingenious and learned
editor.  With the historical controversy raised on this last tradi-
tion, we cannot farther intermeddle than to add our name to the list
of those who sustain the tradition, supported as it is with historical
facts; and simply to add, that we examined the spot, accompanied by
our fore-mentioned guide,-that the ground rises immediately be-
hind this into a dry, hard, gravelly knoll, while the place where
she is said to have fallen is soft and marshy; and was so to a much
greater, extent in the recollection of our informant.  " He had
often," he said, " seen the cattle lair * in it."  And he added,
that the common belief of those whom he had heard in early life re-
peat the tradition, was that her horse must have been coming over
the knoll, and got into this marsh before she was aware; and the
appearance of the grounds still comports with this explanation.
   Religious Houses.-One of the objects which first engaged the
attention of the Stewards after their settlement, was the establish-
ment of religious houses in this quarter.  Walter, the first Steward,
seeins to have established a monastery of the Cluniac order of Bene-
dictine monks first at Renfrew.  In a confirmatory charter of Mal-
colm IV. a previous grant by Walter the first Steward is thus de-
scribed: " Sciunt tam posteri quarn presentes me concessisse, et hac
mea carta confirmasse, Deo et ecclesiiae Sanctae Mariae et Sancti Ja-
cobi, de insulajuxta oppidam Reiqfrew, etpriori oJusdem-loci, et mo-
nachis ibidem." And in a charter granted afterwards in favour of the
abbey of Paisley, the following clause occurs: " et molendinum de
Renfru, et terram ubi monachi prius habitaverunt." From this and
other evidence, it would appear, that what afterwards became the ab-
bey of Paisley was first a religious house at Renfrew; and that, dur-
ing the lifetime of the founder, it was chiefly removed to Paisley.  As
to the place it occupied here, we are disposed to differ from some in
thinking that it was on the Inch.  We believe it to have been rather
on the south banks of that channel of the Clyde which passed un-
der Renfrew, and therefore not far from the street opposite Mill-
Burn House.   And hence the adjoining lands were afterwards
chaplainries, the chaplainries of St Mary and St Thomas,-
which names they still bear.   And lands immediately adjoining
these are still called Monk Dyke, &c. We may add, that a great
number of altarages were afterwards erected, such as that of St
Mary or our Lady, St Christopher, St Ninian, St Andrew, St:
Thomas, St Bartholomew, and the HolY Cross.

<FOOTNOTE>Lair, stick in the mire."-JAM. Et. Dict.


