
			OLD LUCE.                               73

oatmeal, and 5 bolls of potatoes per year; besides being firnished
with a house, garden, and fuel. Male servants unmarried, living
in farm-houses, and doing the same work, receive each for the same
term of service about L. 10; common labourers usually receive 1s.
2d. per day in summer, and 1s. in winter. Female servants in
farm-houses receive each about L. 5 per year.
	Improvements.--Twenty year ago the whole arable land in
the parish of Old Luce was comparatively in an uncultivated
state. Scarcely any wheat, barley, beans, peas, or turnips were pro-
duced, even in the cultivated districts, and not more than one
fifth of the annual quantity of potatoes which is now raised. The
high price of cattle and sheep, previous to that period, retarded
the progress of cultivation, and turned the attention of the farmers
chiefly to pasturage. Only a small proportion of the land actu-
ally devoted to tillage received any manure, and little attention was
paid to the reclaiming of waste land, or improving the general soil.
Since that time, however, a different system of husbandry has been
introduced and extensively prosecuted, which has greatly increas-
ed the amount of raw produce, and changed the whole aspect of
the southern parts of the parish. The continued low price of cat-
tle for several years past has led, in all the more cultivated dis-
tricts to a change of stock, and an improved system of agriculture.
The increase of dairies, and the scheme of management connect-
ed with them, have tended much to improve the general state of
the land, inasmuch as a greater quantity of manure is thereby
procured, and a greater proportion of the soil annually enriched.
In particular, the system of green-cropping, upon a more extensive
scale, recently introduced by an eminent practical farmer (Mr Gib-
son, factor to Sir James D. Hay,) and now generally adopted, has
greatly increased both the natural value of the land, and the quan-
tity of farm produce. This system, besides having increased the
average extent of crop on all farms where it is pursued, has na-
turally turned the attention of the farmers to all practicable means
of improving their lands; and by draining, levelling, removing
stones, and applying proper manure, they have effected of late an
extensive improvement. Some parts of the land which were for-
merly waste and useless, have, under this system of management,
been rendered the most productive and valuable; and them gene-
ral aspect of the parish presents in consequenmce a very melio-
ated appearance. It is presumed that the mode of husbandry


