
           PARISH OF WIGTON.


  PRESBYTERY OF WIGTON, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

    THE REV. PETER YOUNG, MINISTER.

       I. Topography And Natural. History.
  Name.--The name is supposed to be compounded of the Saxon
words Wic, a village, and Ton, a hill, denoting the local situation
of the town, which is seated on an eminence, about 200 feet above
the level of the sea, commanding an extensive view of the bay of
Wigton, of the stewartry of Kirkcudbright, of the distant hills of
Cumberland, and of the Isle of Man.  The hill on which the
town is situated contains about 200 acres of arable land of the
best quality, not surpassed by any hill of the same extent in the
south of Scotland.  Wigton was made a royal burgh in the reign
of David II.  This honour was probably conferred on it in the
year 1341, when it was established as the chief town of the earl-
dom or county of Wigton, conferred on Sir Malcolm Fleming;
whence the noble family of Wigton.   The title became extinct in
1747, having terminated in a female.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The parish, which is between five
and 6 miles long, and about 4 miles broad, is supposed to con-
tain about 5500 acres.  It is bounded on the south by the river
Bladenoch, which separ`tes it from the parish of Kirkinner;  on
the west, by a small rivulet and a morass, dividing it from the pa-
rish of Penningham; on the north, by the Bishop Burn, which
runs between it and the last mentioned parish;  and on the east, by
the bay of Wigton and the Frith of Cree.
   Geology.--The rocks in this parish belong to the transition
class, chiefly greywacke and greywacke slate.

                   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, the Earl of Gallo-
way; Stewart of Physgill; M'Culloch of Torhouse; Hagart of Tor-
housekie; and M'Haffie of Torhousemuir.
   The borough of Wigton has also a considerable property in the
parish, and there are several smaller proprietors who possess por-
WIGTON.                                  A


