
302                      RENFREWSHIRE.

cipals in Edinburgh and Glasgow; and two provident institutions.
Of Fire and Life Insurance agencies we have nineteen; and in ad-
dition, the " Amicable Mutual Assurance and Endowment Society
of Scotland," established on the most liberal and economical prin-
ciples, has here a prosperous branch.  The old " Friendly Socie-
ties," which were generally established on fallacious calculations,
have either died away, or are giving place to institutions of the
same nature on better principles.  Our visits to Glasgow, which,
fifty years age, were made at respectable intervals by tradesmen
on foot, or by those who could afford it on horseback, are now
made hourly, in all the varied modes which land or water carriage
can command.  These are some of the visible and palpable points
of comparison between our town as it was and as it is; and look-
ing on Paisley even in these external relations, candour must say
of it, that it promises to be, in a higher sense than it has hitherto
been, one of the great rising communities of Scotland.
   But Paisley must stand or fall by its manufacturing industry;
and it become's a very serious question, what may be the state and
prospects of Paisley in this respect?  At the time of the last Sta-
tistical report, Paisley had enjoyed a lengthened period of manu-
facturing prosperity, and it continued to do so for a good many
years after.  Perhaps the inost prosperous diys for Paisley were
those from 1803 to 1810, when the Continent was the seat of war,
and when the maritime and commercial preponderance of insular
Great Britain was propitiously felt iii all her marts of trade.  A
good workman could, at that period, realize by the labour of his
hands from L. 1, 5s to L. 2, 10s. a-week!  The consequence was
an overstocking of the trade, and a glutting of the markets.  Some
extensive failures occurred, and by 1812, a most serious check
had been given to our manufactures.  From that time till 1830,
we have had our seasons of prosperity and of decline; we have
waxed and we have waned; but never did our operatives regain
their former position of gainful industry.  Time and the succes-
sion of events work wonders, and for the last eight years Paisley
may be said to have been in a prosperous condition.  Experience
has taught many salutary lessons. The branches of trade have been
multiplied.  Operatives have not been so ready to bring up their
children to their own trade, but have sought out other means of oc-
cupation,-looking beyond, it may be, the magic circle of the
family fireside, and sending them to a distance that they may be-
nefit other places by those mental energies which might have


