
                        BURNTISLAND.                           405

vary considerably in appearance and elevation. The highest are,
Orrock Hill and Dunearn Hill. The latter is the highest land
in the parish, beidcr 695 feet above the level of the sea. The view
from it is uncommonly extensive and magdificent, embracing, it
is said, portions of fourteen counties.
The town stands on a peninsula, which projects a considerable
way into the Fritb, and is very picturesque in its appearance.
There are about three miles of coast, one,-third of which is sandy,
and two-thirds rocky. At the western boundary there is a small
cave, to which at full tide there is no access.
The climate is exceedingly salubrious, and epidemics are rare.
Hydrography.-There are few streams in the parish. The
most interesting is Starly Burn, which flows off the large field of
limestone belonging to the Carron Company, and, after a very
short course, falls over a high rock into the sea. The cascade
thus formed is at all times highly picturesque, and, seen through
the luxuriant foliage which environs it in summer, is an object of
uncommon beauty. The water is of a petrifying quality. It holds
in solution the super-carbonate of lime, which, on coming into con-
tact with the atmosphere, gives off its excess of carbonic acid, and
is precipitated as the carbonate of lime. Many interesting spe-
cimens of petrified moss and wood have been here procured.
The water with which the town is supplied, is conveyed by
leaden pipes from the high ground to the eastward. As it flows
off lime, it is in some degree impregnated with that substance, and
leaves a slight deposit on being boiled. It is bard, but clear and
wholesome; and there is, in general, an abundant supply.
Tides, 4c.-Under this head it may be stated, that two hours
before high.-water the ebb-tide commences to run down inshore ;
and that, vice versa, two hours before low-water, the flood-tide
commences to run up in-sbore. Sometimes before low-water, the
tide is observed to flow for a short time, and then to ebb to a
greater distance than the line at which the irregular' flow born-
menced. The reverse of this phenomenon is also observed to
take place-the tide sometimes beginning to ebb before high-
water, and, after receding a short space, to return to high-water
vaark. These irregularities are denominated leakies, and are al-
ways connected with stormy weather. A minute account of them,
as they occur in the Frith, between Queensferry and Alloa, may.
be found in Sibbald's History of Fife, in a communication from the
Rev. Mr Wright, formerly minister at Alloa.

