
944                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

considering its moderate height, commands a most extensive view
of no ordinary kind, on the one hand, of the high lands of Aber-
deenshire, and on the other of a very large plain extending to the
German Ocean and Moray Frith, composed chiefly of the districts
of Garioch, Formartine, and Buchan.  It is worthy of notice also,
that Benachie with its craggy peaks is, from many points, a high-
ly striking and picturesque object.  Menaway with its range ex-
tends nearly four miles south from the Don, to where a hollow, at
Tillyfourie, through which the turnpike road to Aberdeen runs,
partially separates it from Corenny and the range dividing the val-
leys of the Dee and Don.  Its summit, which is round, is in Mo-
nymusk, and, according to Robertson, 1430 feet in height.
   There is a considerable extent of cultivated land up the slopes
of the hills, to a height of perhaps 700 feet above the sea.  The
central part of the parish is tolerably flat, and probably at a height
of from 420 to 440 feet.  Along the Don there is some haugh
land on a still lower level, perhaps only elevated from 350 to 400
feet, the bed of the river where it enters Keig being 380, at the
bridge near the centre 360, and where it quits it, 340 feet above
the sea.
   Climate, &c.-The climate is healthy, and the diseases of Keig
generally considered, do not differ from those of any other coun-
try parish in the north of Scotland.  Perhaps, however, the fol-
lowing circumstances connected with this subject deserve a notice.
In the Edinburgh Medical Journal for July 1826, Dr Alexander
Murray has given a short account of five individuals belonging to
Keig, related to one another, all being boys, and four of them
brothers, who were all attacked by breedings from the mouth, nose,
scalp, and bowels, from the effects of which all died except one.
"There are upon record," says Dr Murray, "a few instances of
a similar complaint attacking relatives, most of which occurred in
Germany and America."  In the Edinburgh Medical Journal for
April 1830, Dr Murray has also noticed an unusual kind of scar-
let fever, followed by a painful swelling of the joints, which occur-
red in this district and principally in this parish, and, from its re-
semblance in various particulars to a remarkable epidemic which
lately prevailed extensively in the West Indies, where it appears
to be considered a new, disease, he has suggested that the West
India complaint may be no other than scarlet fever,-"an opi-
nion," he says, "which an observer on the spot bad previously
adopted."


