
	254 	                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	are still to expire of his lease. The quality of the salmon of this
	parish is considered decidedly superior to that of any other station
        in Skye. It is caught solely by bag-nets,-preserved by pickling,
        -and sold at the London market.
	   The sbores abound with most, although not with all common
	shell-fish. Bivalves of various kinds are frequently found attach-
	ed to the fishermen's long lines, when lifted from the bottom of
	the deep.  Lobsters, crabs, whelks, buckies, mussels, limpets,
	clams, cockles, &c. are found in more or less abundance. Oys-
	ters and spout-fish are very rare. Some of these afford tempo-
	rary relief to many of the poor inhabitants in years of dearth. Dur-
	ing the late memorable seasons of scarcity the shores were literally
	covered with the starving natives, in quest of such little supplies of
	shell-fish as were left exposed by the ebbing of the tide.
	   Limpets are much used as bait for catching sythe, cod, had-
	dock, and other fishes. There is no regular fishing apparatus for
	catching lobsters, crabs, clams, &c. and on that account there are
	but small quantities of them procured for family use.
           Botany.- All sorts of vegetables for culinary purposes suc-
	ceed well, both in field and garden. There is also a variety of
	plants to which the natives attribute great medicinal virtues.
	No doubt some are found to be of use. The Geranium ro-
	bertianum is applied to sores and cutaneous eruptions, and the
	Cicuta virosa, or hemlock, to deeply-rooted tumours. Chamo-
	mile tea, and the juices of several other plants are used with
	benefit. Some of the natives pretend to great skill in point-
	ing out medicinal herbs, and the proper manner of applying
	them. It is supposed, however, that the healing quality of many
	of the herbs resorted to for cures, is more in the imagination of
	the people, than in the herbs themselves. Such medicinal pro-
	cesses are often attended with much nonsensical manoeuvres, and
	superstitious ceremonies.
	   Besides the medicinal plants, others are successfully used for
	the purposes of dyeing colours and tanning leather. By means of
	the common heath, a yellow is produced, and with the addition of
	indigo, a green. The bark or branches of the alder-tree, with
	sulphate of iron or copperas, dyes an excellent black.
	   Although in bygone ages, the parish must have been wooded,
	as is proved by the remains of trees found in mosses and in other
	situations, yet it does not seem to be now adapted for the growth
	of almost any species of timber.  Where trees attain a certain


