
                            PAISLEY.                     139

  Extent and Boundaries.-The parish of Paisley is situated in
the upper ward of the county, and in the finest part of it.  It way
be regarded, in point of extent, the third in Renfrewshire, and in
point of value, by far the first.  Its distance from the Clyde is lit-
tle more than 2 miles.  Its extreme length from north-east to
south-west, is nearly 9 miles.  In breadth it varies from half a
mile to about 5 1\2  miles, being deeply indented on all sides by
corners of adjoining parishes.  In consequence of this, notwith-
standing its great length, and in some parts breadth, it measures
little more than about 16000 acres.  It is bounded on the north
and north-east by the parishes of Renfrew and Govan; on the
east and south-east by those of Eastwood and Neilston; on the south
and south-west, by those of Neilston and Lochwinnoch; and on
the west by the parish of Kilbarchan.
   Topographical Appearances.-Near the centre of the parish in
N. Lat. 55&deg; 48 and W. Long. 4&deg; 26 on a bold terrace-like ridge,
rises the town of Paisley.  Much of it is built on that ridge, and
on one of a similar description, which runs parallel on the south.
The distance of the cross of Paisley from that of Glasgow is about
7 3/4 miles; and from the Clyde, which flows north of it, about 3.
The surface occupied by what is properly called the old town, or
the burgh of Paisley, is about a mile square; but in speaking of Pais-
ley, we must include its populous suburbs in the Abbey parish, espe-
cially those now within the parliamentary burgh, which is spread over
a surface of about 3 miles by 2 1/2, and contains about 6 square
miles, including a small portion of the parish of Renfrew.  The
general surface of the Abbey parish is of a beautifully diversified
character.  Around the town of Paisley, except to the northward,
many gentle eminences, some in cultivation, and others in wood,
" impart their beauty to the scene." Northward of the town, the
surface is flat, principally indeed consisting of reclaimed moss. But
the southern border of the parish, rises into what are called the

<FOOTNOTE>" There are two names derived from Latin, which have probably been imposed by
the monks.  Sacel-hill, receives its name from a Sacellum or chapel, which stood at
its base, and from which a small cluster of houses is still called the chapel.  Blada, a
piece of ground adjoining the Sacel-mill seems to be Bladum, grain a word frequent-
ly found in the barbarous Latin of the middle ages."
Titles are themselves Scottish," says the writer of the article Paisley in the Edinburgh
Encyclopedia, speaking of the Prince of Wales as Baron of Snowdon, Snaudon, and
Renfrew.  " Now, as the Stewart family had long their chief seat in Renfrewshire,
and the lands of Snaudoun, near Paisley, formed, in all probability, a part of the pa-
trimonial inheritance of that illustrious house, it does not seem at all improbable, that
the baronial title of Snowdon, actually coupled with that of Renfrew, was derived from
the very lands in question."-Encyc. Vol. xvi. p, 270.


