
334                            AYRSHIRE.

ly behind the manse, to the height of 1300 feet. Bennan hill, half
a mile south of the village, on which a small obelisk was built about
fifty years aao, is about 1150 feet high. From both these hills,
there are fine views of Ayrshire, the Frith of Clyde, Arran, and
part of the coast of Ireland. The hills in the higher part of the
parish are exceedingly numerous, but do not rise to any great ele-
vation.
	Meteorology, &c.--The climate is rather moist, but more mild
than the vicinity of the hills might lead a stranger to imagine.
All kinds of fruit-trees grow well upon the banks of the Girvan,
and in some seasons even peaches come to perfection upon an
open wall. Fruit-trees have never, however, succeeded on the
banks of the Doon in this parish. In the higher parts of the parish,
particularly along Loch Doon, no crop is  seen except, adjoining
the farm-houses, very small patches of rye.
	The parish is very healthy,--the average number of deaths
for the last ten years being only 1 in 71 of the whole population,
although many young men in the prime of life are always leaving
the parish, to settle in the towns of Scotland, or to engage in the
employment of travelling dealers in England.
	Hydrography.--Next to the multitude of hills, the most strik-
ing feature is the number of lakes that are either wholly within the
parish, or upon its borders. Loch Doon belongs to this parish,
being included in the charters of the Marquis of Ailsa.* This
loch is upwards of six miles long, and a mile in breadth, and is
much frequented in summer by fishing parties. The scenery
around is bleak and rugged. There is no wood upon its banks,
and the sluices made about fifty years ago, to regulate the egress
of its waters into the river Doon, have destroyed the bold outlet it
had, when the stream poured over the natural rocky barrier, and
laid bare a large extent of gravelly and useless land. There are
twenty-two other small lakes in the parish. Upon three of them,
Loch Braden, Dercleugh Loch, and Loch Finlas, boats are kept
for angling.
	Two river rise in the parish. The Doon flows from Loch
Doon, forms the boundary of the parish for ten miles, and, after
passing through the parishes of Dalrymple and Maybole, falls into
the sea two miles from Ayr. Immediately beneath Loch Doon,
it runs for upwards of a mile through a very bold and narrow chan-

<FOOTNOTE> Book of Retours. Edinburgh, 1811. Ayr, No. 550.


