
210                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

old chancel-door; * and, in 1805, to give room for celebrating the
holy sabrament of the Lord's supper, the north transept was re-
moved, and a new one built, and the whole structure repaired and
modernized. The church, after these various mutilations, now
presents a beautiful specimen of the Scots order of the ecclesias-
tical barn architecture. The ancient baptismal font is still pre-
served, and, on a late repair of the church, two grave-stones of
great antiquity were discovered; these are preserved carefully.
The church was covered with heather till 1754.
	The funeral inscription of a family that rented the same farm
for 300 years, is the only church-yard antiquity. The oldest head-
stone is dated 1616. A tumulus measuring twenty-four feet dia-
meter, and three feet deep, principally made up of animal charcoal
and earth, was lately removed from off the lands of Sorrysikemuir.
In the middle of the mound, was a cell three feet by two, contain-
ing ` handful of ashes; an urn some years ago was found outside
this cell, also containing ashes. A coin of Mary Stuart was
found in a Britisih camp near this Roman chancel-house, and in
another part of the parish a lad discovered, an earthen pot contain-
ing about forty silver coins; the oldest was of Mary and Darnley.
They were sold for old silver.--On the farm of Cowdens, in the
north of the parish, and near the present Glasgow road, is shown
the spot where stood the tent from which Ralph Erskine sounded
the trumpet of defiance against the Established church. The
descendants of this original seceding congregation finally settled
in the village of Lockerby, where they are distinguished for the
piety of their sentiments, and the purity of their lives.

<FOOTNOTE>It was during this repair of the church that the celebrated gorgets were removed
from their fastenings at the chancel-door of the church. This word gorget, gentle
reader, signifies an iron collar which opened with a hinge. It was placed round the
neck of tbe penitent, and padlocked by the sexton. The miserable sinner, clothed in
sackcloth, chained up by the neck to the chancel-door, stood in " durance vile" dur-
ing the long hours of worship. The reader may shudder or the profligate may laugh;
but it was the severe discipline of the church, not more severe than a harbarous age
required, coming in aid of our wholesome education of the young, and faithful teach-
ing of the old, which, under Providence, has exalted Scotland so high as a moral and
religious nation.
	In the session records is an original bond, executed by a person, wherein he engages
that there shall be no fighting or rioting at his daughter's wedding, which he can pre-
vent, under the penalty of L. 2 Scots. The bond was demanded by the session, and
is dated so late as 1707. There are many entries of fines, reprimanding, &c. for
even allowing a shirt to remain drying on a hedge during the Sabbath. It was from
such severity that the Scotthsh Sabbath solemnity, which is the admiration of the re-
ligious world, arose. It was the holy discipline of our church which counteracted the
tendency of the book of sports to heathenize that sacred day in Scotland.


