
400                            LANARKSHIRE.

of Muckcroft and Burnbrae deserve to be noted, though, from the
removal of the ancient inhabitants, it is now little frequented. The
well at Bedlay behoves to be specially mentioned, not only on ac-
count of the copiousness, the constancy, and the salubrity of its wa-
ter, but from an unreasonable attempt in 1807 to deprive the pro-
prictors, feuars and cottagers of Chryston of its benefit,--which
they effectually resisted upon the negative prescription of forty
years undisturbed possession; while there could be no doubt that
the Grays of Chryston occupied it equally from time immemorial
with the proprietor of Bedlay.
	There was an extensive loch in the very centre of the parish,
which gave the name to a property now converted into two farms
by the proprietor of Cadder. It partly gave name to two other pro-
perties, called the Easter and Wester Lumloch; and, besides other
places, to a considerable township called Auchinloch, whence the
water issued from it. One of the proprietors of the parish com-
menced a drift below one of the gentle ridges which rise from the
parish of Kirkintilloch, which drain needed to be continued near-
ly a mile, but from the unskilfulness or corruptibleness of the mi-
ners, it is said to have ruined three proprietors of the Loch estate.
After it was drained, the College of Glasgow, the titulars of the
teinds of Cadder, tried to get it valued with the rest of the parish,
but although it cost the then possessor only a very moderate pur-
chase money, the Court of Teinds overruled the attempt. A liut-
mill in the parish of Kirkintilloch has a servitude on its drain, pro-
bably because the stream without detriment was to go through the
lands where it is placed. The sluice may be shut three weeks
after all is shorn, and must be opened again on the first of March.
	There was another loch called Loch Grog, which was also drain-
ed in 1808, though the ground is not so firm as to be all yet
arable. Upon it, the proprietors of the Lumlochs, then not fewer
than four, had a servitude for watering their cattle and steepidg
their lint; and what is more strange, the numerous proprietors of
Balmone in the parish of Baldernock, who hold of the duke of
Montrose, had a similar servitude upon it, though two miles dis-
tant. There is another loch in the west division of the parish
called Robroyston Loch, about one-third of which is in the pa-
rish of Cadder. It is fast filling up, not so much with what is car-
ried into it, as with what grows and decays all around it. It has
been seen by the aged almost completely dry, and the water once
was so thoroughly frozen, that most of the fish, chiefly eels, were im-


