
                        GREENLAW.                                        45

                <TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY.>
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.
   Number of acres either cultivated or occasionally in tillage.    -	6276
                   never cultivated,    -     -     -     -    -    -   3151
                   capable of being cultivated with a profit,       -    500
                   under wood,   -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    	 435
                   in undivided common.    -    -    -    -    -     -  1000

   The common above referred to is pastured during the whole year
by the cows of the villagers. Every householder appears to have
a right of pasturage, and the cattle are tended by a common herd.
They are brought home every night, and sent out on the morn-
ing. The right of pasturage is of considerable value, and enables
the greater number of the householders to keep a cow. The ex-
pense of herding to each individual amounts only to a few shillings
yearly.
   Rent of Land.-The valued rent of the parish is L. 6836, 3s.
116/12d. Scots. The rent of land varies according to its quality
and situation. Near the town of Greenlaw, where it is let in small
portions, the rent is from L.1,10s. to L.3 an acre; enclosed arable
farms let at from L.1 to L.2 an acre; unenclosed farms, which
are partly in tillage and partly stocked with sheep, are not let by
the acre but in the lump. About fifty years ago, the real rent of
the parish did not exceed the third part of what it is at present.
   The great rise of rent is owing not so much to any considerable
rise in the price of grain as in the price of sheep and cattle, and
the vast improvements which have been made in agriculture, by
which more grain is raised than formerly.
   Rate of Wages.-The price of labour has greatly increased since
the late improvements were introduced into Berwickshire. Far-
mers' men-servants, who have their victuals in their masters' houses,
receive from L.8 to L.12 a-year; the women from L.7 to L.8.
But most of the men-servants employed in husbandry are married,
and eat in their own houses. They receive for meat and wages
twelve or thirteen bolls of grain, L.4 in money, food for a cow dur-
ing the whole year, with some other allowances, which may amount
in all to L.25 yearly.
   Men day-labourers, when they furnish their own victuals, which
they generally do, receive 1s. 6d. or 1s. 8d. a-day, except in mor-
ing time and in harvest, when they get 2s. or 2s. 6d. per day, with
their victuals; women receive for working at hay and weeding turnips
1s. a-day, without victuals. The day's wage of a mason in summer
is from 2s. 4d. to 3s., of a carpenter the same. Work, however,


