
818			  PERTHSHIRE.

gateway, through which the principal approach to Kilgraston runs.
It is possessed by cottagers and pendiclers, and is remarkable for
the taste with which its inhabitants embellish the fronts of their
houses, by means of evergreens and roses, and for the uncommon
cleanliness by which there interior is marked.
  The word Kintulloch signifies, in Gaelic, the top of a gentle
rising ground, or green eminence, and appropriately describes its
situation, which is contiguous to a slope that rises from a brook
that rolls a little to the south. The most remote allusion we can
6nd to the lands of Kintulloch is in Chalmers's Caledonia, (VoL i.
p. 590). "Hugh Say, an Englishman, obtained a grant of the
lands of Kintulloch, in Perthshire, under William the Lion. His
estate descended to Arabella, his sister, who married Reginald de
Warrene. (Reginald is a witness to a charter of William de
Ruthven, Lord of Ruthven, during the reign of Alexander II. i. e.
from 1214 to 1249. See charter of Scone, 74.) Arabella after
the death of her husband, granted, in 1249, to the monks of
Scone, a toft and a croft, with three acres of land, in her territory
of Kuntilloch," (lb. 65.) Kintulloch, after passing successively
through various hands, has devolved upon Mr Grant of Kil-
graston. When it belonged to the Craigies of Dunbarny, its
inhabitants were "thirled" to the wind-mill that stood a little to
the west of Dunbanry House, and of which the remains may still
be seen.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Soil, Agriculture.-From the bridge of Forteviot to the con-
fluence of the Tay with the Earn, there is along the banks of the
latter a spacious tract of deep clay, chiefly of a brown colour. In
the vicinity of the Bridge of Earn, there is a considerable number
of feet below ground a stratum of moss, from one to three feet in
thickness. It has been often observed when a shaft has been dug
in the earth for finding water. Itlis owing to the presence of this
stratum for some hundred yards along the margin of the Earn, in
the parish of Dunbarny, that no good water is obtained at the vi-
lage of the Bridge of Earn, as, in every well of water dug there,
the liquid is impregnated by a disagreeable infusion from the moss.
In the village of Khntulloch, situated about half a mile from the
river, that precious fluid is found in the utmost state of purity,
because the moss does not extend so far. Various kinds of tim-
bar and other vegetable substances are found imbedded in it, and
uniformly with their trunks and stems stretched in a direction from


