
14			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

ber of his dependents in the disastrous battle of Flodden. His son
fell in a feud by the hands of Gordon of Lochinvar, at the door of
St Giles' Church, in Edinburgh.
	The Duke of Albany, regent of Scotland, and next heir to the
crown, in 1523, embarked at Brest in a fleet of eighty-seven ves-
sels, and having escaped the English squadron, landed at Kirk-
cudbright on the 7th of October, where he was joyfully received.
	During the minority of Mary Queen of Scots, the English hav-
ing gained possession of Dumfries, summoned the town of Kirk-
cudbright to submit to the authority of Edward VI. This demand
being refused, a detachment of the invaders on horseback pro-
ceeded to the town, under the command of Sir Thomas Carleton,
to compel obedience or burn it. They reached their places of des-
tination, a little before sunrise; but the inhabitants hade got no-
tice of their approach, and, according to Sir Thomas's account,
"barred their gates and kept their dikes; for the town," he adds,
"is diked on both sides, with a gate to the waterward, and a gate
at the overend to the fellward." The English alighted from
their horses, and vigorously assailed the place; but they could
make no impression upon it. One man was killed wthin the walls
by an arrow, and immediately some of the women began to be
alarmed for the safety of their husbands. The tutor of Bombie,
at the heads of a party of his friends, now made his appearance,
and fiercely attacked the besiegers; but, after three of his men
were killed and a number of them wounded or made prisoners, he
thought it advisable to retire. Though only one of the English
fell in the conflict, they did not venture to attack the town a se-
cond time, but retired to Dumfries.
	After the destruction of the ill-fated Mary's army at Langside,
she fled into Galloway, accompanied by Lord Herries and his fol-
lowers. Having travelled along the west side of the ken, she
crossed the Dee by a wooden bridge, thought to have been erect-
ed by the Romans, near Tongland church, and entered the pa-
rish of Kirkcudbright. Whilst her attendants were engaged in
breaking down the bridge to prevent pursuit, she remained in a
neighbouring cottage. The ruins which long existed in the farm
of Culdoch were called "Dun's Wa's." The fugitive Queen re-
mained three days in the district before proceeding to England.
	To avenge the death of Mary and his own wrongs, Philip, King
of Spain, &c. fitted out a stupendous fleet and collected a vast army
for the invasion of Britain. The place fixed for the landing of


