
                      EAST KILBRIDE.                      885

   Coralloides.-Junci Lapidei, Astroitae, Fungitae, Milleporae,
Escharae, and Retepori, or fan-coral.
   Fishes Teeth.-Plectronites, incisores, with many undescribed
species.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   According to the Chartulary of Glasgow, East Kilbride church
belonged to the Bishops of Glasgow, and was confirmed to them
by a bull from Pope Alexander III. in the year 1178; by another
from Pope Lucius III. in 1181 ; and by another from Pope Ur-
ban III. 1186.  From the same authority it appears, that Roger
de Valnois had a castle at East Kilbride in 1182 and 1189.
   In the Taxed Bagimont's Roll, L.16 Scots is the sum fixed for
the ecclesiastical property in East Kilbride at the Reformation. Mr
John Stevenson, who was also chantor of Glasgow Cathedral, held
this parsonage, which was then worth L.266, 13s. 4d. Scots per
annum, as appears from the MSS. Rental Roll in the Rotuli
Scotorum, fol. 8.
   A most interesting volume was published in the year 1793, by
the late. Rev. David Ure, A. M., (who was at that time a licen-
tiate of the Church of Scotland, who had for many years acted as
assistant to Mr David Connell, minister of the parish, and who was
afterwards himself the minister of the parish of Uphall,) entitled
"The History of Rutherglen and East Kilbride."  The avowed
object of this work, as announced on its title-page, was to promote
the study of antiquity and natural history.  The first and second
chapters of it relate to the civil history, antiquities, and general
circumstances of the burgh and parish of Rutherglen.  In the
fifth and sixth chapters, the author treats of the natural history of
Rutherglen and East Kilbride in conjunction.  The third and
fourth are devoted to the civil history, antiquities, and general
circumstances of East Kilbride.  Mr Ure sent a compend of his
account of East Kilbride to Sir John Sinclair, which forms the
sixty-second number of the work with which that gentleman favour-
ed the public.  But a perusal of the compend can furnish no ade-
quate idea of the value of Mr Ure's own publication.  Its fulness
and accuracy are most remarkable, when the date of its composition
is considered.  I am not aware that it has left anything to be sup-
plied in regard to the civil history of the parish before its author's
time, or in regard to the antiquities, except in so far as the condi-
tion of remains may have since been altered.  The work was pub-
   LANARK.                                  3 L


