
     Statistical Account

   Heritors, Population, &c.-The property of lands is
divided among 7 heritors (the 3 first of whom reside for
the most part), viz. Mrs. Urquhart of Braclangwell,
proprietrix of the estate of Newhall; David Urquhart
of Braclangwell, Esq.; George Gun Munro of Poynter-
field, Esq.; Sir Roderick Mackenzie of Scatwell, Bart.;
William M'Kenzie of Pitlundie, Esq.; John Urquhart
of Kinbeachy, Esq.; and-Duff of Muirtown,
Esq.

<TABLE>

Besides those of the principal and residing heritors, there
   are families of farmers,                              71
Ditto of mealers and tradesmen,                         119
The population in 1755, according to Dr. Webster's
   report, was,                                        1371
The number of souls in 1780, was,                      1345
                       1789,                           1199
                       1792,                           1234

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

in any parish to the north of it.  In 1783, meal and barley sold from 16 s.
to 21 s. the boll, and many were in great want of bread, before the supply
of grain voted by Parliament, arrived; since that period, meal and peace
have sold from 12 s. to 18 s. the boll, and barley from 14 s. to 19 s.  Wheat
is seldom sown, except in small quantities, by the residing heritors, for the
use of their own families.
   As the wages of servants, day-labourers and tradesmen, with the prices
of provisions, are much the same in this, as mentioned in the Statistical
Accounts of adjacent parishes, already published, the reader is referred
to those for information.
   From the want of fuel, manufactures, lime and other means of improv-
ing their situation, the inhabitants of this parish are so poor, that there are
not above 3 farmers in it who use a bit of butcher meat, a fowl, or a bottle
of beer in their family, from one end of the year to the other; nor is there
20 stone of butter and cheese made by them altogether in a season.  Pota-
toes, flummery, bread and brochan, a little cabbage, with potatoes, once
and generally twice a-day, for 9 months, is their invariable bill of fare.

     4


