
			PARTON.                              288

Falbey. They extend to a considerable depth, and are well stored
with trout.
	Botany.--There is an oak of remarkable size on the farm of
Boreland. Its circumference round its trunk is 8 feet, and round
the top of its branches, is 300 feet. There is in Parton Wood,
along the high road, a number of weeping birches, which are not
surpassed by any thing of the kind in this part of the country.

		    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers.--A register of births and baptisms, com-
mencing in the year 1714, has been kept in this parish, but not
with much regularity, until the year 1744, when a complete re-
gister of marriages, births, and deaths commences, and extends
to the year 1783; and from that to the present time, a register
of births and baptisms only have been regularly kept.
	Land-owners.--These, with the valuations of their respective
properties, are,--
						Scots money.
	Miss Glendonwyn of Parton,            L.512  11  2
	Lady Gordon of Letterfourie,            406   8 10
	C. Maxwell, Esq. of Middlebie,          458   0  0
	Edward Fletcher, Esq. of Corsock,       355   0  0

	The total valuation of the parish amounts to L.2545 Scots.
        Antiquities.--Near the church there is an artificial mount 120
yards in circumference at its base, and surrounded with a ditch
from six to nine feet deep. About half a mile north there is ano-
ther nearly twice the circumference of the former, and7 enclosed
with two ditches. At a short distance from this, are the remains
of a small Druidical circle. There are also two cairns in the pa-
rish.
	On the estate of Corsock, in the eastern part of the parish, are
the remains of an old castle, the residence of Robert Nelson of
Corsock, who is made honourable mention of in the "Scots Wor-
thies," as one who suffered severely in the cause of the covenant.
It is now in a very dilapidated state, little indeed remaining but
an old tower.
	The old church, which was superseded by the erection of a new
one in 1834, was built in 1592. It was 72 feet long by 14 wide.
The half of it still remains, and the interior of it has been con-
verted into a burial-place by two of the heritors of the parish.
On the farm of Arvie, there is a flat stone about three feet in
diameter, on which are the marks of what might be supposed a
cow's foot, a horse shoe, the four nails on each side being very


