
                                       BOHARM.                          365

           vale of Boharm to the east; the lower part of the valley of the
           Fiddich to the west ; and a great extent of well cultivated fields
           and beautiful woodlands all around.  Little of the building is now
           standing.  The former Account states, that, by some excavation
           among the ruins, some silver spoons (apostle spoons) were found,
           with round hollow handles, and the mouth or shell completely cir-
           cular.  What became of these relics, the present reporter could
           never ascertain. Under a stone in the floor of the oratory of the
           castld, a silver ring was lately found, having a small shield fixed
           upon it, which exhibited two martial figures.  This is now at
           Arndilly.
             Both record and tradition inform us, that, in very early times,
           there was a bridge over the Spey, near the influx of the Orchil.
           It appears to have been chiefly of wood, and calculated only for
           the passage of pedestrians and horses.   Where tradition says it
           crossed the river, the water is very deep close to the rock on the
           east side, which served for one of the abutments ; but this great
           depth extends but a little way out from the rock, and then the
           stream shallows to the western bank.  Hence one long stretch,
           not beyond the powers of the largest timber of the country would
           suffice for getting over the deeper water, and then the progress
           westward would be comparatively easy by means of supports from
           the bottom; and such, according to tradition, was the nature of
           the structure. If liable to injury by a flood, or to decay by time,
           it could be easily repaired or replaced by the funds allocated for
           the purpose.  This bridge was, for many ages, the only passage
           of the kind across this large, rapid, and dangerous river, and must
           have been of great consequence to the whole of the north.   Its                  
           first erection has been ascribed to the Romans in their progress
           under Severus, and it is known to have been in existence after the
           Reformation.   It is conjectured that the Reformation having ter-
           minated the religious establishment connected with it (to be after-
           wards mentioned), the bridge thus deprived of means for repair or
           restoration yielded to decay soon thereafter, or was finally swept
           away by a flood.  Not a vestige of its ruins has been visible for
           many years.   A ferry-boat was substituted for it, and the passage
           of the river, still very important, came to be called by the anoma-
           lous name of "the boat of bridge," while the farms in the neigh-
           bourhood still retained their former appellations of Bridgetown of
           Spey and Upper Briglands.  After a lapse of about 250 years,
           the boat has, in its turn, given place to another bridge, which was


