
144                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

from Longstruther burn, and lying from that burn to Noblehouse
road, which have been resigned to pasture for several years; one
of these parks in particular, formerly mostly covered with heath,
was sown off for pasture, after having been for two successive sea-
sons fallow green crops with dung, and the last turnip crop eaten
on the field by the sheep; and when I inspected it on the 4th Sep-
tember 1833, it appeared equal to any Lothian park in closeness
and fineness of sward. These ewes are fed through winter with
turnip and hay, administered to them in open shades, with which
every park is provided; a small quantity of green watered meadow
grass being also allowed in spring, when the turnip are getting dry,
to make the ewes more abundant in milk. The sheds are always
kept plentifully littered. The proportion of lambs from the ewes,
upon an average of years, is 141 from the I00. None are sold as
lambs, but kept on through winter and the following summer, and,
excepting what are retained to replace the discarded of the breed-
ing stock, are sold, at from eighteen to twenty months old, to the
butchers, who have uniformly declared that they have found no
twenty month old sheep, even from the best parts of the country,
equal to those from Boreland in fat and tallow. This may be ac-
counted for from the uniform full feeding,-the abundance of shel-
ter from planting and sheds,-and the waving nature of the surface,
admitting free circulation of air, and preventing the molestation of
flies, and thus may be overbalanced the disadvantages of an elevated
situation and cold climate, which probably render vegetables less
nutritious.
   From his great command of manure, bred at home and abroad,
Mr Aitchison can keep about 150 acres in constant tillage, in
crops pretty much in the following assortment: From 12 to 20
acres in wheat; from 30 to 35 acres in barley; from 80 to 35 do.
in oats; 30 to 35 do. grass sown with the preceding crop; 30 acres
in turnips regularly; and the rest (including 30 acres under wood)
in pasture. In the best seasons, a return has been known, per
acre, of 14 bolls of wheat, 10 do. of oats, 8 of barley, old measure.
Bare fallow is generally the preparation for wheat, but this season,
(the tillage land being perfectly clean,) he intends sowing 21 acres
after peas and tares; the tares, of about 8 acres, will be all cut
and consumed in the court-yard, and dunged and sown with wheat
this first week of September. The pease are being shorn just now,
and the land will probably be dunged and sown the second week.
    The average weight and price of his sheep, all sold by January
1833, is as under:


