
                             ABERDEEN.                         33

some as staunch supporters in the town and its neighbourhood, as
are to be found in any other part of the country.
   The old parish of St Nicholas had, from an early period, three
churches, the East, the West, and Grayfriars, the two former of
which had been, for a period of at least 150 years, collegiate charges,
and the town, though constituting but one parish, was divided
into districts under the special charge of each of the incumbents.
As the population increased, additional church accommodation
became requisite, and several chapels of ease were at various times
erected, as is noted below more particularly.  By a decree of the
Court of Teinds in 1828, the parish of St Nicholas was divided
into six parishes.  By a subsequent Act of the General Assembly,
the chapels of ease were each connected with a parochial district
quoad sacra; the effect of these two measures was to increase the
number of parish churches to ten; and within the last few weeks
a congregation of Original Burgher Seceders has been received
back into connection with the Church of Scotland, and is about
to have a parochial charge quoad sacra allotted to its minister.
By this division of the town, a very important object has been
attained, inasmuch as parochial superintendence is not now so
completely out of the power of the ministers as it formerly was
though still the population of most of the parishes is so great as
to prevent that close and intimate connection between the minister
and his people, which the parochial svstem, if properly followed
out, should produce and maintain.  And when it is considered
that each minister, in addition to the parochial charge of an al-
lotted district, must also have a congregational charge, in conse-
quence of many of his hearers not being resident within that dis
trict, it will be at once admitted that there is both room and, cause
for a still further division.
   The places of worship in Aberdeen in connection with th Es-
tablished Church are the following:-1. The West Church,
which stands on the site of the old church of St Nicholas.  This
building having become ruinous and unsafe, was disused as a place
of worship in 1732.  The present church was founded in 1751,
and opened for Divine service in 1755.  It ceased to be A colle-
giate charge on the death of the Rev. Dr Brown.  2. The East
Church stands where the quire of St Nicholas formerly was.  It was
erected in 1834,-the quire, which had been till then used, hav-
ing become so ruinous, that it wasjudged necessary to pull it
down.  This was a collegiate charge until the division of the town
   ABERDEEN.                                C

