
538                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

charity, of a great hospital, and of a general refuge for the dis-
tressed debtor, the weary traveller, the friendless pauper, and the
afflicted invalid, is now silent and abandoned to the lonely visits of
the mountain sheep.  Some hardly perceptible tumuli, overgrown
with herbage, faintly indicate the site of prostrate dwellings.  Slight
irregularities of surface, with not a tombstone or the small tumulus
of a grave, dimly mark the limits of a cemetery.  A single aisle
of the church, rising amidst a dreary sward of heath, and preserved
from the common ruin by its inclosing the burial-place of the Mait-
land of Pogbie family, is the sole memorial of Soutra, and the only
monitor, on this once stirring and famous area, of the instability
and vanity of the institutions of mortal man.
  In the immediate vicinity of the aisle is a small piece of ground
called Beatman's Acre, with which-the following tradition is con-
nected:-King James V., who indulged the habit of travelling
incognito, came one day to the house of a person called Pringle,
who lived at Soutra Hill, from whom be requested lodgings for
the night.  The goodman, delighted with the humour and con-
versation of his guest, directed his wife to take down from the
baulks the ben that sat next the cock, and to prepare it for the stran-
ger's supper.  The monarch, in return for this hospitality, made
Pringle (and his descendants) proprietor of the ground, of which
he had till then been tacksman, on condition of him and his heirs
presenting a hen to the king and his successors in the sovereignty.
This property remained in the possession of Pringle's descendants
till about twenty years ago, when it was purchased by the proprie-
tor of Woodcot, in the heart of vibose lands it lay,-the Pringle
family retaining only a burying-place at Soutra, with a monumen-
tal stone, built into the eastern gable of the aisle.
  About half a mile to the south of the aisle, and directly on the
Girtbgate, lies a small spot, of an appearance quite distinct from
the adjoining heath.  It is called the King's Inch.  Being the
property of no individual, it has been used from time immemorial
as a resting-place by drovers for their cattle, in taking them from
distant market to another; and it is wonderful, that though
there is no direct road to it now, and though it lies quite out of
the way, drovers of the present day, especially from the High-
lands, continue to avail themselves of it.
  On the north side of the hill, a little below where the hospital
stood, there is a fountain of excellent water, which was dedicated
to the Holy Trinity, still called Trinity Well.  This well though



