

488                             ARGYLESHIRE.

pacity with singular correctness and propriety. Two of the vo-
lumes of the records, during his incumbency, have unfortunately
been lost, those, namely, which contained the minutes of Presby-
tery from 1681 till 1704, and from 1714 till the period of his
death in 1726. From his father Mr Campbell inherited the farm
of Drimvuick, in the upper part of this parish ; but, on being ad-
mitted to his charge, he exchanged these lands with one of his re-
lations for the farm of Achnaba, which, though inferior in value,
lay more contiguous to the great body of his people, and which he
improved and embellished to an extent, at that time, uncommon in
this part of the country. Some of the silver firs, lime, and other trees
which were planted by him still remain, and are of great size and
beauty. As a minister, Mr Campbell appears to have been laborious.
" He often travelled," says his descendant, "to Mull, Morven, and
Ardnamurchan, in order to preach the gospel of salvation to
the inhabitants of these remote parts of the country." "Next to
his professional studies, his chief delight were the mathematics
and astronomy, though comparatively few of the many manuscripts
which he left at his death, are now to be found."*

<FOOTNOTE>"I saw," adds Mr Gregorson, "an essay, in the handwriting of Mr Campbell,
'On the Being and Attributes of God ; the argument seeming to be the same as
that employed by Dr Clarke, though written before Dr Clarke's was published. This
essay was lent many years ago to a friend now deceased. It has never been return-
ed. Mr Campbell corresponded in Latin with Sir Isaac Newton. The letters
were taken away from bis papers before they came to my possession ; but the late
Mr Macdougall of GaManach, Mr Campbell of Achlian, grandson to Mr Colin
Campbell, and the late Rev. Mr M'Nicol, minister of Lismore, frequently told me they
had seen a number of these letters. I believe many ofthem were burnt through care-
lessness, when the papers of the family were removed on the sale of Achnaba.  The
annexed list of papers will show some of Mr Campbell's literary and scientific corre-
spondents.  Some of the papers I gave to Principal Baird, and they were perused by
him, Dr Lee, and Professors Leslie and Wallace with much interest. I may state
that some of Mr Campbell's correspondents write to him, that, 'if it were not for
his vicious mcdesty, he might publish what would make them ashamed of their poor
productions."
  "Parcels of letters and of papers belonging to the late Rev. Colin Campbell:
  1. Eight letters from A. Pitcairn, physician in Edinburgh, relative tothe scientific
and mathematical publications of the day. One of these letters incloses a MSS. by
a Mr Campbell, advocate, Edinburgh ; arguing the descent of the British nations
from the Gauls, from the identity of language. 2. Letter supposed from Dr Gilbert
Burnet, Bibliop of Salisbury. 3. Letters from Professor Simson of Glasgow Univer-
sity. 4. Letter from Colin M'Laurin,--one of them containing an essay, " De Viri-
bus, &c. 5. Letters from Edward Llhyd. 6. Letter from Dr Cheyne, &c. 7. Letter
from Donald Campbell, son of Mr Colin: Solution of a problem, in the handwriting
of Mr Colin ; Letter from Lord Murray requesting Mr Campbell to calculate the
nativity of a remarkable child born in Holland. 8. Paper On the Immortality of the
Soul; to which is stitched a disquisition "On Meteors;" on "the Lawfullness of
Episcopacy ;" "Demonrtration oP Existence of God;" "Theological Treatise on our
Knowledge," &c. 9. Scientific papers: on Dialling, Problems, &c. 10. A parch-
ment WurLd volume of tables and problems, and containing a variety of papers,

