
                     GREENOCK.                           465

   grammar school being instituted, the herittors by some agreement,
   of which no record can be found were released from the burden
   of supporting a parish school; and the education of the youth was
   left to the grammar school teacher or teachers, and to such teach-
   ers, of English reading and arithmetic as might venture to com-
   mence an undertaking of that nature at their own risk.
        Since that period the population of Greenock has increased to
   such an amount, as to tender the want of a p`rochial school a se-
   evil to the community. The instruction of the children of
   the poor and working-classes being entirely in the hands of adven,
   ture teachers, it is not surprising that the school-fees were at one
   time so high in all of them as to present a serious obstacle in the
   way of a working-man's obtaining the unspeakable blessing of an
   elementary education to a numerous family. Accordingly, about
   five years ago, it was ascertained that not more than one in thir-
   teen of the whole population was in attendance at the schools, of
   every description Within the parish,-in other words, the propor-
   tion of young persons receiving education was scarcely one-half of
   the proportion found in our country parishes.
        This growing evil has been in some measure palliated by the
   erection of the Highlander's Academy-a handsome building
   commenced and finished about two years ago in the south-west
   part of the town, having apartments and masters for two schools of
   an infant and a juvenile school, where the ordinary acquirements
   of reading, writing, may be had at a comparatively moderate
   rate. This excellent seminary owes its existence to the indefati-
   gable exertions of a few individuals. It was built, partly
   subscription, and partly by a grant from Goverment,-the late
   Sir Lichael Shaw Stewart, generously giving the ground at the                                          y
   lowest feu-duty permitted under the deed of entail. No eexpense
   has been spared in making, the establishments as perfect as pos-
   sible. A large space has been enclosed for play-ground, and
   the usual apparatus of infant and juvenile schools, both within
   doors and without, are liberally furnished. The directors have
   been eminently successful in obtaining highly qualifid teachers,
   and have thus attracted to the Academy a considerable number of
   the children of families in the middel ranks. It is called the
   "Highlanders' Academy," beacuse originally intended for the child-
   ren of Highlanders; and by the rules of the institution a prefe-
   rence is given to these in the event of an overflowing attendance.
        Long before the erction of the Highlanders' Academy, a


