
             COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                      303

therefore, is far from being devoid of interest, there are many ap-
pearances tending to show, in addition to numerous notices scat-
tered throughout the works of our older chroniclers. Many re-
mains of military stations and fortifications may be traced in dif
ferent parts of the parish,-particularly in the neighbourhood of
the deans, which at one time were all very formidable and import-
ant passes. Some of these remains are evidently British; others,
appear to be Danish. Of the former description, a very fine spe-
cimen is to be seen on the summit of Ewieside Hill; and of the
latter, an equally interesting specimen occurs at the mouth of
Dunglass Dean, on the summit of a lofty precipice overhanging
the sea, from the shore of which, by very great labour, a covered
way has at one time been cut through the rock, leading, by a wind-
ing course, to the fortification above. About three years ago, when
this ancient encampment was broken up for the purpose of con-
verting it into arable land, a great number of human skeletons,
many in very good preservation, were dug up. The mode of in-
terment had been very simple,-four large rough stones serving
the purpose of both grave and coffin. Vestiges of the Romans
may also be traced in several parts of the parish,-many urns hav-
ing in various places been turned up by the plough, with several
articles decidedly of Roman workmanship.
   In 1544, the English army, under the Earl of Hertford, passed
through this parish in returning from their desolating inroad into
Scotland; and in 1548 it formed also part of the route of the Earl
of Somerset's army in his memorable expedition. Several very
curions accounts of the passage of both armies through the parish,
particularly of their passage of the Pease and Tower Deans, are
still in existence, and show how very important, in a military point
of view, were these valleys or ravines.
   Nearly in the centre of the parish, or about a mile east from
the village of Cockburnspath, stand the ruins of an old castle,
commonly called Cockburnspath Tower. It does not seem ever
to have been a, place of great extent, having been evidently built
to protect the strong pass or ravine, on the edge of which it
stands. * So early as 1073, this castle of Colbrandspath ap-
pears to have belonged to the Earl of Dunbar and March. Such
is the statement of Boecius, who also gives the following ac-

<FOOTNOTE>In Grose's Antiquities there is a sketch of this tower, regarding which the au-
thor remarks: "If the appellation of Cockburnspath, by which it is at present called,
be a corruption of Colbrandspath, as, from many circumstances, seems to be the case,
this was once a place of great note and consequence."


