
     General Appendix to [Vol. vi.

fles, are occasionally worn by all ranks of men.  Duffle and
silk cloaks, printed and muslin gowns, by all ranks of wo-
men.  And the gentry can only be distinguished from ple-
beians by their superior manner, and by that elegant simpli-
city in dress which they now admire.  Linen, always washed
with soap, is frequently changed; and cutaneous disorders
are now as rare as they were formerly frequent.

   Manners.-To a rude age, in point of manners, we are
ready to give more credit than is justly due.  Every age dis-
plays virtues and vices peculiar to itself; and man, whether
barbarous or refined, is still man.  Tradition, and the re-
cords of session, where the memory of sinners of every rank
is duly preserved, unite in declaring, that, among our fa-
thers, the robust vices prevailed in a great degree.  It was
not uncommon for a number of gentlemen to dine with
a neighbour, and to adjourn with him to the nearest ta-
vern, where they sometimes drank, and quarrelled, and slept
for days together.  Their example was too closely copied by
wadsetters and substantial farmers. And even the lowest of
the people were too liberal in consigning their money or
goods to the brewfter wife (the hostess of the tavern), who,
in those days, was always a person of parochial consequence.
Funerals were disgraced by riot and drunkenness, and the
body of the friend or the neighbour was duly laid in the dust
by a staggering, babbling multitude*.  Public meetings, who-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In one division of this county, where it was believed that the ghost of the
person last buried kept the gate of the church-yard 'till relieved by the' next
victim of death, a singular scene occurred when two burials were to take place
in one church yard on the same day.  Both parties staggered forward as fast as
possible to consign their respective friend in the first place to the dust.  If they
met at the gate, the dead were thrown down, 'till the living decided by blows
whose ghost should be condemned to porter it.


