
     of Kintore.

able disposition of the people.  In what is properly the 
town, without counting the rest of the freedom, there are
57 dwelling houses, some of them possessed by single per-
sons; and it contains 228 souls; 94 males, and 134 fe-
males; and there are 54 hores, 168 black cattle, and 300
sheep.  A considerable part of the old parish, is within the
freedom of the burgh, till you go about a mile southward*.
It contains, with the new parish, above 7000 acres, (without
counting a large common, between Kintore and Kinellar),
most of it has been measured .  It is bounded on the N. and 
N. E. by the river Don, and on the E. partly by the same
river.  Its extent is near 6 English miles from N. to S.
3 from E. W.  The grounds about the town of Kintore,
which has had on the one side, the head of the forest, and 
on the other, lies along the haughs of the Don, are flat; the
rising is gradual to the W. and S. W. to the N. and to the
E. the rising is more sudden to hills; but the S. part of the
parish, till you come to a ridge that bounds the parish, is
in general marshy.  Yet the marshes empty themselves in-
to a stream that runs past Kintore, which shows them to be 
considerably above the level of Kintore.  The other streams
generally run from the west into the Don. The haugh here
is broad, and following the windings of the don, near 3
miles long; it is very deep in foil, and is enriched by the
overflowings of the river, and needs no manure, for the ri-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1754, or 1755, that part of the parish of Kinkell, which
lies to the west of the Don, viz, the lands of Creechy and Thainstown,
were by decreet, annexed to Kintore, and the other part to Mount-kiggie,
now called the parish of Kinkell, or Keithhall, and in 1760 the annexation
took place, by the death of the incumbent at Kimkell.  This parish
belonged formerly to the Presbytery of Aberdeen, but an act of Synod
in 1702, was for a time annexed to Garioch, and has continued in that
Presbytery ever since.


