
                           FEARN.                                  317

<TABLE>

Number of families,					            88
                     chiefly employed in agriculture,                      67
                            in trade, manufactures, and handicraft,        11

                                IV.-INDUSTRY.

        Agriculture.-After setting apart 170 acres as a full complement
for plantations and woodlands of every description, the parish at pre-
sent is parcelled out into 16 farms, varying from 50 to 300 acres of
arable surface, with their several proportions of moor, hill, or open
pasture. L. 2 Sterling may be stated as the common rent of ordi-
nary soils. The quality of the open pasture is so variable, that
its value is commonly determined in cumulo. No vestige of an
ancient village is to be seen in the parish, nor any thing to warrant
anticipations of such an erection for a long time to come. Near-
ly the whole population may, therefore, be comprised under the
limited classification of farmer and cott`r.
	In the face of many difficulties, the farmers still maintain the
credit of that respectable order of men, atid prosecute their work
with great perseverance, and much aptness to avail themselves of
every improvement which their own experience may suggest, or
which may be gathered from the experience of others. The soil,
consisting generally of a free rich loam, is well adapted to the
turnip husbandry; and with the combined advantages of their open
pastures, and the early and plentiful herbage which belongs to
this species of agriculture, they devote much of their attention to the
rearing of live-stock, and bringing it to market in full condition.
To estimate one-third of the farmer's means as depending on this
branch of his resources, is not overrating its value. Were he to
limit himself entirely to his own rearing, the aggregate of the pa-
rish would then furnish, as nearly as a general estimate can de-
termine, 210 bestial 34 stone each, and 330 sheep all in high
condition for the butcher. The introduction, of late years, of bone-
dust manure, has contributed greatly to promote this branch of
husbandry, and bids fair to afford still more extensive advantages.
It can scarcely be said that horses are reared for the market. The
stock maintained for the farmer's use, though not of the heaviest
description, is active and well `dapted for his work.
	Wheat, barley, and oats, are almost the only kinds of grain
ever sown. Rye is very rarely to be seen. Of the pulse crops,
beans have been very little proved, and pease of all kinds are es-
teemed unprofitable. On account of the heavy carriage, potatoes
can scarcely be said to be cultivated for the market.



