
     324                       PERTHSHIRE.

     from its size.  Its mean length is 2800 feet, and its mean breadth
     1950; it would, therefore, according to the Polybean system, hold
     about 26,000 men, and this was what induced General Roy to
     believe that it was in this camp that Agricola held his great army,
     previous to his dividing it into three bodies, in order to meet and
     conquer the Caledonians.
        The form of this camp is oblong, but not so regular as tbat
     of a parallelogram,-a fact which seems to prove that the Ro-
     mans did not stick close to mathematical nicety, where the nature
     of the ground did not well permit.  The public road to the north,
     via Crieff, known of old, as the military road, enters by its south
     gate, and so has cut down one-half of the epaulment which cover-
     ed it; but the other half still remains rather entire. The north
     gate is a little east of the road, covered by a straight traverse, and
     another gate on the west is in the same way protected.  On the
     east side, towards the north, there is a gate that has been defend-
     ed, not only by a square redoubt, within the lines, but also by a
     clavicle,-from which circumstance, it may be supposed that a
     weak legion was there quartered.
        On the west side of this great camp is a smaller one of an oblong
     shape.  Its size is 1910 by 1340 feet, and it would afford accom-
     modation for 12,000 men.  To the antiquary, this one is very in-
     teresting, especially in tracing the itinera of Agricola.  It is evi-
     dently higher in position than the other camps-one-b`lf of it lies
     within the other camp, which is adjacent to it-and the fact of its
     being left so very entire, would incline us to fix upon it, as the
     abode of the third part of the Roman army that remained with
     their leader, whilst the others were encamped at Strageath, and
     Dealgin Ross; for the entireness of the camp proves that it was
     the last occupied, and that Agricola left it in great haste with his
     third division, to aid the 9th legion, who were then almost sub-
     dued, in the camp of Dealgin Ross, on the plains of Comrie.
        As to the fact of these being the camps of Agricola, we shall only
     refer to Tacitus. We take up the history of Agricola while at the
     isthmus between the estuaries of the Forth and the Clyde, and trace
     his steps onwards to the Grampians; and, from the plain reading Of
     the Latin text, throughout the fourth year, it appears he was employ-
     ed there in erecting forts to secure the conquests which he had made
     on the other side.  This was the case, unldss we adopt the very
     improbable notion that this two rivers named Glota and Bodotria


