
                         BUNKLE AND PRESTON.                  117

vision of the county are beds of sandstone-slate, of indurated marl,
gypsum, and conglomerate. These occur irregularly, frequently
alternating with each other. Along both sides of the river, wherever
these strata are exposed to the action of the weather, we meet
with abundance of clay marl, evidently occasioned by the decom-
position of the beds of indurated marl and soft sandstone, which
latter frequently contain a considerable portion of calcareous mat-
ter; and, therefore, as a natural consequence, the soil on the
lower lands, particularly along the course of the river, is rich and
loamy, while on the higher grounds it is generally light and poor.
   There is a copper mine, on the property of Lord Douglas, at
the farm of Hoardweel, close by the river. About sixty years ago
it was worked by an English company to a considerable extent.
As the ore was at first rich, the work was for some years carried
on with advantage; but the vein afterwards ceasing to yield a suf-
ficient quantity of ore, it was given up. In 1825, however, the
work was again resumed by another company, likewise from Eng-
land, and though for several months it was prosecuted with appa-
rent success, it was a second time abandoned without any reason
being assigned for such a step.
   Botany.-Bunkle wood affords considerable scope for the bo-
tanist. It appears especially rich in cryptogamic, plants. Among
the rarer kinds observed in it, we may notice the Listera cordata,
Trollius Europaeus (globe-flower,) and a variety of the Lonicera,
(honey-suckle,) with the leaves very deeply cut towards the extre-
mities,-a variety, we presume, hitherto unnoticed by botanists.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Eminent Men.-Two individuals, distinguished in literature and
science, belonged to this parish. Dr James Hutton, author of a
Theory of the Earth, was born at Edinburgh in 1726. He was
bred to medicine, but afterwards turning his attention to agricul-
ture, he came to reside in this parish on his small estate of Slighs-
houses, and was the first who introduced the improved mode of hus-
bandry into this part of the country. To acquire a competent know-
ledge of this science, he went to Norfolk, where he staid for some-
time; and when he returned in 1754, he brought with him a plough-
man from that county, whom he employed in improving his own
property, and thus set the first example of good farming which had
been seen in this district. *

<Footnote>His celebrated Theory of the Earth might have been more worthy of notice,
had he not seemed too much to overlook the agency and providence of the Deity, by



