
90                       ARGYLESHIRE.


it loses itself in Lochawe. Its breadth may average that of the
Awe. It is generally shallow, until it approaches the termination
of its course, when it acquires a much greater depth, and becomes
slow and sluggish in its motion, as if unwilling to mingle its waters
with those of the lake. It is a lovely stream, and in exquisite
keeping with the ever-varying yet ever-beautiful scenery through
which it flows, and of which it constitutes so very essential an ele.
ment, and prominent a feature.
   It presents no falls of any great magnitude. Those of Cait-
nish are chiefly interesting, frorn the grotesque and fantastic
shapes into which the incessant action of the water has moulded
the rock over which it urges its noisy and angry career.
Geology and MineraloRy.--The greatest part of the parish is
composed of stratified rocks of the primary series. Mica slate
and gneiss chiefly prevail. Both these rocks change into one an-
other very gradually, so that it is difficult to decide where the one
ends and the other begins. The mica slate receives felspar into
its composition, and if the felspar increases so far as to equal or
exceed the quartz and mica, gneiss is formed. Gneiss occupies
the most northern parts of the district, and is most fully developed
at Bendourain and Lochtolla. The bearing of the strata is from
north-east to south-west, almost parallel with the direction of the
Grampians.
   Gneiss and mica slate, especially the latter, include subordin-
ate strata of talc, chlorite, hornblende slate and clay slate, and lime-
stone. The limestone, however, is not found in a very pure state,
but much mixed with mica and quartz, so as to appear as mica
slate, where the quartz is supplanted by lime. Limestone occurs
near the manse on the banks of the Urchay, and a bed of it ex-
tends westward for miles from the farm of Sockoch in Glenorchy,
along the face of the range of hills that divides the parish from
Kilchrenan and Inverary.
Igneous rocks appear on a large scale at Black mount and
near Lochawe. Granite and porphyry are the chief representa-
tives of these r¢cks. Granite occupies a large space at Black-
mount, Glenetive, and Glenc•. It is highly crystalline; its
relation to porphyry is remarkable. The porphyry, being imper-
fectly crystallized granite, is found in veins in the perfect granite,
and projects also occasionally in fissures in the neighbouring mica
slate and gneiss. The Igneous rocks, granite, and porphyry have
altered the nearest strata of schist; the mica is found melted, and


