
                    CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                        579

church collections, interest of capital, mortcloth, proclamation-
dues, and a mortification of L.10 annually.  The church col-
lections for the support of the poor for the last seven years, in-
cluding the sacramental ones, average L.58, 0s. 7 1/4d. yearly; and
when it is considered that the population is entirely agricultural,
the writer has great satisfaction in recording the amount, as it
evinces the liberality of the parishioners, and also the regularity
with which they attend public worship.  The interest of capital *
(L. 425, at 3 1/2 per cent.) is L.14, 17s. 6d.  The mortcloth
and proclamation-dues average L.5, 6s.; and a non-resident
heritor gives to the poor annually a donation of L.5.  In addition
to these funds, there is L.10 annually mortified to the poor by Dr
Anderson, late of St Christopher's, a native of this parish.  He
also, at same time, mortified L.20 annually for a free-school to
be kept within the parish of Chapel of Garioch; but unfortunately
for us, added, 11 or elsewhere in North Britain, as my aforesaid
trustees shall think it most expedient." This addition has hither-
to deprived the parish of the benefit of this school; for although it
is much wanted by the distant population, for whom teachers can
with great difficulty be obtained, as the remuneration is so small,-
yet Dr Anderson's Trustees have never as yet seen the expediency
of implementing this part of the testament so far as Chapel of
Garioch is concerned; but have, as I have every reason to believe,
opened a school in some other part of the country, and pay the
schoolmaster this mortified sum.
   The average number of poor persons receiving parochial aid is
35, * and almost the whole of them are old persons.  The allowance
to each averages from 9s. to 15s. per quarter, and in the quarter
in which the sacrament is dispensed, all of them receive 2s. ad-
ditional.  There is also a fatuous pauper, who receives annual-
ly from L.7 to L. 8.  Occasional aid is likewise given to poor
persons, who are not upon the roll. Some of the resident heri-
tors are very attentive to the poor upon their estates, and give to
several of them from one to two bolls of meal annually, together
with a free house, garden, and fire; indeed, the whole of the

<FOOTNOTE>The capital when the former Statistical Account was published was L.106, and
till within these eighteen years no farther addition was made to the funds.  Since that
period, however, it has been increased by legacies, collections, &c. to the sum of
L. 425, and about a month ago, another legacy of L.90 has been added, so that the
capital for the support of the poor is now above L.500.
          The number of poor upon the roll is now 64, and the expenditure has increas-
ed proportionally.


