
     of Auchtertoul.

healthy; being neither so near the sea, as to render it too
thin and penetrating, nor at so great a distance from it, as to
render it thick and unwholesome.  There is only one small
lake in the parish (Camilla Loch), in which there are some
perch.  The lake takes its name from the old house of Ca-
milla*, adjacent to it; which was so called after one of the
Countesses of Moray, whose name was Campbell.

   Population.-With respect to the ancient state of the popu-
lation, it cannot be exactly ascertained.  But from the register
of marriages and baptisms, winch extends as far back as the
year 1675, compared with the registers that are kept at pro-
lent, it appears to have been formerly considerably more po-
pulous than it is now.  This seems owing to the practice of
uniting farms, which has taken place here, as well as in many
other parts of the country.  What used formerly to be 2 or 3
farms, is now thrown into 1, and rented by the same tenant;
so that the number of families in the parish, is thereby de-
creased; and as there is no trade or manufactures carried on
in the village, to draw the people in from the country, the
population is considerably diminished.  Since 1755, that di-
minution has amounted to 55, the population, at present, being
334, and according to Dr. Webster's return, having been 389
souls.  This tare for enlarging and uniting farms, which

<FOOTNOTE>

*Its ancient name was Hallyards, when it belonged to the family of the
Skenes.  It is laid to have been the rendezvous of the Fife lairds at the rebellion
in the year 1715.  When James Vth of Scotland was on his road to the
palace of Falkland, after the defeat of his army on the English border, under
the command of Oliver Sinclair, his favourite, he lodged all night in the house
of Hallyards, as he passed, where he was courteously received by the Lady of
Grange,  ancient and godlie matrone," as Knox calls her.  It seems then to
have belonged to the Kirkcaldies of Grange, a family of considerable note in the
history of Scotland.  It is now a ruin.


