
                            CUPAR.                                  17

of their poor, and treated in all respects as if it were their sole and
inalienable property. The house contains accommodation for ten
or twelve paupers, living two together in the same apartment. And
the yard is let every year for the behoof of the session. As there
is a great want of room for burying in the present churchyard, the
session have resolved to feu or let out the yards for burying-ground
according to a plan which will reflect credit upon the place.
  In addition to this place of accommodation for the poor, which is
of very ancient standing, the late David Knox, Esq. of London, who
was a native of Cupar, has left the sum of L. 3000 Sterling, for the
purpose of building and endowing an asylum for females above fifty
years of age, who have seen better days. It is judiciously to be
placed under trustees not officially connected with the town, and,
according to the conditions expressed in Mr Knox's will, it pro-
mises to be of great benefit. The plan of the building has been
already drawn out by an eminent architect in London, the site has
been fixed upon, and, through the active benevolence of the testa-
tor's sister, Miss Knox, the institution will, in all probability, be
completed and occupied in the course of the present year.
  The trades' corporations were formerly the only friendly socie-
ties that existed. Their funds, however, being now all squander-
ed away, except those of the weaver trade, who have a piece of
ground which they are feuing out for building, they contribute very
little, if any thing at all, to their decayed members; and it is no un-
common thing to find one who once plumed himself on the honour
of some civic office, either becoming himself, or allowing his widow
to become, a burden upon the funds of the sessions
  Saving Bank.-There is a savings bank; but from the very low,
rate of interest which is allowed upon the money deposited in it, it
meets with but little support. The deposits altogether do not ex-
ceed L. 150.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The parish of Cupar presents still
an engaging specimen of the working of the poor laws of Scotland.
Great as the population is, there is no such thing as any regular
assessment for the poor. They are supported, therefore, by the
collections at the doors of the Established Churcb,-by a poors'
box carried through the town on Saturdays,-by the dues upon
marriages and births,-by the exertions of a female society for the
benefit of aged and decayed females,-by a fund of L. 450, left
under the management of the town by the late Dr Gray already men-
tioned,-and by voluntary charity, exercised by private individuals
  FIFE.


