
     of Kincardine.

intersects this parish.-There are no stones of any kind in
the soil of the carse, nor are there any appearances of rock,
excepting in the emincences of Craig Forth, the hill of Dript,
and the Nadd, and for a small extent of the bed of the river at
the cruives of Craig Forth, and again at the bridge of Dript.
The flatness of the Carse, its being so little above the level of
the sea, the nature of the soil, which is fleech, become dry,
intermixed with sea shells, together with the appearace of
some of its banks in this neighbourhood, consisting of sand, in
which the marks of undulations are still evident wherever the
surface is removed, render it highly probable, that the soil of
the Carse has been accumulated by the sea; and that antiently
the Firth of Forth has received the river twenty miles nearer its
sounds, than it now does.
   The dry-field rises gently from the Carse on one side, and
from the Teath on the other.-  The soil is a light loam.
Many nodules of whin stone, and some few of plumbcake-stone,
are still found on the unimproved parts, and are a great ob-
struction to good tillage.  In the improved grounds they have
been blown with powder, at a considerable expence, and re-
moved.-The bottom is generally till.
   It is estimated that more rain, by 6 inches yearly, falls here,
than in the east coasts of Scotland.  On the other hand, there
is less snow, than in those countries.  The heath on the moss
of Kincardine is scarcely ever covered by snow*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Rheumatisms prevail much among persons of middle age, and strangers
are still more apt to be attacked with them than the natives.  Slow fevers and
fluxes are frequent in the end of autumn.  They seem to be owing chiefly to
the superabundance of moisture, that proving often a very rainy season, and they
are rendered more lingering, and more infectious, by great inattention to clean-
liness.
   There are no instances of extraordinary longevity in the parish; but there
are several of persons arriving at a good age.  One of the present Elders is 85;


