
172                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

land may be L. 1, 5s., and of the pasture land 10s. per acre. The
price of land in the parish varies, of course, according to its qua-
lity: good land, per statute acre, has been sold as high as L. 100;
but the average price of good land may be considered about L. 50
per acre, and of pasture land L. 10. The price of land is here gene-
rally calculated to be equal to twenty-seven years' rent. Owing to
the fall in the price of produce, the value of land is much deteriorat-
ed and pasture-land especially, has fallen nearly one-half in value.
The total land-rent of the parish, as nearly as I can ascertain, is
L. 5600. In 1797, it was L. 2104; and, in the recollection of
individuals then alive, it had increased in value three times. Two
or three proprietors farm their own land.
   At the beginning of this century the spirit of improvement was
very great. In 1797, there were only 1170 acres under tillage;
whereas now, there are upwards of 2600 (or probably many more.)
At the end of last century, sufficient corn was not grown in the
parish for home consumption; now a considerable proportion is
exported; while yet the same number of sheep is maintained.
The farms are cultivated according to the newest and most ap-
proved methods, and in no respect is the system or mode of agri-
culture inferior to that of any other part of the country; but, from
the high state of the rents at present, there is no encouragement
whatever given by the landlords to their tenants for the improve-
rment of their farms.
   Commerce.-There are no branches of commerce or manufac-
tures carried on in this parish, with the exception, perhaps, of the
illicit commerce of smuggling whisky across the border, which, I
have said, formerly gave employment and subsistence to one-fifth
or one-sixth of the inhabitants of the two villages. Of this com-
modity, I am informed that from L. 10,000 to L. 20,000 worth
annually have been sold from Yetholm into England in this man-
ner; but now the quantity disposed of illegally for the English mar-
ket is scarcely worth calculating. Within the last three or four
years, effectual means have been taken by a stricter police, and by
heavy fines imposed upon delinquents, to put an end to this de-
moralizing and illicit trafic, which have succeeded in a great mea-
sure for the present. A considerable trade is also carried on here
in buying cows in Northumberland, and driving them for sale to
the Edinburgh markets.
   Rate of Wages.-Masons, 2s. or 2s. 6d. per day; carpenters, 2s. or
2s. 6d.; tailors, 1s. 6d. with meat; women labourers, 8d. to 1s.; men
do. in summer, 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d.; do. do. in harvest, 2s. with meat.


