
        146                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

        plain, that, long before the memory of man, their measurement
        must have been founded on actual mensuration by the chain.
          The grass-land, outfield, or in arable, was assigned in fixed
        proportions to these different divisions; and a certain rent, vary-
        ing in different townlands, was laid on the grass-land, and a cer-
        tain quantity of grain to be paid for the corn-land of these various
        penny, halfpenny, farthing, and octo lands.  The townland of
        Papigoe, for instance, in the neigbbourhood of the town of Wick,
        WAS divided into fifteen penny-lands, one halfpenny-land, and half
        an octo.  Every penny-land paid eleven bolls of corn, or farm as
        it was called, and no money.  The townland of Kilminister was
        red into thirty-six penny-lands, each one of which paid four bolls
        of farm, and L.5, 6s. 8d. Scots as, rent of the grassland.   To
        render the state of matters still more opposed to all improvement,
        the custom of run-rig was common.  This most barbarous cus-
        tom was said to have originated in times of universal and inces-
        sant feuds, as a preservative against one neighbour's setting fire
        to the field of another, and to make the whole townland equally
        anxious to resist an enemy in case of invasion.
           These penny-lands, &c., were let to small tenants, who, be-
        sides the rent already specified, yielded an infinite variety of
        minute services to the landlord.  The tenants of each penny-
        land, for instance, had to bring out their own plough, fully equip-
        ped, early in spring, and plough half an acre of oat-land in the mains,
        -- to send a man to sow the seed,--to send their harrows and har-
        row the ground,--to send two persons to carry on the horses'
        backs, for there was not a cart in all the parish, the manure in
        straw baskets, called caizies, for the bear-land,-to lay the manure
        on,-to send a plough and till the bear-land,--to sow the Seed,-
        harrow it with their own harrows: in summer, . to mow the na-
        tural grass,-to make it into hay,-to cart it,.---to carry it to the
        yard with their own carts -to build it into stacks,-to send a per-
        son to weed the corn,-to cast 400 feal for building houses, and
        300 divots for thatching them: in harvest, to cut down a certain
        quantit of corn,--to carry it, and build it in the stack-yard,--to
        furnish a certain,number of winlins to thatch the mains' stacks, a
        certain quantity of drawn straw to thatch the mains' houses, and
        a certain, quantity of simmins. that is, plaited straw-ropes, to bind
        down the thatch,-to thrash a certain quantity of corn in the
        barn,-to dry, it in the kiln,-to carry, it, to the mill,-to carry the
        meal thence to the garnel, and to ship it on board for exportation,


