
444                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

level of the parish, and, though rather shaded, no wood appears
ever to have existed there.
   Forests and Plantation.-Upon this subject the writer feels
happy in being able to communicate the following valuable in-
formation, with which he has been favoured by the Honourable
the Master of Forbes, who is proprietor of the lands of Brux,
which are situate in this and the neighbouring parishes. Since
the year 1816, be has planted or sown above 2000 acres,
and the following is the result of his extensive experience.-" The
larch, spruce, and Scots fir are thriving well both on Coreen and
Caille-var, and on the lower parts of those hills, oak, ash, elm,
Spanish chestnut, plane, and gean-trees, grow rapidly.  Although
occasionally  nipt by the climate in Winter, they average annually
a valuable increase of wood, both in height and circumference.  I
do not think that the raising of oak and Spanish chestnut from the
seed, without transplanting, has bad a sufficient trial in this part
of the island.  It seems to me that it would answer better than
planting seedlings from a nursery.  Those that I have raised
from seed, in land not broken up from heath, have succeeded
well; the higher parts of the hills have, after burning the heath,
been very successfully sown with larch and Scots fir; but the
larch raised in this way, as well as those which have been trans-
planted, are not free from the general disease so common to this
species of wood in this quarter."  It may be remarked, that, if the
common etymology of the name " Caillevar" be correct, viz.
Caill‚," a wood, and " Var," a hill, i. e. " the hill of wood," it
has once more, through the spirited exertions of the proprietor,
become entitled to its ancient appellation, being at the present
moment a thriving forest.  It may be here added, that, along the
banks of the Don, there is a considerable quantity of alder, with
some birch, and on the Forbes part of the river, a little hagberry,
(Prunus Padus).  Upon the estate of Whitehaugh, some hun-
dre'd acres of full-grown paxk wood, chiefly larch and fir, have for
the last twenty years added considerably to the annual revenue
of the property, and the size of many of the trees, all of which
were planted by the grandfather of Colonel Leith, the present pro-
prietor, holds forth a strong encouragement to improvements of
this description ; and this encouragement has not been lost upon
the, latter.
   Zoology.-The wild animals to be found in this parish are, it
is believed, common to most other parts of Scotland, similarly


