
458                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ed data for estimating elevation by the temperature of copious
springs, gives 81 feet; and, when measured by the barometer, the
altitude above the mean sea-level was found to be 95 feet.
   Another spring on the eastern boundary of the parish, Dear the
farm-house of Smeaton, has just now been formed precisely in the
same manner. When boring at some distance from the channel
of the united Esks, but where the strata had also a small incli-
tion, the dip not exceeding 15\d, the water rose at the depth of
90 feet, and began to flow in a constant though much less copi-
ous stream. The temperature of this spring and its elevation
above the sea-level were both ascertained to be the same as those
of the other.
   Not only the water of these springs, but all the water which
here issues from great depths, is more or less of a chalybeate cha-
racter, and, from exposure to the air, leaves a deposit of the oxide
of iron. This is most strikingly seen in the Water which flows
from the levels of the coal mines, and in the whole course of the
small rivulet which forms part of the north boundary of the parish,
it deeply stains the channel with this ferruginous deposit. The
water of the well, however, from which the town of Dalkeith is
partly supplied, has no doubt gained in purity by the partial filling
up, though, by these' means, much diminished in the quantity of
discharge.
   The present form of the beds of the Esks seems chiefly owing
to the action of the stream themselves. Both the North and
South Elsk, the one taking its rise in the Lammermuir range and
the other in the Pentland hills, only a few miles distant, often de-
scend in a rapid and full current; and the action of these currents
on parts of the great detrital deposit which forms a portion of the
banks of both streams, is such, when combined with the action of
the rains and frosts of winter, as to produce great land-slips, carry-
ing full-grown trees in a rowing position towards the channel of
the stream. The road which approaches Dalkeith from Edin-
burgh, winding on an inclined plane along one of these deposits,
is so insecure from these combined actions, that it has been pro-
posed to have the line of road changed. The effect of the North
Esk, even on the rocks, at the Iron Mill, where it acts along the
direction of the slightly inclined strata, is very remarkable. The
current washing away the soft slate clay, containing imbedded no-
dules of reddle, occasionally causes great masses of the incumbent
sandstone to be precipitated as a ruin into the bed of the stream,
to be afterwards carried away by succeeding floods.


