
	818                         FIFESHIRE.

	is exclusively for females, and those especially who are employed
	in the mills.
	   The Dissenting minister, the Rev. James Hardie, has also been
	most industrious in this department.  He has long had a Sabbath	
	evening class, which has been well attended.
	   Library.-There is a library kept in the museum by the paro-
	chial teacher, and another subscription one in the town.  The
	minister obtained, a few years ago, a good selection of books from
	the Tract Society in London, which have been well read by the
	young people attending his class, and others who chose to enjoy
	the privilege.
	   Charitable Institutions.-The late Robert Philp, Esq. of Edens-
	head, left his property for the endowment of schools; one-eighth
	part of which was appropriated for the instruction and clothing of
	50 children in Kinghorn, and the residue of the fund to be given
	to the children in such proportions as the managers of the charity
	shall direct, " the better to enable the children on leaving the
	school to begin the world."  The children enjoying the charity
	attend the parochial school, and are taught all the branches which
	the other children receive in the course of instruction.
	   Henry Bursary.-The late Rev. James Henry, minister of this
	parish, left L.300 to found a bursary, to support a young man
	during four years of his philosophical studies at the United Col-	
	lege of St Salvador and St Leonard, in the University of St An-
	drews, the interest of which, at five per cent., yields to the bursar
	L.15 a-year.  The right of electing the bursar is vested in the
	kirk-session of Kinghorn, the presbytery of Kirkcaldy, and the
	town-council (now the managers) of this burgh.  These bodies
	are appointed by the trust-deed to send their respective delegates
	to meet together, by previous appointment of the minister of
	Kinghorn, in the session-house there, and then to make choice,
	by plurality of voices, of a young man to enjoy the bursary for the
	time being.
 	  Savings' Bank.-There is no saving bank in the parish, but
	there is one in Kirkcaldy, which is of great advantage to the dis-
	trict, and in it deposits to a considerable amount are lodged by
	the sober and working classes.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.- The average number of poor, wbo
	receive regular aliment from the parochial funds, for the last se-
	ven years, is 39, and the weekly sum granted to each varies from
	8d. to 2s. 6d.  There are occasional poor besides these, who re

