
		          WAMPHRAY.		          149

about L. 10 distributed among them and the poorer householders
in winter, arising from a charitable ball, or some amusement con-
nected with charity. There is in general, and with only a few ex-
ceptions, a disposition among the poor to refrain from seeking pa-
rochial relief, which they consider as degrading. Assessments
have been hitherto evaded, from a fear that they might eventually
increase the number of the poor. On this head, we must notice
the interference made with the interests of the native poor by great
swarms and beggars, not merely the aged and infirm, but the young
and robust, who flock from other quarters, frequently from Ireland,
and hnundate this district. It may safdly be asserted, that they
extort far more from the inhabitants in the course of the year,
than our own poor derive from all the sources formerly enume-
rated.
	Inns.--There is only one alehouse in the parish. It is kept
where the turnpike toll is levied; and from not being very much
frequented, appears to have no very bad effects upon the morals
of the people.
	Fuel.--Almost the only fuel used here is peat, got partly in this
parish, and partly in Johnstone, where there is an almost inter-
minable supply. Most of the peats in this parish are found in a
moss towards the south. As it lies with little descent, it is much
overrun with water, and is coming fast to a termination, recourse
must now be had entirely to other parishes, or coals must be
brought from a great distance.

   	         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	The present state of the parish presents a very striking contrast
in every respect to that which existed at the time of the first Sta-
tistical Account, which appears to have been written in 1793 or
1794; and also to the state of things when the last Account was writ-
ten in 1798. Prices, indeed, appear to have been as remunerating
to the farmer then as they are now. But all the lands have changed
their owners, except in three cases, where the proprietors succeeded
by inheritance. The General appearance, too, presents a very differ-
ent aspebt. The houses, which were then rather indifferent, are now
very neat and comfortable. The farms are now divided and subdivid-
ed, and well fenced. A new and far better system of husbandry is
now followed. The farmers have more capital, and carry on their
operations with more energy and spirit. A purer breed of Galloway
cows and cattle has been introduced. Sheep with ` finer fleece


