
                         KIRKNEWTON.                           435

the third or lowest is that which is traversed by the Glasgow road.
In the two uppermost of these divisions, the surface, in its stretch
from east to west, is marked by farther intermediate risings and de-
pressions. Nowhere, however, does the land rise to a height en-
titled to the name of mountain. The nearest approach to this is
the ridge called Corston Hill, lying on the north side of the road
between Little Vantage and Causeyend.
   Climate.-The climate is good and salubrious. There are no
particular or prevailing diseases incident to the locality; and in-
stances are quite common of a very advanced age.
   Hydrography.-The parish is plentifully supplied with running
water. The principal streams are those already noticed as form-
ing its boundaries, none of them of any magnitude, the largest
being the Almond and the Water of Leith. On each of these
there is a grain mill; and on the latter, till very lately, there was
also a mill for the manufacture of coarse paper. It would appear
from the ruinous remains still visible in different places, that the
number of grain mills had been considerably greater in former
times than it is at present. As this change cannot be accounted
for by any diminution of employment generally, the most natural
explanation is found in the increased facilities of communication,
giving ready access to the best mills, and leading of course to
the discontinuance of the inferior ones. In addition to the streams
washing the borders of the parish, there are rivulets intersecting
it in various directions, one of which served formerly to divide the
two parishes now united.
   The water obtained from springs and from pit-wells is of excel-
lent quality. The supply from these sources has been observed
to be less abundant of late, than formerly. This is referred to
the thorough drainage which forms so prominent a feature in the
present system of agricultural improvement, and the Inconvenience
may, in time, come to be no inconsiderable drawback on the great
advantages of which the process is productive.
   Geology.-In this parish, there are specimens of almost all the
rocks that are to be met with in the county. In the banks of the
streams which bound it, the strata are extensively exposed, and
consist of sandstone, scale, and lime, the last commonly in thin
beds. Sandstone abounds also in the interior, so that it can
scarcely be doubted that this is the class of rocks on which, ge-
nerally speaking, the district is based. To the east of the village of
East Calder, close upon the public road, there is an extensive field
of limestone, which has long yielded an abundant supply of lime


