
194                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

chal of Scotland, who, in her right became proprietor of St Fer-
gus.  The issue of this marriage continued a separate branch of
the Keiths for seven or eight generations.  In 1538, the families
were, again united by the marriage of William, the fourth Earl
Marischal, with the heiress of Sir William Keith of Inverugie.
From that period the parish continued the property of the Earls
Marischal till 1715, when, by the attainder of the then Earl, it es-
cheated to the Crown.  It was sold by the Crown to the York-
Building Company, and repurchased from their trustees by George
Earl Marischal, son of the attainted Earl, in 1761, at thirty years
purchase of the then rental, which was L.420, 13s. 8d. Sterling.
In 1764, it was sold by Earl Marischal to James Ferguson, Esq.
one of the Senators of the College of Justice, and in that family it
has since continued.
   Eminent Characters.-It seems proper that even such an humble
chronicle as this should contribute its aid to preserve to posterity
the memory of the great Field Marischal Keith, brother to George
last Earl Marischal, who was, born at Inverugie Castle, and, as;
appears,from the parochial register of baptisms, was baptised on the
16th June 1696, by the name of James Francis Edward.  He fell
at the battle of Hochkirchen, on the 14th October 1758, in the
sixty-third year of his age.

           Cui genus a proavis ingens clarumque paterne
           Nomen crat virtutis, et ipse acerrimus armis.

   Robert Arbuthnot of Scotsmill, the grandfather of the cele-
brated Dr Arbuthnot, who was physician to Queen Anne, and
the friend of Dean Swift, is buried in the churchyard, of this pa-
rish.  The tombstone which surmounts the grave, and on which
are quartered the arms of the ancient families of Arbuthnot and
Gordon, belongs to the representatives of the late Sir William
Arbuthnot of Edinburgh, who expressed great solicitude for its
preservation, and at whose request it was repaired some time be-
fore his death.
   Land-owners.-At the time when the former,Statistical Account
was drawn up and for long after,-the whole parish was the pro-
perty of one heritor; but the present proprietor having, sold a small
section of it which lies contiguous to the lands of Rattray, in the
parish of Crimond, there are now two heritors, George Ferguson,
Esq. M.P. for, Banffshire, and Adam Cumine, Esq. of Rattray
but neither of them reside in the parish.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry in the pa-


