
                          ERSKINE.                          513

issue, the next hair of entail, John Hall, second son of Robert
Hall of Fulbar and Margaret Maxwell, his Wife, the sister of the
entailer, succeeded under the title of Maxwell of Dargavel, and
eventually he became, by the death of his elder brother, the pro
prietor and male representative of the house of Fulbar. The pre-
sent proprietor married the eldest daughter of John Campbell,
Esq. of Possil, Dumbartonshire, by whom he has a numerous fa
mily,
   The present house of Dargavel was built in the year 1584, As
appears from a stone in the front wall bearing that date, with the
name and arms of the family, It is an excellent specimen of the
style of French architecture, which was introduced into Scotland
in the reign of Queen Mary, by which the old square keep was
supplanted; and having undergone little alteration, it affords a
good idea of the dwellings of the Scottish gentry towards the end
of the sixteenth century. The lower storey is strongly vaulted, and
the flanking towers, are loopholed for musketry, so as to command
a range both of the sides and gables,
   Lord Douglas is the descendant and representative of the house
of Douglas, so well known and highly famed in Scottish history,
His Lordship has no mansion-house, on his property in this parish.
Mr Rodger of Wester Rossland is the representative of a family
of that name, which obtained a charter or title to the property of
Wester Rossland, or Fergushill's Rossland, so far back as the
Year 1599, and which also, about a hundred years since, increased
it considerably by the purchase of the lands of Hay Hill, Long
Meadows, and Gladstone, formerly belonging to the Brisbanes of
Bishoptoun. On this property there was discovered accidentally
a few years ago, a shilling of the reign of Philip and Mary, coined
in 1553, but no other relics, have since been discovered which
could in any way account for its being there.
  Captain King of Millbank is the son of the late Thomas King,
Esq. of Millbank and Drums, at whose decease the property of
Drums being unentailed, was sold, leaving only the entailed es-
state of Millbank in  possession of the family. Captain King is not
a resident heritor, being at present with his regiment in England.
  The family of Sempill claims also a passing notice under this
head as having been at no very remote period possessed of con-
siderable property in this parish, viz. a large portion of the estate
of Northbarr, and the entire estate of Bishoptoun, the latter of
Which, Miss Dunlop, heiress of that property, and mother of Hugh,


