
	318	RENFREWSHIRE.

	with near Hartfield.	It is there found beautifully crystallized, bay-
        ing abroad, rectangular, four-sided prism, rather flatly feoilled in the
	extremities.

The first specimen, examined by Werner, was brought from the
Cape of Good Hope, by Colonel Prebn; hence the name of
Prebnite, by which it is distinguished. It was then not suppos-.
ed to be found in Great Britain, but some time afterwards it was
found near Dumbarton by Mr Grotche;* and since, abundance of
it has been picked up in the Hartfield moss. That the specimen
p icked up by Grotebe at Dumbarton was carried down, with others,
by the Cawpla stream into the Clyde, and by the Clyde, rolled down
to Dumbarton, is extremely probable, as prebnite is not found
in any other parish in the West of Scotland, known to us. It is
curious, indeed, that its formation should be in the middle of moss.
We have found large specimens of it so imbedded,-and not very
manyyears ago, sent a most splendid specimen of it, picked upby us,
to the late amiable and talented Professor of Natural History in
the University of Glasgow, Mr Lockhart Muirbead. The cele-
brated Brochant, it is said, could not rest satisfied till he visited
the place of itr formation, Hartfield Moss, and took away with him
some of the finest specimens he could find. t
,I?zalcime, or I-lexahedral zeolite, is the most common of all those
minerals found at the same spot. That it has also been carried
down by the waters from Hartfield, though picked up at Dumbar-
ton, is probable. In general, this crystal presents only one modifi-
e,atiod, viz. the tWez)ty-four-sided crystal with trapezoidal faces of
greater or less regularity. The primitive form of its crystal is a
cube; sometimes it is found crystallized in cubes, in which each
solid angle is acumitiated by three faces. It is often found some-
what transparent. One beautiful crystal of this primitive form was
found by Lord Greenock in a quarry near Caldwell. This crys-
tal, though at times seen transparent, is generally opaque. A few
specimens occur of a red flesh-colour, but these are very rare.
Ch`basite, or Rhombohedral zeolite, is found in the same situa-
tion, but it also is comparatively of rare occurrence. The primi-
tive rhombohedral crystal is by much the most common. The
most frequent modification consists in the truncation-of one, two,
or three angles; the truncation itself being often very deep. It is
usually found white, and somewhat transparent, with a streak of
green running through it, which renders it very pretty.
Red &ilbite, or Hetilandite, is of frequent occurrence.
Vide Ann. de Chim. i. 213.
f Brochant, i 295.


