
     Of Northmaven.

1790; so that at present it is pretty commodious.  The va-
lue of the stipend cannot be ascertained, being paid in kind,
which renders it very variable.  The glebe is situated in 4
different places, each 3 miles distant from the manse, and 3
merks land, which are contiguous thereto.-A legal school
was established here in 1772, with a salary of 197 merks 8s.
9 pennies Scots, raised by 2 s. 3 d.  Scots on the merk land.  The
usual number of boys at this school was from 20 to 25.  At
present they are only 14.  There has not yet been a charity
school in this parish.  It is not to be doubted, if a proper re-
presentation was laid before the Society for Propagating
Christian Knowledge, that they would readily grant one for
such an extensive parish as this.   
   These are commonly from 14 to 18 poor on the parochial
roll. each of whom are stationed on a certain number of fami-
lies in a corner, who maintain them as many days and nights
as they have merks of land.  They will make 3 or 4 rota-
tions yearly in that corner.  The weekly collections may a-
mount yearly to 5 L. Sterling; and the collections on sacr-
mental occasions to 10 L. Sterling.  From these collections,
the above stated poor, receive from 5 s. to 10 s.  for clothes,
and from 8 s. to 12 s. for expense of burial*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*These poor are such as are arrived at extreme old age.  Besides the above,
there are commonly on the list one or two infants, who have left their parents,
recommended by the kirk-session to some discreet family, who receive 20 or 30 s.
yearly until they arrive at 10 years of age.  After which time, they are treat-
ed and considered as a child of the family.  There is a sum of 25 L.  Sterling
mortified by the Rev. Mr. James Buchan, formerly minister of this parish, the
interest whereof is given to such, as, though now reduced to low circumstances,
were formerly in a more affluent state than the ordinary poor.  Besides, there
are several families reduced by misfortunes, who receive from 5 s. to 20 s.  Ster-
ling, though not on the poor's roll.  In the year 1792, 24 familes received 10 s.
each from the poor's funds.  When any extraordinary misfortunes happen a family


