
                               ARDROSSAN.                        191

philanthopist, annihilates his utopian visions of earthy perfection,
and proves that even the blessings os cicilizations are always alloy-
ed, and sometimes outweighed, by evils from which it seems to be
inseparable.

   July 1837.

 ------------------------------------------------------------------

                         PARISH OF ARDROSSAN.

            PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                    THE REV. JOHN BRYCE, MINISTER.

                             ----------

                    I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

        Name.--ARDROSSAN is the only name by which this parish has
been ever known. It may be derived from the Celtic words, Ard,
high, ros, a promontory, and an, a diminutive, and may signify a
highish promontory, which is descriptive enough of the small hill,
on which the remains of the Castle oof the ancient Barons of Ar-
drossan still stand.
        Situation, Boundaries,&c.--This parish is situated in the district
of Cuninghame, the north division of the country of Ayr. It is
bounded on the south-west by the Frith of Clyde; on the north-
east by Dalry; on the south-east by Stevenston and Kilwinning; and
on the north-west by West Kilbride. It extends in lenght about 6
miles; its greatest breadth is about 4 miles; and it contains, ac-
cording to Robertson, about 11 square miles.
        Topographical Appearances.--The surface is a mixture of hilly
and flat country, and almost all of it fit for the plough. From the
south-east corner of the parish, for more than a mile, the ground
along the shore may be described as an inclined plane of consi-
derable breadth, gently rising towards hills of different heights,
which nearly stretch across the whole parish. These hills increase
in heights towards the north-west, and also approach nearer the
shore, where they terminate in steep banks, which bear evident
marks of having at one time been washed by the sea. the highest
hill in the range is Knockgeorgan, which is upwards of 700 feet
above the level of the sea; from which, when the atmosphere
is favorable, the hills in ten countries may be easily seen. The
others are of various elevations, to about 400 feet. Clamps of


