
		       KINGLASSIE.                               199

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.-The parish contains about 34 farms, the largest
of which amounts in whole to 377 Scots acres. No other ex-
ceeds 234. Three of these are below 60 acres. Smaller portions
of land are also occupied upon nineteen years leases. Besides, two
farms, whose steadings are beyond its limits, stretch themselves into
the parish. Such has been the encouragement given by considerate
and liberal landlords to skilful, and industrious tenants, that the
quantity of ground now brought under the plough can scarcely be
estimated below 5200 Scots acres. 356 acres are covered with
thriving plantations. The remaining 244 are unarable, being either
overlaid with rock, steep on the surface, or laid out in roads. Not.
withstanding the difficulties which discourage improvements, a con-
siderable deal of soil might, with a profitable application of capital,
be added to the cultivated land, or to that which is already covered
with wood. The prevailing trees are larch, spruce, fir, and ash.
One considerable plantation abounds with excellent beech and oak.
  Rent.- As variety characterises the soil, a diversity of rents like-
wise obtains. The extreme rates at which land is let per Scots acre
are, L. 1 and L. 3, 15s. It is a small proportion, however, which is
leased at either of these sums; L.1, 9s. 9d. per Scots acre may be
considered as the average rent of arable ground. Pasturage for a
cow generally costs L. 3, 10s., and that for a sheep L. 1, 5s. Grass
parks usually bring about L. 2 per acre.
   Draining.-During the last twenty years nearly 300 acres have
been reclaimed. The cultivators of the soil have of late been par-
ticularly careful in drawing off that superabundance of moisture
which is so inimical to the  production of healthy and luxuriant
crops. In practical attention to this department of rural economy,
the late Mr Aytoun of Inchdairnie was very active, judicious, and
successful. The depth of the close drains made under his direc-
tion was determined by the nature of the soil which they were in-
tended to improve. Some of those on strong clay are eight feet
below the surface.
   Live-stock, &c.-Almost the whole cattle are of the pure Fife
breed, of which the black horned are the most prevalent. The
number of calves annually reared may be estimated at 300.
  In regard to farm-steadings, material improvements have taken
place. Towards their tenantry, landlords have in this and other
respects manifested a judicious and benevolent regard.
   With very rare exceptions the different farms, have thrashing-


