
686                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   Normal School.-A Seminary for the instruction of young men.
devoting themselves to the profession of teaching in the parochial
and other schools, has lately been established on a great scale by
the General Assembly's Education Committee.  It occupies a
large and commodious structure, which has lately been erected on
the Castlehill, at an expense of upwards of L.8000, one-half of
the amount being granted by the Education Committee of the
Privy-Council, the other half raised by subscription.  The Privy-
Council Committee also grants L.500 per annum towards the sup-
port of the Seminary, on condition of the Assembly Committee
contributing an equal amount for the same purpose.  Domestic
accommodation is provided in this building for students.  The
seminary is conducted by a rector and two masters.
   school of Arts-In 1821 the first idea of a school for the in-
struction of mechanics and tradesmen in the elements of scientific
knowledge occurred to a few individuals in Edinburgh, and in the
same year the School of Arts was established.  It is supported by
feneral subscriptions and donations, and by the fees of the pupils.
Lectures are given in chemistry and the application of this science
to the arts; in mechanical philosophy, mathematics, engineering,
modelling, &c.  A library is connected with the institution, which
is open to the members on paying a small yearly sum, which en-
titles the member also to attendance on the lectures.  Certificates
or diplomas are given to those students who have particularly
distinguished themselves in the different classes, after undergoing
a regular examination in the several courses of study.  The num-
ber of students attending all the classes during the session 1844-
45 was 583.
   Royal College of Physicians.-This body was incorporated by a
charter of Charles II. in 1681.  By this charter the members
have an exclusive privilege of practicing medicine in Edinburgh;
and they are also enjoined to visit the apothecaries' shops and pre-
vent the male of insufficient and corrupted drugs.  The college
consists of a president and council, and resident and non resident
follows.  They have a hall and library, and hold occasional meet-
ings.  In 1843 the Physicians' Hall in George Street was pur-
chased by the Commercial Bank; and a new Physicians' Hall has
been built in Queen Street.
   Royal College of Surgeons.-In 1505 the surgeons and barbers
were formed into a corporation by the town-council of Edinburgh.
The charter was afterwards ratified by James V.; and Queen
Mary, in consideration of the great attendance of surgeons on their


