
     Statistical Account

Four of the heritors are elders, and do their duty as such.
They take a kind interest in the poor, meet with the session,
regularly twice a year, examine accounts, listen to new ap-
plications, make up the roll for the ensuing half year, six
the allowance of each pensioner as seems needful, and assets
themselves and tenants to make up the deficiency of the
supplies above specified.  A discretionary power too is gi-
ven to the minister, and any one elder, to attend to cir-
cumstances which cannot be foreseen or provided for at the
stated meetings*.

   Population.-The return to Dr Webster in 1755, was
910 souls.  From an accurate list taken by the late incum-
bent about 4 years ago, it appeared that the number of
the people had diminished considerably from the time that
Dr Webster had calculated the population of Scotland.
This decrease must here, as in many other situations, have

<FOOTNOTE>

*Such provision, it has sometimes been alleged, has a tendency (by
damping industry, and rendering the labouring part of the community less
scrupulous in their applications for aid) to lessen the mortification of being
assisted the number of poor; but similar objections may be brought
against charitable institutions of almost every denomination.  In this
country there can be no great cause of alarm while the management is in
such hands; and therefore, to compare our trifling assessments with the poor-
rates in England in their operation and effects, is ridiculous and absurd.
True, indeed, it would be most desirable that no assessment were neces-
sary: and did heritors in general imitate those of the parish of Borthwick,
the happiest consequences might be expected: But in many parishes not
a single proprietor resides; and where he does, gives not himself the
smallest trouble about the poor.  The tenants naturally imitate their supe-
riors, in relaxing in their attendance on public worship, and the thrifling
firms collected at church may be said to be half extorted from the very
poorest of the community.  On this account, therefore, as in many other
instances, we must take mankind, not as what they ought to be, but as
they really are, and so treat them accordingly.


