
     of Duffus.

"they strongly fortified, and of a peninsula made an isle, by cut-
"ting through a narrow neck of land; and then they called it
"by a DaniSh name, Burgh." All our historians are mistaken
in placing this fort at Nairn, where there never was any such
building.  But, in this parish, the peninsula above mentioned
is situated; and upon it, there are large remains of a regular
fortification.  The cut made to insulate the promontory is yet
visible, but now dry and nearly filled up.  The place still re-
tains its Danish name, being generally called by the common
people Burgh, and sometimes called and written Burgh-head.
2.  After Malcolm had overcome the Danes, under Camus, in
the battle of Panbride, in Angus, Camus, with his remaining
troops, attempted to retreat to Moray, by the mountains, but
was overtaken, routed, and slain.  There is an obelisk stand-
ing at the west end of the parish, conjectured to be the obelisk
which, historians say, was erected for this victory; and near
this monument, there is a village called Kaim, which is sup-
posed to be the village mentioned by Buchanan, as retaining
the memorable name of Camus. 3.  Upon the north-west
border of the lake of Spiney, there are standing upon an ar-
tificial mound, surrounded with a fossee and draw-bridge, the
walls of a strong castle, called Old Duffus.  It is known to be
of great antiquity; but at what precise time it was built, or
who were the original proprietors, cannot be traced with any
degree of certainty.  It is surrounded with orchards and fo-
rest trees, and, standing in the heart of a charming plain, pre-
sents, at every point of view, one of the most picturesque and
beautiful objects which the country exhibits. 4.  At the vil-
lage of Duffus there is a square, (in the centre of which the
church is placed), surrounded by four streets regularly paved,
the workmanship of Oliver Cromwell's soldiers++.

     3 D 2

<FOOTNOTE>

++Had it not been for swelling the Statistical work too much, to have allowed
a corner in it, for a selection of such epitaphs as are curious, would have fur-


