
     Statistical Account

the whole parish, who do not either speak or understand
Gaelic.  Most of the names of places are evidently derived
from that language, and are expressive of their local situa-
tion.  The following may serve as a specimen; Lethenrys
signifies the broader country.  Kinningbragon, the end of the
rock.  Cultoquhey is the English name for its original Gaelic
name, Comhal-cults, i. e.  Comhal's battle.

   Bridges, Roads, Ale-houses, Mills, Markets.-Over the
river Almon at Buchandy, there is a bridge of one arch, laid
over another, and bearing date 1639.  It was built by the
Earl of Tullibardin when he had his summer residence in
this place, the remains of which residence are still to be
seen.  His arms are cut on it, and the initials of his own and
his lady's names.  The proper name of the bridge, however,
is M'Bean's bridge, because of a chapel originally near it, called
St M'Bean's chapel^^.  On all the public roads there are good
bridges.  Those upon the county road built by the county,
and the others by subscription.  The roads here were kept up
formerly by the statute labour, which is generally very ill
performed, and therefore it is now commuted.  They pay
from 8 s. to 10 s. each plough, and the pendiclers and cot-
tagers pay 1 s. 6 d. a-year.  There are 7 licensed ale-houses
in the parish.  There are 5 oat meal mills, and two flax mills.

<FOOTNOTE>

llNear the N. E. corner of the parish, there had been another chapel,
but no vestige of it is now to be seen.  There is still a burying ground in
that place, and its situation is most romantic.  Tradition says, that the even-
ing before the battle of Lunkarty, 60 men took the sacrament here, who all
went to the field, and only 6 of them returned, In digging for marl a little
to the west of Monzie, a part of a deer's horn was found, 7 inches in circum-
ference; and the barrel of a gun, 5 feet long, 4 inches in circumference at
the one, and 7 inches in circumference at the other end, 2 stones in weight.
It had evidently been used before the invention of the locks, as the match
hole is entire and plain.


