
598                      FIFESHIRE.

grounds by the river, and especially on the three middle farms,
the intermixture of clay is considerable, forming a fertile, though
hard soil, from eight to twelve inches in depth. In some places,
the loam disappears, and gravel and clay beds present themselves,
chiefly close by the margin of the river. Towards the west, the
soil is sharp and more friable. The subsoil is chiefly clay and
till, and in some places sand. On the higher grounds, the loam
is purer, varies from one to three feet in depth, and lies on rock,
clay, and till, and here and there on patches of moor-band. On
the south of Glenduckie Hill, it is good black, easy loam, reco-
vered from wet and marshy ground; and the soil removed in mak-
ing drains and water-courses has been conveyed higher up the
hill, and forms about twenty acres of arable land, where the rock
was chiefly visible before.
   The more level portions of the parish, whether on the lower or
more elevated ground, were formerly very wet; and the hollows
were marshes at no very distant date. Innumerable drains and
large ditches have now, however, rendered the soil comparatively
dry.
   Boulders were once thickly spread, but are now removed. Some
idea of their number, and of the labour of clearing the ground,
may be formed from the fact, that three men and two pair of
horses were employed on one " balk," on Flisk-mill farm, for a
fortnight, and that 500 cart-loads of stones were drawn from two
and a-half acres. Many of the boulders contain from four to six,
eight, or twelve feet of solid matter; and others, which required
to be broken by gunpowder before they could be removed, must
have been much larger. One lying by the river near Flisk-point,
and said, by marvel-loving tradition to have been hurled by a giant
from the opposite side of the Tay, and aimed at the church,
contains about 150 feet; and another, higher up the river, and
now partly broken and partly sunk into the soil, must have been,
at least, of equal dimensions. They are generally of the primitive
rocks, granite, gneiss, mica-slate, and, quartz, though some are
conglomerate, and others compact felspar.
   Zoology. -The common salmon and the spirling, or Salmo eper-
lanus, frequent the river.  The seal is an unwelcome visitor. The
porpoise may be seen playing its gambols, when the tide is up; and
the grampus, also, sometimes makes its appearance. Flocks of
wild geese frequent the river and the hill-sides, for some months
after harvest.
porpoise ma be seen playing its gambols, when the tide is up; and
the grampus"also, sometimes makes its appearance. Flksof
wild sees& frequent the river and the hill-sides, for some mant S
after harvest.



