
			CARMYLIE.                               351

south-west to north-east, in a straight line, is about 4 miles, and its
medium breadth about 3 miles. It contains, therefore, about 12
square miles.
	It is situated in the county of Forfar, in the synod of Angus
and Mearns, and Presbytery of Aberbrothock, is of an oblong
form, and is bounded bx parts of eight parishes, viz. of Panbride,
Monikie, detached parts of Guthrie and Dunnichen, and by parts
of Kirkden, Inverkeilor, St Vigeans, and Arbirlot.
        Topographical Appearances.-It forms part of the south-eastern
branch of the Seidlaw hills, and consists chiefly of a series of high
grounds scarcely approaching to hills, with their intervening val-
lies, running somewhat in a crescent like-form, from south-west to
east nearly; and being all of a rounded form and of gentle accli-
vity, they are, with one exception, cultivated, to their summits, and
the greater part of the intervening vallies has more recently been
brought under the plough. They are of nearly equal elevation,
and are at least 200 feet above the lowest part or plane of the
parish, which may be considered as a kind of table-land, there
being a gradual declivity from it for several miles in all directions,
excepting towards the south-west. Their greatest elevation above
the level of the sea, has not been very accurately ascertained, but
it may be stated at not less than 580 feet,-commanding a most
extensive prospect, on the one hand, of the German Ocean, and
of the coast of Fife from St Andrews to Fifeness, and in a clear day
of the range of the Lammermuir hills; and on the other, of the
Grampian mountains, from Schehallion nearly to thier eastern
terlination.
        Meteorology.-As the parish is situated towards the eastern de-
clivity of the Seidlaw hills, and without shelter from the north
and east, our climate is considerably colder than that of the sur-
rounding parishes. When the highest point of these hills, which
is visible from the parishes, is seen caped with  clouds or mist, it is
reckoned a sure presage of rain. Their long range attracts the
floating clouds, and condenses them on the soil, which is thereby
chilled,-a stiff retentive subsoil preventing the absorption of the
waters, and  the surrounding air is kept loaded with moisture.
	As Mr Headrick remarks, in reference to the climate of the ma-
ritime district, from our vicinity to the sea and our high situation,

<FOOTNOTE>
man army during thier encampment A. D. 139. near Carbuddo, probably, as he thinks,
another Caledonian fort, a few miles distant, where the vestiges of thier camp are
mill to be seen.



