
222            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

practice to grant bills for payment, at four six months' date.
These persons were not always men of capital; and the business
which they followed was, from its nature, a very precarious one;
so that, in proportion to their numbers, a greater proportion of such
provincial corn-dealers are known to have become bankrupt than
any other class of men. A similar remark is applicable to the
drovers, or those persons who purchased black-cattle in Wigton-
shire, with the view of driving them for sale to some English mar-
ket. These persons also followed a trade liable to as much ca-
price and fluctuation as that of the corn-dealers; and, like them,
they seldom, if ever, paid in cash, but by a bill drawn at four or
six months. Hence the great risk and eventual losses to which
the farmers in Wigtonshire were continually exposed, and the ge-
neral bankruptcy and distress that ensued. When the agricultu-
ral interests were suffering so much for some years previously to
1823, it is a fact well known to the present writer, that all the
more extensive corn-dealers and drovers became bankrupt; so that
the county of which we are speaking, as well as the Stewartry of
Kirkcudbright, experienced an extent of loss and misery equally
general and lamentable. But the introduction of steam navigation
has put an end to this wrdtched system, and now affords to the
farmer a ready and a safe market for effecting, the largest sales,
either of cattle or of corn. In addition to the steam-boats which
ply regularly between Wigtonshire and England, there are two
steamers which weekly sail between Stranraer and Glasgow; so
that the inhabitants of this remote county have now the ready and
frequent comland of the best markets, both in England and Scot-
land, either for buying or selling. But while steam navigation
has been productive of such important advantages as we have de-
scribed, it has been attended with other results, which, though fa-
vourable in a national point of view, are unfavourable to this pro-
vince. The traffic and travelling that had previously prevailed
between Ireland and England, via Portpatrick and Donaghadee,
have been, in a great measure, ttrned into a new channel, and
this bounty has in consequence proportionally suffered. Gal-
loway formed at one time the great high road between the north-
ern and north-western counties of Ireland and England. There
is now very little travelling by this route. The steamers plying
from almost every Irish port to Liverpool or Holyhead, engross
almost the whole of the travelling, of which Galloway formerly
enjoyed the advantage. Hence, posting in this county has nearly


