
                       PARISH OF HALKIRK.

        PRESBYTERY OF CAITHNESS, SYNOD OF SUTHERLAND AND

                          CAITHNESS.

                 THE REV. JOHN MUNRO, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE, ancient name of this parish was St Fergus and
St Thomas. It had this name because the parish of St Fergus
was united to that of St Thomas's soon after or about the time of
the Reformation. It is very probable that the tract of country
now known by the name of the parish of Halkirk, or the united
parishes of Halkirk and Skinnet, contained at some remote period
more than the two parishes above alluded to: the number of bury-
ing grounds, and the ruins of several places of worship, afford a
presumptive proof of this. Sole of these, however, are said to
have been chapelries in the times of Popery. The etymology of
the modern name, Halkirk,, is involved in the greatest obscurity,
and, as there is no tradition regarding it, the conjectures of ima-
gination are the only sources from which any thing probable can
be drawn.
   Extent, &c.-The very irregular figure of the parish makes it
difficult to ascertain its real extent. The extreme length is 24
miles, the breadth varies from 12 to 3 miles. From these consi-
derations, we may suppose that the parish contains about 90 or
92 square miles. The parish is hounded on the north by the pa-
rish of Thurso; on the north-east and east by the parishes of Bow-
er and Watten; on the south and south-west by the parishes of
Latheron, Kildonan, and Reay; on the west by Dorrory, a detach-
ed part of the parish of Thurso; and on the north-west by the pa-
rish of Reay.
   Topographical Appearances.-There is neither hill nor moun-
tain remarkable for height in the parish, except the Spittal hill
partly in this parish and partly in the parish of Watten, and about
three miles south-east from the church of Halkirk. The elevation of
his hill above the level of the sea is not known; its height, how-


