
                           GARTLY.                               97

the Barony, it is light and sandy, and commonly rests upon a gravel-
ly bottom or kind of hard till, which is very difficult to pierce.

                     II-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Many of the natives of this parish have risen to respectable rank
in the military and medical departments, and many of them have
done honour to the church established in our land.  The late Dr
Moodie of Edinburgh was born at Kirkstyle, during the time that
a manse was building for his worthy father, then parish minister,
whose memory is still held in veneration by some of the aged in-
habitants-who speak of him as an able and faithful minister of
the New Testament.
   Parochial Registers.-Parochial registers of births and mar-
riages have been preserved from about the commencement of the
last century, and kept with tolerable regularity up to the present time.
   Antiquities.-The principal antiquity in the parish is an old ruin
called Castle of Gartly. In Chalmers's Life of Mary Queen of Scots,
it is stated, that this beautiful but unfortunate princess, on her re-
turn from an excursion to Inverness and Ross-shire, " repassed
through the country of the Gordons, which had once been held
out as so frightful.  She remained a night at Gartly, where there
is still a ruined castle, and the parish whereof belongs even now
to the Duke of Gordon."-The sites of four Roman Catholic cha-
pels are still pointed out in the Braes, namely, at Heathery hillock,
Brawlinknows, Tillythrowie, and Kirkney ; and the vestiges of some
of them and of the burial-grounds thereto attached are still visible.
There were, of late years, a number of tumuli on a piece of ground
called "the buried men's legs" on the farm of Mill-hill, near the
church, where a skirmish was fought after the battle of Harlaw, in
the flight of a party of Highlanders in 1411. Several of the cairns
were cleared away, about thirty-five years ago; and in one of them
were found the remains of two dirks, the handles of which were
pretty entire, but the blades much decayed. In another, were found
two large brass buckles about four inches broad, probably used in
buckling their claymores.  There was also lately found, in a cairn on
the farm of Faich-hill, an urn containing bones; and a large one pret-
ty entire on the farm of Riskhouse.  The present farmer of Cock-
ston, within these last few years, found on his farm an earthen pot
containing round pieces of stamped leather, which was supposed
to have been used in ancient times as coin,-but in such a state of
decay, that they mouldered away at the touch.  A stone coffin was
lately found by Captain Gordon of the Royal Artillery on his farm
   BANFF.                         G


