
144                       FORFARSHIRE.

material. I once picked up a few fragments of heavy spar, some
of which were tinged with a green colour from copper, on the
southern declivity of the highest pinnacle of Dunnichen Hill,
which must have come from a vein of that material which is con-
cealed by the soil. But the greatest metallic repositories in
the world have been discovered by acciddnt, or exposed to view
by streams of water. For this purpose, in Cornwall and other
places, they conduct streams of water artificially across the decli-
vity of the mountains.
	The sandstone in the castle quarry of Dunnichen dips to the
north about five feet in twenty-four, making an angle with the ho-
rizon of 12&deg;. This quarry furnishes excellent mill-stones for
grinding corn. It also furnishes stones of large dimensions, which
can be easily dressed and polished immediately after they are
raised, but if allowed to remain some time, no tool can penetrate
them. In some of its beds there are rounded pebbles of jasper,
quartz and agate, interspersed. The sandstone of Tulloes dips
to the south-east four feet eight inches in twenty-four, mak-
ing an angle with the horizon of 11&deg;. Our sandstone, or free-
stone, is generally of a grayish-white colour. Some of it inclines
to blue.
	Where the trap or whinstone rocks jut above the surface, they
appear to be a confused mass, without any stratification or regular
arrangement of parts. But where they have been dug into, they are
found to be as regularly stratified as the sandstone on which they
rest, and by which they are covered towards the dip. On the
southern face of the hill of Dunnichen, there are a few jutting rocks
of trap, some of which is fatiscent, as it decomposes in concdntric
scales. Other parts have numerous particles of steatites, of a dirty
yellowish-white colour, interspersed, and, from the resemblance to
that animal, have obtained the name of toad-stone. On the farm
of Pinkerton, there is a confused very porous stratum of trap cover-
ing a freestone quarry. On the farm of Broadlea, there is another
jutting rock of that species of trap which is called greenstone. This
rock has of late been much quarried for stones to mend the roads, and
is found to be composed of several very regular strata, each of
which is made up of blocks of various dimensions, of which some
affect the rude columnar form. These strata dip to the north-
east a the rate of nine feet in twenty-four, and make an angle
with the horizon of 21&deg;. All the visible rocks of the hill of Dum-
                               4


