
262                            LANARKSHIRE.

The jackdaw, although he in general prefers old ruins for his breed-
ing place, builds here abundantly in the holes of the old oaks in
Hamilton wood. In the month of May they spread themselves
over dry old pastures, where they pick up vast quantities of insects,
caterpillars, and beetles. At this season they forsake their old com-
panions the rooks; but return to them again in autumn. A nest of
the Cypselus apus, or swift, was got this summer with three young. *
	The following species are often shot: Lanius excubitor, cinereous
shrike. It appears chiefly in autumns, and sometimes attacks the
call-birds of the bird-catcher in their cages. Bombycilla garrula,
wax-wing, or Bohemian chatterer. These are irregular visitants.
Three individuals were shot in 1830 with heps in their stomachs.
A vast flock of them appeared in the haughs of Hamilton in the
winter of 1782. They are regarded as birds of evil omen. Loxia
curvirostra, or cross-bill, Emberiza nivalis, or snow-bunting, Frin-
gilla montifringilla, inountain-finch, or cock of the north, and
many other winter birds are observed. No species of Picus or
woodpecker has ever been observed in this part of Scotland. In
winter many species of sea-fowl, chiefly first year's birds, are shot
on the Clyde. The erne is often observed. Yunx torquilla was
lately shot.
	Of the reptile kind, the Anguis fragilis, or blind-worm, is very
common at Chatelherault. It is so brittle that it readily breaks
if let fall, or when suddenly laid hold on. Having no poison fangs
its bite is not venomous. It hides in holes in the winter, and is
sometimes seen abroad in the spring, by the beginning of March.
Some years ago a vast number of young vipers, with some old ones
of great magnitude, were turned up when digging a plot of ground
near Woodyet. These, in the true viper spirit, struck their long
barbed tongues against the spades of the workmen with great vio-
lence, and Seemed very angry at being thus invaded in their an-
cient domains. This species is very venomous. Vast quantities of
frogs are sometimesfound congregated in moist marshyplaces, many
feet below the surface. About a hogsbead-full were dug up sorne

<FOOTNOTE>About two years ago, many of the inhabitants of Hamilton were attracted to
Mr Fisher's at Claud's-burn, in  the neighbourhood of the town, to see a robin red-
breast feeding a young cuckoo, which it had hatched. The little bird had been a pet
during the winter, but leaving its master, and searching out for a mate in the spring,
met with this misfortune. The toil of feeding so large a bird as the cuckoo, which
by this time was flying about the orchard, soon	compelled robin to apply once more
to his former, benefactor for assistance; and it was curious to, see the fond dupe come
and peck worms, and other viands, out of Mr Fisher's hand, and carry them off di-
rectly to his great insstiable paeudo nestling.


