
			GLENISLA.	        	427

	On the lower grounds in the parish there are no plants pecu-
liarly worthy of notice, except Rumex aquaticus, which occurs in
some places pretty abundanly.

		II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, taking them in order,
according to the value of their lands, the Earl of Airlie; James
Rattray, Esq, of Kirkhillocks; John Smyth, Esq. of Balharry;
and Sir James Ramsay, Bart. of Bamff.

	Parochial Registers.--The oldest volume of the parish registers
commences in the beginning of the year 1704, and ends in 1723.
The next volume commences 1741, and ends 1806. The last
commences in November 1806, and contains the records from
that period until the present year. These registers are pretty
well kept, but none of them appear to be complete.

	Antiquities.--The Castle of Fortar, as an object of antiquity,
and as identified in history with the "troubles of Scotland," is de-
serving of notice. It is situated at the head of the principal part
of the glen, which it has evidently been constructed with the view
of commanding, along with the adjoining passes leading to Glen-
shee `nd Braemar. Apart of the walls is yet almost entire, from
which, with others in a ruinous condition, it appears to have been
a place of considerable size and strength. This castle was a
mountain-keep of the Ogilvies of Airlie, and was frequently oc-
cupied by them until the year 1640, when it was plundered and
destroyed by the Earl, afterwards Marquis of Argyle. In the In-
dictnent of the Marquis in 1661, special allusion is made to that
event.* And the following quaint narrative of it is given by Spald-
ing in his "History of the Troubles, &c. of Scotland."+ "Now the
Committee of Estates finding no contentment in this expedition,"
--an expedition directed by the Earls of Montrose and Kinghorn
agains the house of Airlie,--"and hearing how their friends of
the name of Forbes and others in the country were daily injured
and opprest by Highland lymmars broken oat of Lechaber, clan
Gregor out of Brae of Atholl, Brae of Mar, and divers other
places, therefore they give, order to the Earl of Argyle to raise
men out of his own country, and first go to Airly and Furtour,
two of the Earl of Airly's principal houses, and to take in and to take in and de-
stroy the same, and next to go upon the lymmars and punish them.
Likeas conform to his order, he raises an army of about 5,0000 men,

<FOOTNOTE>Wodrow's Hist. Book 1st, cap. ii.     Vol. h. anno 1640.


