
              KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                      311

venty to eighty Scots acres, and its annual value, as land lets in
Mull, may be about L.15.  The stipend is L.180, 10s. 317d Ster-
ling.  All the parishioners are of the Established Church, with the
exceptinn of forty, who are Baptists and Indepedents.  About two-
thirds of the gross  population are in the habit of attending the
churches, although difficulty of access prevents many of all ages
from attending regularly.  There are 374 communicants connect-
ed with the church of Kilfinichen, and 514 with that at Bonessan.
The Duke of Argyle is patron of the parish.
  Education.-About fifty years ago, there were only two schools
in the whole parish, including a charity school at Iona.  Now
there are two parochial schools, one with a salary of L.30, and the
other with a salary of L.21, 6s. 6d.  There are besides an As-
sembly school, two charity schools, two Gaelic schools, and two
female schools.  The schools are well attended, for the people
are in general much alive to the benefit of education.  All the
male teachers keep Sabbath schools.
  Poor.-The ordinary collections for the poor at both churches,
when put together, may average L.11 annually; this and occasional
fines for immoralities imposed by the kirk-session are the only
funds available to the poor.  They otherwise depend entirely upon
the humanity of the people.
  Fairs.-There are two fairs held at Bonessan in the year; one
in the month of May, on the Friday before the May Mull market;
and the other in the month of October, on the Friday before the
Mull market in that month.  At both fairs, black-cattle are brought
for sale.
  Fuel.-The only fuel in common use is peat, and at times
heather.  The gentlemen and better class of farmers burn coal
which, in general, comes from the Clyde, and the price varies from
14s. to 17s. per ton.
              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  With the exception of the loss which the parish annually sus-
tains by the discontinuance of the manufacture of kelp, the parish
does not seem to have undergone much change since the year
1792, when the former Statistical Account was written.  An im-
provement since then in black-cattle stock and the introduction
of Cheviot sheep, and of husbandry, by draining and rais-
ing of green crops, has no doubt taken place.  The facilities of
egress to the low country by steam-boats have been a great advan-


