
118			   LANARKSHIRE.

the better to enforce their arbitrary measures, summoned to their
aid some of the chieftains and  clans, afterwards designated the
Highland Host. These rapacious mountaineers, unaccustomed to
discrimination, plundered the inhabitants of every thing they could
lay their hands on. Under such an order of things, emigration to
Holland or Geneva was the only safe alternative. On 2d Febru-
ary following, the host left Glasgow for Ayrshire, and on their re-
turn in small detachments, loaded with plunder, they were attack-
ed by the students and other young men of the town, who recol-
lecting their former practices, relieved them of their burthens, and
showed them the way to the Highlands through the West Port.
	On 17th August 1669, the Presbytery of Glasgow directed that
the day of preparation before the communion should be a day of
fasting and humiliation. During the troubles in the latter end of
the reign of Charles I. and the greater part of the reign of Charles
II. the communion was but seldom administered in Glasgow, and
not at all in the year 1646-47-51-52-53-58 and 59. From 1660 to
1676, the communion was occasionally given once in the year; and
from 1693 till the Union in 1707, it was regularly given once a-
year; and it has almost uniformly been given twice a-year since
that period.
	In 1677, a great fire took place in Glasgow, when 130 houses
and shops were destroyed. In 1684, a number of Covenanters
were hanged in Glasgow, and their heads stuck on pikes on the
east side of the jail. Their bodies were buried at the north side
of the Cathedral Church, near where a stone with an inscription is
placed, and still remains in the wall.
	In 1689, on the abdication of James II., the city of Glasgow
raised a regiment of 500 rank and file, and sent them to Edin-
burgh, under the command of the Earl of Argyle, to guard the
Covenanters. This regiment then got the name of the Scotch
Cameronians, and subsequently the 26th Regiment of Foot. Dur-
ing this year the magistrates were elected by a poll vote of the
burgesses; but in the succeeding year, an act of William and
Mary empowered the magistrates and council to elect themselves.
	On 4th June 1690, the Presbytery of Glasgow, considering that
" this is the first diet after the re-establishment of the Presbyterian
form of church government," directed Mr Joseph Drew to go to
Stirling, and preach to the people of Glasgow, who had been
driven there on account of the troubled state of the kingdom. On
2nd May 1695, an act was read from the  pulpits in the city, against
buying or selling things on the Sabbath, also against feeding horses


