
4		ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                         249

	other in steps, as if hewn out of the solid rock by artificial means.
	These caves can only be entered at low-tide.
	  Near the northern boundary of the parish, the continual dash-
	ing of the waves against the opposing rocks has hollowed out ho-
	rizontal chasms, which emit sounds like the report of cannon, when
	the sea is lashed into them by the violence of a northern gale.  In
	a storm, the sounds occasioned by these dark recesses are so loud
	as to be heard at the distance of many miles, and, from their re-
	semblance to the peals of ordnance, the place is called, Na gun-
	naichean, or the guns.
	  In a small cave near these recesses, there are concretions of
	stalactites, which appear on its roof in the form of cream-coloured
	icicles. At one time the water which dropped from the roof of this
	little cave formed a beautiful spar-basin below, which was about
	four feet in diameter; but people, from curiosity, demolished it, in
	order to carry pieces of it away.
 	  In some parts, gneiss is the lowest rock, and in apparent connec-
	tion with it, sandstone, greywacke slate, and common slate.  Fel-
	spar, quartz, and chlorite slate constitute another variety met
        with in some places - masses of hornblende and hornblende
	slate alternate in several parts with the prevailing rock, while
	in other places beds of chlorite slate are seen passing into blue
	argillaceous or talcaceous slate.  Beautiful specimens have been
	found of white felspar traversed by slender veins of hornblende,
	There is no red-sandstone in the parish, with the exception of
	some detached blocks on the shores of the island of Fladda,
	which are supposed by some to have been conveyed thither from
	the opposite island of Rona, by the force of some stream or cur-
	rent.  Others entertain the opinion, that red-sandstone and gneiss
	exist in beds under the sea in the vicinity of Fladda, and that the
	detached blocks just-mentioned have been thrown up from the bot-
	tom.
          Beds of common black shale make their appearance in, two or
	three places, as also calcareous strata alternating with common
	shale.  In many parts, the whole body of the rock seems to be one
	mass of petrified shells.  The same when broken exhibits distinct
	impressions of bivalves of different sizes.  The shores abound with
	stones of all sizes, which are so full of little cavities, including shells,
	that when taken up and shaken, they make a rattling noise like a
	child toy.
	  It is quite impracticable in a work of this kind to mention and
	  INVERNESS.


