
28                  CAITHNNESS-SHIRE.

A considerable degree of acuteness and shrewdness is observ-
able among the population, and scandalous offences are, seldom
beard of.  The language spoken is the common dialect of the
lowlands of Scotland.  Gaelic is not known.
Smuggling prevailed at one time to a great extent in the island
of Stroma, and its peculiar situation gave it great advantages for
that illicit trade; but, by the indefatigable exertions of the Excise,
it has within the last year or two been entirely suppressed.  As
might naturally be expected, tbe'effects of smuggling on the morals
of the inhabitants -were most pernicious; and from their being oc-
casionalIy detected by the excise, and severely fined, their worldly
circumstances were materially injured.
W.-INDUSTRY.
-49'riculture and Rural Economy.-The precise number of acres
in the parish has never been ascertained.  I should think that not
more than one-tenth has ever been in a state of cultivation.        The
amble ground may therefore be estimated at 3200 acres, and the
moorland and pasture at 28,800 acres.  The latter is in a state
of undivided common, and, from the great depth of moss that
covers the greater part of it, would be very difficult to bring it into
cultivation.  The tenants are in the habit of sending their horses,
cattleswine, and sheep during the spring,'summer, and autumn
months, to pasture on the common nearest their possessions.  Re-
cently, however, the Earl of Caithness has instituted a process
clailPing a division of the whole commons in the parish, the pre-
lude, it is to be hoped, of a better system.
Rent.-The rent of arable land is high; little of it being lower
than L. 1, and -the greater part as high as L.2., 2s. per acre.  Till of
late years, it was the practice to pay part of the rent in money, and
part in victual.  The proprietor of the lands of Freswick still re-
ceives the rent in this latter manner; but the other two proprietors
have converted the victual into money, at the rate of L. I per boll.
This has proved virtually a very great raising of rent, as none of
the tenants have, with the exception of the crop 1838, received
more than from 12s. to ISs. per boll for their victual at market.
Rate of Wages.-Farm-servants are generally hired for the
year, and receive from J-6 to L.8, with 8 bolls of oatmeal, 3 bolls
of barleyme4 and a competent quantity of potatoes, peats, and
milk.  A day, labourer's -wages are Is. 6d. in summer., and Is. in
winter.  Females employed as shearers in harvest receive L.' 1,
with half a boll of meal, and -some potatoes; and males L 11 2s -
to L 1, 59., with a boll of meal, and potatoes for the whole har-


