
      ACCOUNT OF THE UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE OF

                      ABERDEEN. *

   THERE appears to have existed in Old Aberdeen, from a very
early period, a Studium Generale, or University, attached to the
Episcopal Chapter of the See of Aberdeen.  It is said to have
been founded in 1157 by Edward, Bishop of Aberdeen, and al-
though, according to Boece, it still existed at the period when
King's College was founded, it is probable that it had in some way
ceased to answer the purposes which it must have been designed
to serve, since King James IV., in his letter to Pope Alexander
VI., requesting him to found a University in Old Aberdeen, men-
tions as the chief motive for the undertaking, the profound igno-
rance of the inhabitants of the north of Scotland, and the great
deficiency of properly educated men to fill the clerical office in that
part of his kingdom.
   Foundation of the University.-In 1494, William Elphinston,
Bishop of Aberdeen, and Chancellor of Scotland under James
III, persuaded James IV. to make the above application to the
Pope, who was then considered the only source of the universal
privileges which were desired for the projected institution, the
power of the king extending only to his own dominions, while that
of the Roman pontiff embraced the whole of Christendom.  The
result of this application was a Bull dated 10th February 1494, in-
stituting a University in Old Aberdeen or Aberdon, which was to
include every lawful faculty, namely, those of Theology, Canon
and Civil Law, Medicine, and the Liberal Arts.  Masters were
appointed to read in all the faculties, and were empowered speci-
fically to confer all the lawful degrees of Baccalaureate Master
and Doctor, in like manner as these degrees are granted in any
the most highly privileged University.  It was also provided in
this Bull, that the degrees thus conferred should carry with them
all the usual privileges and immunities that are attached to such
degrees in other Universities: and that, not only within the Uni-
versity itself, but in all other Universities, ubique terrarum, with-
out further examination of the graduates.  It is particularly men-
tioned, that the University of Aberdeen was to possess all the pri.
vileges enjoyed by those of Paris and Bologna, two of the most
highly favoured in Europe.  This Bull of institution has been

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by William Gregory, M, D., Professor of Medicine and Chemistry
in King's College, Aberdeen.


