
                          KILLEARN.                     65

114 feet high. In the former Statistical Account, they are
said, when sixty years-old, to be three feet in diameter; now when
they are upwards of 100 years, I could find only one that was 3,1/2
feet, at the height of three feet from the ground. In 1750, the
estate was sold to Mr Scott of Glasgow, whose only daughter was
married to Sir James Montgomery, Bart., Chief Baron of the Ex-
chequer. That excellent man here, as well as in his native county
of Peebles, patronized rural improvement, by feuing ground for the
village, by enclosing his whole estate with hedges, and by giving
leases generally of fifty-seven years, to enable his tenants to reap
the benefit of their outlay on their farms. The result of these leases
does not seem encouraging either to tenant or landlord. The farms
were all let at a fair rent, varying from 5s. to L. 1 per acre, and
are all arable, except one farm. During the first twenty years,
the tenants seem to have been industrious. According to the
former reporter, "they were, on the whole, doing, very well."
Now, forty years afterwards, when some of the leases have expir-
ed, and the others will expire in the course of four years,-more
than one-half of the tenants have become bankrupts, and have
been ejected : only three are wealthy, yet their houses, fences,
and lands, are behind the average rate of improvement.
  The most efficient improver in this parish, and in others with
which he was connected, was the late Mr Dunmore of Ballikin-
rain. In the end of last century, he introduced turnpike roads,
cotton manufactures, and general system of planting waste
ground. The manufacturing establishments were unfortunate, and
have been abandoned; but his other rural improvements have
been zealously followed by his son, R. D. Napier Esq. the pre-
sent proprietor. The other proprietors, in a descending series, are,
Sir Archibald Edtmonstone, Bart. of Duntreath; John Buchanan of
Carbeth; George Wilson of Auchniven; Thomas B. Buchanan
of Boquhan; William Finlay of Moss; Alexander Speirs of Cul-
creuch; William Macleroy of Glenboig ; William Edmond of
Ballochrain; the Messrs Provan & Co. of Ledlewan, and the Duke
of Montrose, --all of whom have estates rented at upwards of L.50
a year, and most of whom are resident.
  Eminent Men.--In the year 1506, George Buchanan, the poet
and historian, was born at Moss, vibout a mile south from the
church. Part of the house in which he was born, with a thatch-
ed roof resting on oak spars, remained, till 1812, when a modern
house was built on the site by the late proprietor, who made out
  STIRLING.                              E


