
           434                         RENEFREWSHIRE.

           feet of water; the length of the aqueduct, between it, and wbat
           may, be called the terminating reservoir, be computed at about six
           mile and a-half. Besides these, he proposed, if necessary, to form
           six small reservoirs in the hollows of the rising ground above the
           aqueduct, to ensure an abundant supply of water in the driest sea-
           son.
              This splendid scheme has been carried into execution, except-
           ing the formation of the western line, or branch of falls; and of
           four of the small reservoirs, found to be superfluous.  In June
           1825, " the Sbaw's Water Joint Stock Company, with a capital
           of L.31,000, was incorporated by Act of Parliament,  and in less
           than three years from that date, the grand reservoir began to send
           forth  its supply of water ; and mills for various purposes were
           erected on the line of its descent. The experience of thirteen years
           has more than realized, in one respect, the most sanguine expec-
           tations of tbe projector. During that period, there has not been
           the slightest deficiency of water-power for a single day.  It has
           been uniform and unvarying, far more so than any other power in
           use for impelling machinery."
             It maybe necessary. for the information of some of our readers,
           to explain the manner in which this water-power is made available.
             The apueduct or water-course, from the reservoir at Overton to
           its termination at a short distance from the Clyde, is one continu-
           ous mill-lead cut out of the sloping-ground between Overton and
           the river. There are no mill-dams or embankments; the plan
           does-not admit of any.  The declivity down which the water is
           conducted is more or less steep at different places. At these the
           engineer has placed his falls ready for being thrown upon the                                                    own upon the
           wheel. Between each fall, the water runs with a slight inclination                                                                 a, slight inclination  '
           dow wards; a sufficient space being left between them for the
           erection of the buildings requisite; and thus of 512 feet, the
           height of Overton reservoir, from the lower termination of the line,
           there is not a foot of fall which is not made available for the pur-
           poses of machinery, There are nineteen falls of different degrees
           of power on the eastern line, and thirteen on the plan for the
           western.'
             In computing the amount of water power obtained by this in-
           genious contrivance, let it be observed, that company h`ve at
           command, on each of the two branches of the line, a quantity of
           water, sufficient, with a fall of thirty feet, to give a power for im-
           pelling machinery, equal to that of 54 horses. Applying this






