
                              GREENOCK.                           441


     men, from 10s. to L. 1 a week, according to age and skill; women,
     7s.; boys and girls, 2s. 6d. They work ten hours a-day.
       Woollen Manufacturies.-Besides the woollen manufactories now
     in the course of being erected on the Shaw's Water Aqueduct,
     there is one already in operation for the manufacture of woollem
     yarn, in which tartans and tweelled cloths are also made. About
     25,000 stones of wool are annually converted in this manufactory
     into woollen cloth and yarn. The number of persons employed
     is 22. Wages, males, 15s.; females, 4s. weekly.
       Straw Hat Manufactory.-A straw hat manufactory (Messrs
     Muir, Connell and Co.,) gives employment to 70 hands in the
     workshop, and to 150 additional in their town houses. They
     work ten hours a day, and receive of wages, men, about L. 1; fe-
     males, working piece-work, may earn 10s. weekly. They manu-
     facture straw hats and bonnets of all sorts. Messrs J. and A.
     Muir, the former partners in this business, received from the High-
     land Society and the Institution for Encouragement of Arts and
     Manufactures, several medals and premiums for specimens of hats
     of rye-straw, grown in Scotland , in imitation of Leghorn. Messrs
     Muir and Connell employ about 1500 persons in the Orkneys in
     the making of straw-plait.
       Grain Mills.-There are four grain mills, in which upwards
     of 20 hands are employed, and from 40,000 to 50,000 bolls, of
     all kinds of grain are ground annually. One of these was ori-
     ginally built for manufacturing paddy (the Indian name for un-
     shelled rice). It was supposed that rice imported in that state
     would suffier less in the voyage and would bring a higher price,
     if freed from the husk in this country. But the speculation has
     been found to be an unprofitable one, in this town at least; and
     the machinery referred to in this paragraph is employed partly in
     the manufacture of paddy, and partly in chipping dye-wood.
     Wages, 15s. weekly.
       Breweries.-Three breweries afford employment to about 45
     persons, and manufacture L. 30,000 worth of malt liquor for
     home and foreign consumption. Wages for men, 15s. weekly;
     boys, 4s. They work eleven hours daily.
       Distillery.-A distillery affords employment to 20 persons,
     boys included; pays to the Excise L. 21,000 annually, and sells
     about L. 50,000 of malt whisky. A dairy, containing from 40
     to 50 cows is attached to the distillery, which, at the favourable
     season, yields daily from 250 to 300 Scotch pints (600 quarts)
     of milk. Wages to men, 15s. a week.



