
                           FALKIRK.                            29

two vessels of 300 tons each, and has a depth of water at spring-
tides of fourteen feet. The manufactory of sail and rope is also
carried on here, and considerable exports of these commodities
made to the colonies.
  The parish recently attached quoad sacra to the church of
Grangemouth contains, exclusive of the ground occupied by the
town and harbours, about 1035 acres Scots measure. The
policy around Kerse-House comprises about 100 of these, and
the remainder is divided into sixteen farms, giving an average
of 58 acres to each. The aspect of the parish is that of a per-
fect plain, and no part of it exceeds eight feet above the level
of the highest tides. With the exception of some plantations
around Kerse-House, and a few trees at the farm-steadings, the
district is totally destitute of wood, for the growth of which, from
the unkindly nature of the subsoil, it is but indifferently adapted.
The soil, to the depth of from 6 to 12 inches, is exceedingly
uniform in its character, consisting of a rich and stiff alluvial clay
intermixed with a very small proportion of fine white sand. Its
quality, however, is considerably affected by the nature of the sub-
soil, which consists, to the depth of from 11/2 to 3 feet, of very
hard and retentive ferruginous clay or till, which, when not broken
up by the spade, is very slowly pervious to water. This is suc-
ceeded at a depth, varying from 11/2 to 4 feet, by a layer of a few
inches of shell's interspersed with sand, underneath which is a bed
of blue clay or till, in which the remains of larger marine animals
have occasionally been found.
   The town of Grangemouth is three miles from Falkirk, of
which parish it forms a part. The distance made the want of a
church and burial-ground to be much felt. So far back as 1814,
L.750 were subscribed for the purpose of erecting a place of wor-
ship. The proposal was ultimately dropped, from a want of sup-
port on the part of the parish incumbent, whose church politics
were opposed to the erection of chapels of ease. In 1827 the at-
tempt was renewed, but also proved unsuccessful. No stated pro-
vision was made for the spiritual instruction of the town, until 1837.
In that year, the late Earl of Zetland, from a due regard for the
spiritual interest of the district, erected a substantial and commo-
dious church.  The edifice is of the Norman style of architecture,
similar to that,of Kerse House. from which'it is not far situated.
Accommodation is afforded for 700 sitters, the front gallery being
reserved by the Noble founder for his family and dependents. No


