
       			   CADDER.                             399

likely to be one of those who would be selected to bear up the
Bishop's tail.
	Extent, Boundaries.--Cadder extends fully 14 miles in length,
from the rivulet that divides the lands of Gartinqueen in Cadder
from the lands of Ramone in New Monkland, to the river Kelvin,
which separates Cadder from New Kilpatrick, directly opposite to
the splendid mansion of J. C. Colquhoun, Esq. of Killermont. It
averages fully 4 miles in breadth. Its figure is oblong. It is
bounded on the north by Campsie and Kirkintilloch; on the east
by the New Monkland; on the south by the Old Monkland and
Barony; and on the west by New Kilpatrick and Baldernock. It
lies on the northern extremity of the county of Lanark, adjoining
to the counties of Dunbarton and Stirling. Its nearest part reach-
es within three miles of the city of Glasgow, and no part of it is
distant from that city above eight miles. It extends within the
eighth part of a mile from the town of Kirkintilloch, and about four
miles from the town of Kilsyth, Cumbernauld, and Airdrie.
	Topographical Appearances.--The surface of the parish presents
a series of undulations, from the Kelvin, which bounds it on the
west and north, to the parishes of Barony and Old Monkland.
	From the impervious nature of the soil, the greater part of which
is the stiffest till, and the quantity of rain exceeding the average
that is alleged to fall; from the sponginess of the numerous and
large mosses, and the many lochs that stud its surface; and from
other circumstances--the atmosphere might be supposed to be
saturated with moisture, and to be considerably deleterious; yet we
have no local diseases, and in no part of Scotland will the inhabi-
tants be found more healthful.
	In 1827 dysentery prevailed to a great extent, and many both
young and old were cut off. Some of the young, unable to take
any sustenance, died in a few days, and some of the middle aged
lingered for more than a year, till the intestines were completely
excoriated.
	Hydrography.--From the tilly nature of our soil, we have few
good springs. To the Gateside well, close on the south side of
the ancient road from Edinburgh to Glasgow, the minister has
still free ish and entry. On the south side of the road from Auch-
inloch to Glasgow, there is still the Cockplay well, over which many
proprietors and feuars have a servitude. The well on the farm
of Auchinleck by Robroyston burn, is common ta all the farmers
round, and has supplied the wants of many churns. The wells


