
			     BEITH.			        593

conviviality. There is still a fair in July called the Cadgers' Race,
in which the carters ride in procession through the town. In the
van the oldest cadger or carter rides, having a string of bells round
the horse's neck. The horse which gains the race has the honour
of returning from the race course bearing the bells, and its owner
retains the custody of them till next year. For some years, the far-
mers of the parish joined in this procession, on which occasions
there was an imposing exhibition of excellent horses; but they
have not done so for many years, and this remnant of ancient cus-
tom has dwindled away to comparative insignificance.
	Villages.--Above a mile to the east of the town, there is a
village called Gateside, where there are 150 inhabitants; and at
Northbar and Burnhouse, on the road to Kilmarnock, two villages
are now forming.
	Means of Communication.--There is a daily coach from Ar-
drossan to Glasgow, which passes through Beith in the morning
and returns in the evening. There are two carriers three times
a-week to Paisley; two twice a-week to Glasgow; two weekly to
Kilmarnock; two to Greenock; one to Saltcoats'; and one to
Largs. The post-office communications are very advantageous
There are two arrivals and departures daily, and a free delivery of
letters twice a-day, and a penny-post daily to the neighbouring
towns of Dalry, Kilbirnie and Lochwinnoch.
	Banks.--There are four branches of Banks, the Commercial
Bank of Scotland, the Glasgow Union, the British Linen Com-
pany, and the Paisley Commercial.
	Eccelesiastical History.--The church of Beith was originally a
chapel planted by the monastery of Kilwinning. The monks en-
joyed the tithes and revenues, and found a curate to do the duty.
At the Reformation the tithes of Beith produced yearly 169 bolls
and 2 pecks of meal, 9 bolls, 3 firlots, and 2 pecks of bear, and
L. 43, 5s. Scots in money, for a part of the tithes which had been
let on lease. About the period of the Reformation, the Abbot
and Chapter feued out the lands in the barony for small feu-
duties. These passed with the other temporalities of the Church
to Hugh fifth Earl of Eglinton, who was created Lord of Erection
of the monastry.
	The first minister of whom, we have any, notice after the Re-
formation, is Thomas Boyd, who was Reader there in 1573.
His stipend was first L. 20, afterwards L. 25, "with the kirk-land,
to be payit out of the third of Kiliwyunyng for payment thairof

AYR.                                   Pp


