
			    FORDOUN.                                    83

	"Dr Beattie was for several years' scboolmaster at Fordoun, before
he removed to Aberdeen. At Fordoun, many of his smaller poems
were composed. See an excellent life of Dr Beattie, drawn up by
the late highly distinguished and most benevolent Sir William
Forbes, Bart. of Pitsligo."
	Professor Beattie, born at Fordoun 16th April 1767, son of
David Beattie, elder brother of Dr James Beattie, author of the
Minstrel,--was educated at the school of Laurencekirk, and
entered Marischal College, Aberdeen, November 1780, and be-
came A. M. in April 1784. He studied theology till 1787-8, when
he taught the classical department of the second class in Marischal
College, as assistant to Dr George Skene ; and was appointed Pro-
fessor of Civil and Natural History in that College, and inducted 22d
October 1788. Professor Beattie taught twenty-one sessions with
great applause, and was a most effective and enthusiastic teacher,
to whom good pupils were greatly attached. He died on Thursday
4th October 1810. A monument was erected to his memory, in
1813, by a subscription among his pupils.
	Alexander Crombie, Esq. of Phesdo, one of the eminent cha-
racters of whom this parish can boast, is mentioned particularly
afterwards.
        Land-owners.--The land-owners or proprietors in this parish
are, The Earl of Kintore ; Viscount Arbuthnott; Sir John Stuart
Forbes of Pitsligo and Fettercairn, Baronet;  *Dr Crombie of
Phesdo; Mr Burnett of Monboddo ; Mr Mitchell Nicolson of
Glenbervie: Mr Gammel of Drumtochty; Mr Forbes of Castle-
ton; Mr Carnegie of Redhall; Mr Arnott of Leithfield; and Mr
Kinloch of Kair. The feuars of Auchinblae hold of Lord Kintore
and Mr Burnett of Monboddo.
	Parochial Reqisters.--The earliest entry in the baptism regis-
ter is dated June 4, 1693; in the session-register, September 9,
1747. The parish register have been regularly kept since then.
         Antiquities.  +--" On the farm of Castleton of Kincardine, be-
longing to Sir John Stuart Forbes of Pitslig, and Fettercaira,
Bart., stand the ruins of the Castle or Royal Palace of Kincar-
dine. This castle either gave its name to the country or took its
name from the county in which it is placed. There are no re-
cords stating the period when this castle was built, or when it was
last ecupied. It was a royal palace previous to the death of

<FOOTNOTE>Author of Gynnasium, Natural Theology, &c.  Notioe by Dr Leslie.


