

                            MINTO.                         367

kirk in 1754, afterwards for Roxburgbshire in 1765, and became
also Treasurer of the Navy.  He died in 1777, of a pulmonary com-
plaint, at Marseilles. He possessed an amiable and highly culti-
vated mind, and, in the midst of his other pursuits, found leisure
for those of literature, favourable evidence of which is preserved
in the beautiful pastoral song,--" My sheep I neglected, I broke
my sheep-hooki," published in the notes to the Lay of the Last
Minstrel, and in the draught of a letter to David Hume, the me-
taphysician, printed along with the first Dissertation to thd new
Encyclopedia Britannica by Dugald Stewart, and by that com-
petent judge, held to be remarkable for " sound philosophy and
purity of English style." The fourth Sir Gilbert, father of the
present Earl, was distinguished by eminent talents for public bu-
siness, as is shewn in the number of high offices to which he was
successively called.  In 1793, he was appointed Governor of
Toulon, Viceroy of Corsica in 1794, Minister Plenipotentiary at
Vienna in 1799, President of the Board of Control in 1806, and
Governor General of India in 1807.  He was created Baron
Minto, and admitted to the peerage in 1797, and raised to the rank
of an Earl in 1812, with the additional title of Viscount Melgund;
for his eminent services in the East, be also received the thanks of
both Houses of Parliament.  He died soon after his return from
India, on his way to Scotland in 1814, aged sixty-tbree years.
Though much of his time was spent abroad, the improvements of
the paternal estate were continued by Lady Minto, daughter of
Sir George Amyand, whom he married a few weeks before his fa-
ther's death. Besides extensive additions to the plantations, the
present House of Minto was built, being finished in 1814.  The
present Earl, born in 1782, and married 1806 to Miss Brydone,
daughter of Patrick Brydone, Esq. author of the Tour in Sicily,
and maternal grand-daughter of Principal Robertson, has also been
actively employed in political life.  He early represented his native.
county in Parliament, has since held the appointment of Minister
Plenipotentiary to the Court of Berlin, and at present fills the of-
fice of First Lord of the Admiralty.
    Hassendean-Though now, in a considerable part, incorporated
with Minto a brief notice may here be given separately of Has-
sendean.  Sir Walter Scott, in a note to the Lay of the Last,
Minstrel, states that Hassendean is a corruption from Hazeldean;
and Leyden, in the Scenes of Infancy, has adopted the latter spel-
ling, but for this there is not the slightest authority, either in tra-


