
                             DYSART.                              137

cellent. As farm rents are generally paid partly in grain, mid part-
ly in money, it is difficult to say precisely what is the actual rent
of arable land. It varies from L. 1, 5s. to L. 6, 6s. The average of
the whole, however, as nearly as can be calculated, is about L. 2, 5s.
or L. 2, 6s. per acre.
  Rent of Land.-The usual rent of grazing an ox or cow for
the season is L. 4, and of grazing a ewe or full-grown sheep about
16s. yearly.
  Improvements.-It is generally admitted that in no part of Fife-
shire have greater improvements been made in agriculture than in
this parish. Much land formerly waste has been reclaimed drain-
ed,and embanked. The farm-buildings are generally in the high-
est order, being mostly all new within these few years. The system
of husbandry pursued is that which has been most generally ap-
proved of by those qualified to judge. The general duration of leases
is nineteen years; and although there is no public association in the
parish for the encouragement of agriculture, great attention has
been paid to the improvement of farm stock.
  As the farms are all under the plough, there are few sheep in
the parish.The breeds of cattle generally preferred are the Fife,
Ayrshire,and Teeswater breeds. Great attention has also been
paid to the rearing of horses.
  The estates on which the above-mentioned improvements have
chiefly taken place, are those belonging to Mr Fergus of Strathore
and the Earl of Rossyln. On these estates as well as throughout
the parish, the leases are for nineteen years, except the burgh rood4
or acre land, which is let from year to year.
  At the time the leases were granted, they were reckoned favour-
able to the tenants; but from the low prices of grain of late years,
the tenants complain that they are unable to pay their stipulated
rents.
  Wheat, barley, oats, potatoes, hay, and turnip are raised in large
quantities and in regular rotation; but the exact amount of raw
produce raised in the parish could not easily be ascertained.
  Manufactures.-About forty years ago, there were about 100,
smiths employed in the manufacture of nails. It is said, that about
12,000,000 of nails were made by this number of men, and that
their value was not less than L. 2000. These were generally sold
in Edinburgh and Glasgow, as well as in all the principal towns
of the north of Scotland; and a large proportion of them were used
for ship-building. This branch of nail manufacture flourished ex-


